Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20492-BIH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.1 MILLION (US$12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND BERZEGOVINA
FOR A
MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
PROJECT
May 24, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 8, 2000)
Currency Unit = Convertible Mark (KM)
KM 1 =DEM 1
DEM 1 = US$ 0.5042
US$ 1 = DEM 1.9833
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH          Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CS           Consultant Services
ECA          Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN        Europe and Central Asia Region Infrastructure
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
ERR          Economic Rate of Retum
EUAM         European Union Administration of Mostar
FMS          Financial Management System
IAS          International Accounting Standards
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IFAC         International Federation of Accountants
MWSU         Mostar Water Supply and Sewerage Utility
NBF          Not Bank Financed
NIS          Network Information System
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
NPV          Net Present Value
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PIT          Project Implementation Team
PMR          Project Management Reports
QBS          Quality Based Selection
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
USAID        United States Agency for International and Development
UFW          Unaccounted-for Water
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Clristiaan J. Poortman, ECC04
Sector Manager/Director:    Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Walter Stottmann, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Seema Manghee, ECSIN



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     11
3. Benefits and target population                                                    11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          21
2. Financial                                                                         22
3. Technical                                                                         24
4. Institutional                                                                     25
5. Environment                                                                       26
6. Social                                                                            28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                3 1
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    32
2. Critical risks                                                                    32
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    33



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           34
2. Other                                                                             34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         36
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        44
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                            45
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              47
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           68
Annex 11: Review of Financial Management Arrangements                                   70
MAP(S)
IBRD 30888



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: May 24, 2000                                 Team Leader: Seema Manghee
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman   Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Project ID: P057951                                Sector(s): WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
OI Loan        ER Credit        LI Grant        OI Guarantee    LI Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $12.00
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
Financin  Plan:    Source                                    Local         Forein          - Total
GOVERNMENT                                                      1.38            0.00          1.38
IDA                                                             4.40            7.60         12.00
Total:                                                          5.78            7.60         13.38
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Responsible agency: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE UTILITY
Mostar Water Supply and Sewerage Utility
Address: 106 Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Mile Pulic/Mr. Mirsad Huseingic
Tel: 387 88 318 329                Fax: 387 88 315 016                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYWUS$M):
FY           2001        2Q02         2003        2004        2005
Annual     2.5           2.6          4.0         2.5         0.4
Cumulative     2.5           5.1         9.1        11.6        12.0
Project implementation period: FY2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
XS PAD F-n; R. MWd, 200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Prior to the war, a single Mostar Water Supply and Sewerage utility served the entire city of Mostar. As a
result of the war, the utility was split into two parts: the Eastern Utility serving the Bosniac part of the city
and the Western Utility serving the Croat part. The division of the utility and war damage resulted in
substantial inefficiencies in management and operations.
Mostar (population 110,000), was a prosperous city in the pre-war years and the Mostar water utility was
a profitable enterprise. After the war, the European Union Administration of Mostar (EUAM) and bilateral
aid agencies assisted in the partial reconstruction of the potable water supply and sewerage services. This
assistance helped restore basic water services, but did not address pervasive network damage and deferred
maintenance that has led to the current 60-80% physical losses. Today, the infrastructure of the water
utilities is severely in need of rehabilitation. In addition, their financial situation is weak. Therefore, for
operational and financial reasons, and with strong guidance and support from the Bank during project
preparation, the two utilities have recently reunited into one company. In the remainder of this document,
the merged utility will be referred to as the Mostar Water Supply and Sewerage Utility (MWSU).
The proposed water project is the second World Bank project in Mostar. This project would follow up on
the Mostar Cultural Heritage Project that aims to improve the climate of reconciliation through
reaffirmation of the common cultural heritage in Mostar. Both projects, through different sectors, attempt
to tackle one of the most delicate issues of post-war reconstruction: promoting a lasting peace, which is
obviously a prerequisite for any type of sustainable development. The merger of the two utilities would
have a dual peace and developmental objective. This would create an impact beyond improving water and
wastewater services, by being a symbol of reconciliation that could encourage similar initiatives in other
sectors. Along with other post conflict fund-assisted projects in Europe and Central Asia (ECA) designed
to promote inter-ethnic cooperation, this project would make an important contribution to the "good
practices" body of knowledge currently being developed Bank-wide to complement the new Operational
Program on Development Assistance and Conflict.
The project seeks to support a series of measures allowing for incremental improvement of the management
and performance of the utility. This approach is pragmatic - first for the utility to be reunited, then to
establish a modern planning and management system, undertake system rehabilitation and carry out major
improvements in financial management and bill collection. Such a process would result in a modernized
and strengthened utility, which in the future could lead to further measures including private sector
participation and expanded provision of wastewater services.
The two major objectives of the project are: (i) to create a unified water supply and sanitation utility for the-
city of Mostar; and (ii) to improve service. The project also seeks to achieve progress by including the
following sectoral development objectives: (a) develop the merged utility into an efficiently managed and
commercially operated entity that will enjoy greater autonomy to conduct its operations; (b) provide water
for selected poor and non-served refugee areas on the periphery of the city; (c) assist the merged utility to
become financially viable by improving billing and collections through the introduction of better
commercial practices and by harmonizing tariffs between the Eastern and Western parts of the city; (d)
improve the quality and reliability of water service to the population of Mostar on both sides of the river;
and (e) improve the efficiency of the water supply system by reducing water wastage and addressing
serious network leakage problems and hydraulic inefficiencies.
- 2 -



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The most important indicator of project success would be the emergence of a single and increasingly well
managed and operated water and wastewater utility. Achievements and progress of the project will be
measured through the following key performance indicators:
*   Reunification/merger: consolidate accounts; fully integrate operations between the Eastern and
Western operating districts; develop common employment conditions; and harmonize tariff
structure and level.
*   InstitutionaUlcommercial: improve utility autonomy; establish a customer service bureau;
conduct satisfaction surveys; improve collections; disconnect non-payers; regularize illegal
connections; and continue staff freeze.
*   Financial: increase billing and collections; reduce accounts receivable and arrears; increase net
internal cash generation; and reduce operating costs through efficiency of operations.
*   Technicalloperational: reduce water losses; reduce energy consumption per unit of water
produced; reduce response time for repairs; reduce outages; and achieve national water quality
standards.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS Document Report No. 20301 -BIH                    Date of latest CAS
discussion: 05/18/2000
The Bosnia CAS highlights the potential of Bank projects to foster reintegration of divided communities in
order to consolidate the peace process and develop conditions for sustainable growth. The proposed project
responds directly to that goal by reintegrating the two ethnically divided Mostar water utilities into one
single and more efficient utility. Mostar is one of the few inter-ethnic communities left in Bosnia and has
very high domestic and international visibility. Reunification of a key network service--water supply and
sanitation--across the current ethnic boundaries in Mostar would not only encourage other sectors in the
city to follow suit, but could have a spillover effect to other Bosnian cities. Mostar could become a symbol
for inter-ethnic reconciliation and cooperation that could serve as a regional example.
The sector-related CAS goal is to help Bosnia address municipal, environmental and public utility problems
and contribute to enhancing capacity in these areas, specifically by supporting the adoption of sound utility
practices and pricing policies and the institutional development and commercialization of these utilities.
This project would speed utility reform and strengthening by: (a) reestablishing a single water utility, with
potentially significant savings and efficiency increases over present arrangements and helping to strengthen
its management; (b) reintroducing and enforcing the principles of cost recovery and financial viability; and
(c) demonstrating the necessity and benefits of efficient utility operation and investment choices based on
priority and least-cost principles. The proposed project thus serves two important CAS goals. Substantial
interest has been expressed by the donor community in providing assistance to various sectors in Mostar if
the proposed project can successfully manage to permanently reintegrate divided institutions.
-3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
There are a number of sector issues faced by municipal water supply companies throughout the Federation.
These issues also apply to MWSU and are described below:
Institutional framework
The typical relationship between municipalities and water utilities in Bosnia is that the utility reports to a
Management Board appointed by the municipality. Municipal control tends to be significant, which
adversely affects the autonomy and operation of these utilities. In an effort to limit municipal intervention,
which often has objectives that do not agree with the business objectives of the utilities, the medium-term
strategy is to strengthen the institutional framework for utilities as legally separate, municipally-owned
enterprises that operate autonomously and on a commercial basis.
Financial viability
The utilities have poor cash flow and face as a result severe financial difficulties. The major problem is
the low collection rates, averaging often less than 50% of billings, although tariffs often also need to be
increased.  Achieving increased collection rates is one of the highest priorities for all utilities. The
military, hospitals, schools and industry are among the largest consumers, yet they rarely pay the utilities
for services received. The collection problems are compounded by such factors as: a high percentage of
non-functioning or unreliable meters; a large number of multi-family apartments with a single meter; the
difficulty of apportioning costs to families in such apartments because of a lack of reliable information on
the number of persons per family; and a regulatory or supervisory prohibition against shutting off a major
consumer's water supply. The aim is to provide adequate budgets to Government departments and entities
and to seek to enforce payment discipline, but this is constrained by the overall economic situation and
resulting budget deficits. In the short run, this situation can only be remedied in individual cases, by
insisting on up-front payment of part of the arrears of official entities and payment of part or all of the
remaining arrears and current bills in accordance with a strictly monitored schedule thereafter.
Consumer participation
In the absence of budget subsidies, the only way to provide the utilities with resources for maintenance,
operations and capital investments is to seek to collect bills from all beneficiaries of their services. Prior to
the war, collection rates were close to 100%. Now, however, many consumers are in the habit of avoiding
paying for water services. Hence, special emphasis needs to be placed on informing the consumers through
publicity campaigns and the media of the important relationship between the quality of service and payment
for these services.
Existing systems
Water supply service is generally adequate, as most areas have in principle 24 hour service. However,
service interruptions take place with relatively high frequency. In addition to the war damage, the major
problems are lack of efficiency and maintenance of the systems. During the pre-war years, investment and
resource allocation policies did not pay sufficient attention to maintenance and operation, since preference
was given to new construction and capacity expansion.
-4 -



Physical losses
Network physical losses nationwide range from 50-70% and are as high as 80% in Mostar. Water wastage
throughout the distribution system exacerbates the utility's inefficiencies and adversely affects cost of
production and results in over consumption of water. Before spending scarce resources on new facilities
and capacity expansion, better use should be made of existing systems by: (a) reducing network leakage
through a combination of reducing pressure, identifying and fixing leaks (including cutting off illegal
connections) and replacing or rehabilitating pipes and house connections; (b) improving the hydraulic
efficiency of pipe networks; and (c) improving maintenance to increase the life of the assets.
Human resources capacity
Personnel working in the water sector in Bosnia are skilled technical professionals who succeed in keeping
often dilapidated facilities running despite insufficient funding for repairs and replacements. However, they
tend to lack expertise in modern methods of utility management and operations, planning and engineering,
commercial management and finance. These skills should be improved by encouraging the sector
community to learn about international experience and best practice and adapting it to local conditions.
Utilizing international utility advisors would be the fastest and most efficient way to improve utility
management and operations. Skills should also be improved through participation in international
seminars, conferences and tours and by reorienting training programs to include modern sector management
methods and practices. Currently, United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is
implementing a successful technical assistance program nationwide to train utility technical and financial
managers in the latest commercial and financial practices. This program has been received favorably and
attendance at the training seminars is over 90%.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Creating and implementing the institutional framework for unification
One of the primary goals of the project is to create and implement a new institutional framework which
established a single Mostar Water Supply and Sewerage Utility as a legally independent,
municipally-owned enterprise that is operated with substantial autonomy and on a commercial basis.
The Mayor, Deputy Mayor, water utility management, city administration officials representing both the
Croat and Bosniac communities and Government officials formally supported the project and its objectives
and in particular, the merger of the two utilities. During the first preparation mission in November, 1998,
the Bank's project team informed the local authorities that the Bank's involvement depended on continued
genuine comnnitment to the merger. Prior to starting full project preparation a letter was received on
December 17, 1998 signed by the Mayors, the Management of the two water utilities and the City
hifrastructure departments confirming their support of integration of the two water companies. On this
basis and the cooperation between the two utilities, the Bank continued project preparation.
The Decision to enact the Statute and legal registration of the utilities was signed on April 14, 2000 and
backed by all members of the Mostar Town Council. The Town Council voted to merge the utilities on
April 26, 2000 which paved the way towards reunification and the creation of the MWSU.
- 5 -



A six person Management Board of the utility has been established, composed of professionals representing
various sectors from Mostar. The Board is currently drafting a Book of Regulations on its mandate. Board
meetings are being held on weekly basis until September 2000, to facilitate the reorganization transition.
The Board will report to the Town Council and its members serve term appointments.
While the Statute provides MWSU management in principle with an adequate level of autonomy and
introduces a workable regulatory structure, the main vehicle laying down mutual obligations is the
perfonnance contract between the utility and the Town Council. The performance contract sets down the
rules for making available quality services to customers and for an efficient management of the utility and
its assets, funded through the setting and collection of cost recovering tariffs. The contract includes
satisfactory provisions on the following major aspects: policies regarding tariff setting; disconnection
policy for non-payers; the Town Councirs role with regard to providing subsidies for the low income
groups unable to pay their water bills; the Town Council's responsibility for paying bills of entities that are
on its budget such as schools, hospitals and its own agencies; the autonomy of MWSU in day-to-day
operations; and improvement of efficiency in management and operations.
Reaching financial viability
Currently, MWSU does not generate enough revenue to cover maintenance and operating costs and to
provide adequate service to consumers. Hence, an important objective of the project is to enable MWSU to
achieve financial viability by generating sufficient fimds from operations to cover maintenance and
operating costs and debt service payments and to make a contribution to investments.
Billing on the Western side has reached close to 100% due to the computerization of the former Westem
utility's billing system that was completed in November, 1999. The former Eastern utility is system in the
process of being computerized and this will result in 100% billing by 2001.
It is important to note that MWSU is now making a major effort to improve collections and a large share of
management's time is spent on this task. The Financial Co-ordinator, appointed jointly by the Eastern and
Western Managers provides monthly financial status reports. Collection rates for households have
continued to improve considerably since the war and are averaging 55%. For the month of February 2000,
collections shot up to 68% for industry and 62% for residential customers on the Eastern side; and 48% for
industry and 79% for residential users on the Western side.
Large amounts of accounts receivable have accumulated, and it is apparent that the large users (hospitals,
military, state owned factories and other public users) are not paying for water supply services. Under the
current economic situation, with the majority of the factories closed, it is unlikely that full settlement is
feasible. Total accumulated arrears from these consumer categories, after write-off of bad debts, were
about Konvertible Mark (KM) 3.1 million as of the end of 1999.
The utilities have jointly provided an analysis of the arrears of the large users - amount, age and nature.
There are a total of twenty large users and 6 of the most blatant non-payers have been taken to court.
Discussions are being held with the army and municipalities to agree on a collection plan that is realistic
and acceptable to MWSU. A contract is being discussed between the Town Co-uncil and the Ministry of
Defense to address the arrears of the army. The remaining large users that are in arrears have signed
memoranda of understanding, which allow them partial payments on arrears and a write-off of the
remainder. While every effort will be made to collect arrears, it is unrealistic to expect that much of this
will be collected. Therefore, the focus of MWSUs collection policy will be on receiving payments for
future bills. The collection policy agreed with MSWUJ and set out in the performance contract calls for
- 6 -



prompt disconnection for non-payment except for the army and hospitals; payment of public institutions'
bills by the Town Council; improvement of commercial systems and practices by the end of 2001 and
adoption of an aggressive collection policy with specific targets for each year to reach a minimum of bill
collection target of 75% by 2003.
Improving the efficiency of the utility
Prior to the war, the Mostar Water and Sewerage utility was a reasonably well managed and operated
utility. Even then, however, there was room for iInprovements in managerial, administrative, commercial
and operational practices. The division of the utilities exacerbated these inefficiencies. Physical losses
have risen to as high as 80% of production.
Improving utility management, network operations, rehabilitation, repair and demand management to
reduce excessive water consumption and wastage, and improving the efficiency of the water supply system
are matters of high priority to reduce operating costs. Revitalizing commercial policies, systems and
practices is urgently needed for the financial viability of the utility. MWSU has quite capable and
motivated managers and staff who do an admirable job of keeping services functioning under very difficult
conditions. However, to reach project efficiency objectives, extemal assistance will be needed from utility
management and operations specialists in the following areas: management, administration, finance,
conmmercial operations and network rehabilitation.  This technical assistance would be provided by a
qualified Technical Advisor, and financed under the technical assistance component of the Credit. MWSU
will work closely with the Technical Advisor to reduce leaks and improve its overall efficiency.
Choice of priority investments
The choice of investment priorities has been discussed extensively with the local authorities during project
preparation. The initial project financing sought by the Mostar authorities was for constructing a costly
wastewater scheme consisting of interceptors on both sides of the Neretva River and a wastewater
treatment plant with secondary treatment.  However, extensive analysis revealed that institutional
strengthening and focusing on reducing and eliminating inefficiencies in the water supply system would
provide greater benefits than those associated with the originally proposed wastewater scheme. It was
agreed that investments in improving the efficiency of the water supply system, rehabilitate and repaii parts
of the sewer network and strengthening the management and operations of MWSU are the highest priority.
Water, Sewerage Network Rehabilitation Investment and Institutional Strengthening Funds
The project also contains priority investments for the first year of project implementation that are already
defined and fully prepared, withi contracts ready to be signed at Credit effectiveness. These initial
investments comprise the priority investments (e.g., purchase of meters, rehabilitation of a pumping station)
whose justification was clearly established during project preparation and which are without prejudice to
the selection of future investnents. The rehabilitation of the 600mm pipeline from Radoblje spring,
however, will be subject to additional financial and economnic analysis similar to other proposed
investments under the Investnent Fund.
The remainder of the investments to improve the operations of the water supply and sewer networks will be
defined and implemented with the assistance of the Technical Advisor. Based on extensive analysis during
project preparation, broad objectives of future investments were defined. During project implementation,
MWSU management and the Technical Advisor will work closely together to plan, design and implement
- 7 -



investments from the network rehabilitation and sewerage Investment Funds. The priority would be to fund
cost-effective investments that would maximize system efficiency. Part of the IDA Credit proceeds will be
made available through these Funds. MWSU would work jointly with the Technical Advisor starting from
data generation and assessment through investment identification and implementation. Through this
process, the Technical Advisor would more rapidly obtain the specific local knowledge to effectively advise
on cost-effective and appropriate investment choices, which would also facilitate client buy-in and transfer
of knowledge.
- 8-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Comoonent A: Priority Investments for Water SuiPIV Rehabilitation and Improvement
This component includes high priority investments that are economically justified and already prepared as
follows:
a. installation of production meters on sources currently not metered;
b. security of supply and protection zone for four of the five existing water sources;
c. replacement of pipes with known high volume leaks and beyond simple repairs;
d. rehabilitation of the 600mm supply main from the existing Radobolja spring source to the
existing Glavica reservoir;
e. construction of pump stations to serve the communities of Bijelo Polje and Orlac;
f. purchase of leak detection and flow measurement instruments for the outfitting of a water
distribution network management unit; and
g. purchase of computers and related equipment in support of project implementation.
Component B: Water Distribution Network Rehabilitation and Improvement Fund
Least-cost priority investments for source and consumption metering, leak detection and repair, network
rehabilitation and optimization, pressure zoning and equipment for operations.
The program has been broadly defined in a report by Bristol Water Services, dated March 2000, which
assessed the performance of the water supply network focusing on leakage and which recommended a
broad investment strategy for system improvement. Guided by this assessment, the Technical Advisor will
conduct additional measurements and analysis and identify further least cost priority investments.
Component C: Sewerage Network Rehabilitation Fund
Urgent rehabilitation and repair of selected sewers and sewer maintenance equipment and pipe replacement.
Investment needs have been broadly defined by MWSU. Guided by this assessment, the Technical Advisor
will conduct additional analysis and identify further least cost priority investments.
Comnonent D: Institutional Strenathenin2 Fund
a. Equipment and materials, software, office and computer equipment in support of the institutional
strengthening and capacity building program; and
b. Training of MWSU personnel based on a needs assessment to be prepared by the Technical
Advisor.
-9-



Component E: Technical Advisor/Enmineerini Services
a. Assistance to MWSU in the identification, planning, design and implementation of programs
aimed at: (i) improving the operational performance of Mostar's water supply system and
identifying specific investments to be funded under Component B; (ii) addressing the most urgent
repair and rehabilitation needs of Mostar's sewer system and identifying specific investments to be
funded under Component C; and (iii) strengthening of MSWU's financial, commercial and
administrative operations through the introduction and/or upgrade of computerized systems and
procedures for connection management, consumption metering, consumer services, billing and
collections and identifying specific investments to be funded under Component D.
b. Engineering services for the preparation of final designs and bidding documents, assistance with
procurement and supervision of construction for investments under components B, C and D.
Component F: Operating Expenditures
This component would finance critical operating expenditures for a two year period immediately following
the merger. Expenditures eligible for financing under this category would comprise the costs of energy,
expendable supplies and materials. In addition, the costs of external audits would also be financed from
this category.
The estimated costs of these components are summarized in the table below.
1,s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ndctv                                   Bak C,       ofSl0   t o   g}00  >!>,W0,,ii
A. Priority Investments           Urban Water          3.68      27.5       3.27      27.2
Supply
B. Water Distribution Network     Urban Water          4.72      35.3      4.28       35.7
Rehabilitation and Improvement Fund   Supply
C. Sewerage Network Rehabilitation    Sewerage         0.50       3.7       0.40       3.3
Fund
D. Institutional Strengthening Fund  Institutional     1.50       11.2      1.50      12.5
Development
E. Technical Advisor/Engineering  Institutional        1.55       11.6      1.55      12.9
Services                          Development
F. Operating Expenditures         Urban Water          1.43       10.7      1.00       8.3
Supply
Total Project Costs                   13.38      100.0     12.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   13.38      100.0     12.00      100.0
Note: The project is exemptfrom duties and taxes.
- 10 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The main policy and institutional reforms sought by the project are to: (a) reunite the formerly separated
utilities into one the Mostar Water and Sewerage Utility within a new institutional framework as a single
enterprise that operates as autonomously as possible, based on commercial principles and operating with
improved efficiency and consumer orientation; (b) assist the merged utility to become financially viable and
eventually achieve cost recovery through improvements in billing, collections and tariff structure and level;
and (c) improve the management of MWSU through training and efficiency improvements and cost
effective allocation of investment resources.
3. Benefits and target population:
The rehabilitation of services would restore piped water service to suburban areas virtually destroyed
during the war. Families forced out at that time have been slowly returning, but infrastructure restoration
has lagged population return. Water supply in those areas has been reduced to standpipes, rainwater
collection, and some trucked supply. The existing networks have been out of service for several years and
must be thoroughly evaluated, damaged pipe and valves replaced, manholes and service connections
restored, meters installed, and pipes flushed. Under the project, in West Mostar, the refugee areas of
Rastani and Rodoc will have service restored as well as the affected refugee areas of Blagaj-Dracevica and
Gnojcice on the Eastern side. People returning to these areas typically suffered much greater losses than
the average citizen during the war and now belong to the poorest segments of Mostar's population.
The remaining investments to be financed under the project would target system inefficiencies, particularly
the massive water losses and resulting high operating costs. The project would actively support, inter alia,
leak detection and repair, energy conservation, and a metering program.
Benefits of the project are also expected to result from investments in institutional strengthening. The
introduction of cost recovery principles will enable MWSU to gradually become a financially viable
institution. Under the project, it is also planned that MWSU will become more demand oriented and
consumer friendly through the establishment of a Customer Service Bureau.
Currently, there are subsidies for designated social groups that are unable to pay their utility bills. These
groups are categorized as follows: loss of salary earner due to the war; handicapped, or widow with 3 or
more children. The Performance Contract outlines a phasing out for those persons that are no longer in
need of them and commits the Town Council to financing the subsidy for these designated groups.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The proposed project would be implemented during FY 2001-2005 under the overall responsibility of the
Mostar Water and Sewerage Utility. The utility created within its organization a Project Implementing
Team (PIT) staffed by its own personnel. The PIT will be responsible for all aspects of project
implementation. It consists of a financial officer, accountant, procurement officer, procurement analyst,
translator and program assistant.
The Technical Advisor will assist MWSU with the identification and implementation of investments and
improvements in water supply and sewer network rehabilitation and operations, commercial practices and
institutional strengthening.
- 11 -



MWSU, with the assistance of the Technical Advisor, should prepare an Action Plan on planned
investments in the following components: Network Rehabilitation Water Distribution and Improvements;
Sewerage Network Rehabilitation; and Institutional Strengthening. The action plan should include a
description of the proposed investment, an estimate of project costs and expenses, economic and financial
analysis; procurement plan and an analysis of the priority of the proposed investment/expenditure in term
of its cost effectiveness and social impact. Upon approval of the Action Plan, disbursements will be
authorized for these specific categories.
On-Lending Arrangements
The project will be carried out by the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina through the Mostar Water
Supply and Sewerage Authority and the Federation would on-lend the Credit to the Mostar utility. The
Government would receive the standard IDA terms with a 10 year grace period, a final maturity of 35
years, a service charge of .75% and a commitment fee of .50%. Given the sector's characteristics and the
financial position of the utility, the onlending termns would be equal to the standard IDA terms. The foreign
exchange risk will be passed on to the utility.
Financial Management and Disbursements
The PIT will also ensure the financial management of the project (see Annex 11 for detailed financial
management arrangements). In accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and LACI requirements, a financial
management specialist reviewed the proposed  financial management systems (FMS) between
January-May, 2000 and found that the system in the utility was inadequate and does not currently satisfy
the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. One of the main objectives of the project is to
encourage the reunification of the two separate, but previously integrated, water utilities in Mostar. Since
this merger was only recently completed, substantive work on putting adequate financial management
anrangements in place can really only begin now. Therefore, the establishment of an FMS satisfactory
to the Bank, as assessed by a certified financial management specialist, will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. An action plan to produce a system that meets LACI requirements has been accepted by the
Beneficiary, including:
a.     MWSU would have suitably qualified financial officers to manage its financial accounting and
reporting. Financial officers, acceptable to the Bank, have been identified and nominated by the
utility.
b.     A "stand-alone" computerized project accounting system would be implemented by July 31, 2000.
This system will include, inter alia, an accounting and control module with the capacity to record
and retrieve, in a timely manner, all financial transactions under the project. The accounting system
will enable the utility to comply with intemationally accepted standards and will: (a) reliably record
and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the project; (b) provide reliable
financial information for managing and monitoring project activities; and (c) provide quarterly
PMRs on a timely basis. The consensus was that it would be technically possible but very time
consuming to integrate the project management reports with the accounting systems in MWSU.
Furthermore, it would also mean significant changes to the utility's software at each and every
level, which would become too expensive.
- 12 -



c.    MWSU will prepare a financial manual by July 31, 2000, which will be reviewed and approved by
the Bank to ensure that adequate procedures are in place. The Manual would cover the following
aspects: (a) flow of funds; (b) financial and accounting policies; (c) accounting system and internal
control mechanisms; (d) Chart of Accounts; (e) financial reporting (including formats of financial
management reports); (f) auditing arrangements; (g) budgeting; and (h) organization and staffing
for financial management functions.
From the financial management perspective, this project is considered as a high risk project. Potential
financial management risks: (a) inadequate internal control mechanisms in the PIT of the utility; (b) delays
in preparation of project management reports; (c) a poor accounting environment and few qualified
accountants in BiH; (d) delay in the integration of the two accounting functions; (e) financial reporting
(including formats of financial management reports); and (f) public perceptions of corruption. These risks
are considered as manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken (see annex 11 for details).
The project's financing plan, which includes the IDA credit, revenues from the utility/revenues from third
parties and the project's planned expenditures has been realistically estimated. It is expected that the
project is financially sustainable.
The audited financial statements of MWSU and the audited project financial statements will be prepared in
accordance with the fornat provided by the Bank, will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of
MWSU's fiscal year. The audited project financial statements would also include a separate opinion by the
auditor on the operation of the Special Account (disbursements made against certified statement of
expenditures or PMRs). An independent auditor acceptable to the Bank would audit the financial
statements. The utilities are using Deloitte & Touche Hungary for the audit of their financial statements
for the year ended December 31, 1999. A management letter will be provided by January 31, 2001 on
internal controls after four months of Credit effectiveness. It has been agreed that the utility will continue
to use an international accounting firm, acceptable to the Bank, to perform the annual audits of their
financial statements. The utility would need to confirm with the Bank that it has appointed an
international auditor acceptable to the World Bank, by July 31, 2000.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made based on the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure - SOEs, and direct
payments) and would be considered for conversion to the new LACI procedures once the financial
management system is operating satisfactorily. The target date for this conversion is one year after
expected Credit effectiveness. Proceeds of the Credit would be allocated in accordance with Table C,
Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, one Special Account denominated in US dollars for
MWSU. Currently, no local banks in the country can be considered adequately reliable and financially
sound. It is therefore recommended that banks outside BiH be used for this purpose.
When the financial management system is implemented, the MWSU will prepare PMRs on a quarterly
basis that would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The reports would be
used for project management purposes for tracking project progress, procurement and disbursement They
will include: (a) Financial Report, project sources and uses of funds, uses of funds by project activity,
project balance sheet, project cash withdrawals, Special Account statement, project cash forecast; (b)
Project Progress Report, output monitoring reports for contract management and unit of output by project
activity; and (c) Procurement Management Report, procurement process monitoring for goods, works and
consultants' services and contract expenditure reports for goods and works and consultants' services. The
first quarterly PMRs, for the quarter ended March 31, 2001, will be submitted to the Bank by May 15,
2001. The PMRs will be in the format agreed upon during negotiations and will follow examples given in
the Bank's LACI Implementation Handbook.
-13 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Private sector management and operation vs. technical assistance
The option of using a private operator under a management contract or lease arrangement was extensively
discussed during project preparation with MWSU. The Bank's sector strategy calls for such arrangements
as a preferred approach particularly where large efficiency gains can be achieved. However, given the
obvious sensitivity (and achievement) of the merger itself, the current political conditions in the region and
the uncertain business climate, the Bank accepted the decision of MWSU and the Mostar political
leadership not to choose a direct involvement of a foreign utility operator. It was agreed that the approach
in Mostar would be to first establish an autonomous utility which would operate according to commercial
principles, assisted by a Technical Advisor. With a full awareness of the risks in working with public
sector water agencies, a risk exacerbated by the unique politics of Mostar, the Bank agreed to these
technical assistance arrangements.
The proposed technical assistance arrangements include several features that are expected to enhance the
prospect of a successful cooperation between the Technical Advisor and the utility. These include: (a)
selection of a Technical Advisor with a solid track record in utility management and operations; (b)
thorough review of the suitability of the personnel proposed; (c) making the Technical Advisor part of the
investment decision making process by requiring his agreement on how to allocate the resources for
investments under network rehabilitation, sewerage and institutional strengthening components; (d) an
explicitly stated (and funded) obligation to provide training and capacity building; and (e) close supervision
by the Bank of both MWSU and the Technical Advisor.
Staff reduction
Despite very high staffing levels, during extensive discussions with MWSU, it has been agreed not to
pursue a policy of involuntary staff reductions. Instead, MWSU has implemented a hiring freeze and
anticipates gradual staff reductions through normal attrition. Normally, the Bank would insist on improved
labor efficiency as a condition of lending. However, Mostar suffers from extremely high unemployment
rates and has few alternative employment opportunities. Reintegration of the utilities would face fierce
labor, and associated political, resistance if job cuts were part of the program. That would be a challenge
worth facing in a more stable social and political environment, but would threaten the overriding
reintegration goal in Mostar.
Construction activities
Currently, MWSU operates a construction unit that earns revenues that partly offset the cost of
maintaining excess labor. The construction unit, especially after the war, was able to win overpriced
contracts from donors. Today, donors are not involved in Mostar and as a matter of policy do not allow
public utilities to participate in procurement. Since no labor reductions will be enforced under the project,
Mostar will continue with this non-core business for an indefinite period. Nevertheless, the Bank has
encouraged MWSU to spin off this unit when circumstances allow and some workers have already left to
establish private construction firms.
- 14 -



Operating expenses
It is not common Bank practice to cover operating expenses, but this is occasionally done to finance cash
shortages on a temporary basis. The funding of operating expenditures is a safety measure to ensure that,
during the first two years of the merger, there would be sufficient cash available to cover operating
expenditures. Since cash shortfalls would inevitably create tensions, this measure would help ensure the
success of the reunification. MWSU management has expressed concern that some elements of society
might encourage citizens to cease paying water bills to protest the merger. Because of this crisis potential,
a limited amount of funding would be made available to finance operating expenditures on a declining basis
over a two year period.
During 2000, MWSU is expected to have a operating cash shortfall of about KM 900,000, and a similar
shortfall is expected for the year 2001. Due to this liquidity problem, MWSU experiences difficulties in
paying suppliers and in securing services and goods at reasonable prices from qualified suppliers and
contractors. For MWSU to operate in an efficient manner, it is estimated that a net working capital
injection of about KM 2 million is required. Using the IDA Credit to finance operating expenses in the
amnount of up to KM 1.8 million during the next two years is essential to enable the utility to improve its
liquidity position immediately. This would help it tide over the transition years until it starts breaking even
in the year 2003.
Investment funds for network rehabilitation and sewerage rehabilitation vs. pre-defined investment
program
The Investment Funds to rehabilitate the water supply and sewer networks and strengthen the commercial
management of MWSU will be defined and implemented with the assistance of the Technical Advisor.
Based on extensive analysis during project preparation, broad guidelines for these investments have been
defined. The strategy of defining these investments and programs with the assistance of a Technical
Advisor would allow both parties to go through the process of data gathering and interpretation, least cost
analysis, investment selection, preparation of final designs, specifications and procurement documents and
the procurement process itself before construction and disbursements can begin. The Bank would provide
the final no-objection to proceed with the investments which would be financed from the Investment Funds.
Exclusive reliance on the Investment Funds approach would imply delays between project startup and
disbursements. As a result, under Component A, priority investments are ready for initiating efficiency
improvements of the water supply network.
Wastewater treatment
Mostar's wastewater is currently discharged to septic tanks or to sewers that themselves discharge without
treatment to the Neretva River. Seeking to reduce pollution loads, Mostar originally requested Bank -
financing for a wastewater treatment plant and associated sewerage investments. In response, the Bank-
team reviewed the downstream impacts of Mostar's current municipal discharges. All downstream
communities rely on bankside wells for their water supply. The team visited the two water utilities
immediately downstream of Mostar. They report excellent raw water quality except during brief low flow
periods in the summer. During the past two years, upstream reservoirs violated their operating rules,
releasing less than the mandated minimum flows. These low flows were associated with increased turbidity
in well water and treatment difficulties for the utilities. The utilities reported that Mostar discharges caused
problems only in the pre-war period, when factories in the Mostar area failed to meet effluent treatment
standards and discharged industrial wastes that found their way into wells. With the war's end, industrial
production and associated pollution problems ended.
- 15 -



The Bank team concluded that because the Neretva water quality problems now originate from sources
outside the Mostar municipal system, a treatment plant investment at this time would offer insufficient
benefits to downstream communities. In addition, capital and operating costs of a treatment plant would be
prohibitively high. Clearly, the costs associated even with a first phase of the waste water treatment plan
cannot be borne by MWSU for the foreseeable future. The combination of low benefits and high costs
argues for postponing a treatment plant investment and for careful attention to industrial compliance with
effluent treatment requirements as industry revives.
Construction and annual operation and maintenance costs were estimated for Phase I construction for three
alternative sewage treatments, namely: screening, primary treatment and secondary treatment. These
investment and operating costs currently cannot be absorbed by MWSU since the minimum investment cost
alone is US$25 million for screening; US$32 million for primary treatment and US$40 million for
secondary treatments. In addition, there would be annual operation and maintenance costs.
Given the strong desire of the Mostar authorities for assistance in addressing the sewage issue, the Bank
obtained grant funding to define a strategy for dealing effectively with the waste water scheme. The project
team obtained a US$350,000 United States Trade Development Agency grant for a comprehensive
evaluation of the Mostar waste water situation. The study will determine the costs and benefits of
maintaining a high level of water quality in the Neretva River and the foregone benefits of not taking any
action. This work will be done independent from the Project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
When Mostar came under the administration of the European Union (EU) in June 1994 - the international
community spent millions of dollars in an attempt to reunify Mostar. The EU itself spent approximately
200 million ECU to implement reunification measures. Largely through EU assistance, a significant
portion of Mostar's infrastructure was reconstructed. When the EU mandate ended in December 1996,
donor funding came to an abrupt halt.
Today, the Bank is working in Mostar on the Cultural Heritage project that seeks completion of
reconstruction of the Mostar Bridge; complex rehabilitation of various historic monuments; and
improvements in historic neighborhoods. The Cultural Heritage project features close partnerships with
UNESCO, the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, the World Monument Fund and the International Stari Most
Foundation. The proposed water supply project would be the second Bank project focused solely on
Mostar.
The Norwegian Government is one of the few other donors who have been involved in the water and
wastewater sector in Eastern Mostar. The project that they support would develop the Bijelo Piolo source
located in Eastern Mostar to provide water to the central part of the city by gravity, which would reduce
the electricity costs normally associated with pumping. The Norwegian project would provide immediate
cost reductions, as this source would provide sufficient water supply for over 8 months of the year and
would benefit the unified water supply system. At one time, the Bank and the Norwegians planned to
convert the Bijelo Piolo project into a component of the Bank's project under parallel financing
arrangements. However, due to timing this was not possible but the Bank and the Norwegians are
co-ordinating their work. Some NGOs (largely Italian and Danish) are also involved in very small scale
water supply projects in the Mostar area.
- 16 -



Outside the water sector, the Japanese Government is trying to merge city transport by requiring that the
two sides create one bus line throughout the city prior to providing investments or equipment As of yet, no
final decision has been made by the city authorities.
On a national level, USAID is sponsoring a series of workshops for utilities on "Cost Recovery Planning".
One of the sessions was held in Mostar in November, 1999 and was also attended by the Mostar utility
staff. This workshop introduced utility management and municipal officials to the principles of cost
recovery-based financial planning and operations, through a computer-based model. During the final
session, each utility used fmancial models to formulate a cost recovery plan on the basis of data provided
by that utility. By the end of this national training, over 60 utilities will have completed the workshops and
established a basic cost recovery plan for their utility.
I                 0               Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                   (PSR) Ratings
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____  :______ _  .(Bank-ffnanced  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bosnia and Herzegovina             Water, Sanitation and Solid       HS             S
Waste Urgent Works Project
Bosnia and Herzegovina             Pilot Cultural Heritage Project    S             S
Other development agencies
USAID                              Water supply, solid waste flood
control and sanitation projects
throughout the Federation and
Cost Recovery Planning
Training
Norway                             Bijelo Piolo (planned)
Japan                              Municipal Transport
EPTISA/Madrid                      Human Resources Project
Aspects (national)
EC Phare Program                   Solid Waste Management
(national)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bosnia-Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Urgent Works project (TF024032) was the first
IDA-financed water project after the war. It provided assistance to municipalities for urgent works and
training, equipment and materials, and technical assistance. The project was implemented so effectively
that it closed six months before the anticipated closing date despite the difficulties of the post-war situation.
Its success was due to several factors: a high level of commitment created by involving client and
stakeholders closely in the conceptualization and definition of project interventions; the technical and
management capacity of the executing agencies involved; limited sector development agreements; and an
enormous effort by the Bank to guide and facilitate project preparation and implementation.
- 17 -



The positive experience with the Urgent Works project will be invaluable for the Mostar project.
Successful preparation and implementation of the Mostar project, however, will be more difficult in two
respects. Firstly, the political/ethnic divisions in Mostar will need to be considered carefully in decision
making throughout the project cycle. Secondly, sector development objectives related to success of the
merger, institutional strengthening and cost recovery are far more ambitious than under the Urgent Works
project.
The lessons learned form the Urgent Works project and from overall Bank experience with water projects
and reflected in the proposed project design are:
(a)   The importance of client ownership, preparing the project in close collaboration and
implementation with the local stakeholders.  The total commitment from the Mostar
authorities and the project executing agency was (and is) necessary to ensure that
implementation proceeds properly. This is particularly pertinent because the reunification
is a politically sensitive issue requiring tremendous courage from those supporting it.
(b)   The importance of establishing a sound institutional framework to ensure that the project
and MWSU are sustainable. Achieving the full legal merger prior to Board presentation of
the proposed project demonstrated strong stakeholder commitment. Since the project will
require a major overhaul of the current organization structure due to the merger, and
operations need to improve, a Technical Advisor will assist in providing institutional
strengthening and efficient utility management.
(c)   A clear definition of project responsibilities and processes, which have been set forth in the
Project Implementation Plan that defines the responsibilities of the agencies involved: Town
Council, merged utility, PIT, consultants and the administrative processes for procurement,
disbursements, auditing and reporting.
(d)   Ensure implementation readiness to avoid potential delays in project initiation and
disbursements. Bid documents are prepared so that the first year investments can be
executed immediately after effectiveness.
(e)   The need for maximum  up-front action rather than exclusive reliance on loan
conditionalities for key action. This was done by having staffing of PIT completed by
negotiations; and the merger completed prior to Board presentation.
(f)   Realism and prudence in efficiency improvement targets and in financial projections.
- 18 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Mayor, Deputy Mayor, management of the two fonner utilities, city adcministration officials
representing both the Croat and Bosniac communities and Governmem officials have formnally supported
the project and its objectives and, in particular, the nerger x the Easter and Westem utilities. During the
first preparation mission in November, 1998, the project team informed the local authorities that the Bank's
involvement depended on continued genuine comnitment to the merger. Prior to starting full project
preparation, a letter was received on December 17, 1998 signed by the Mayors, Management of the two
utilities and City Infrastructure departnents confirning their support of integration of the two water
companies. On this basis and the apparent cooperation between the two utilities, the Bank continued
project preparation. The legal merger took place on April 26, 2000 and the Management Board has been
created.
Over the past year and a half, significant progress has been made also in human terms as workers from
both utilities held meetings together, attended training together and now are psychologically prepared to
work with each other again in the same entity.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.
*   The Bank's primary advantage is that it has the stature and reputation to be a credible broker between
the parties to the merger and through its involvement raises the stakes for any possible backtracking.
Moreover, Bank involvement was cntical in persuading the Town Council and utility officials in
Mostar to cooperate with each other in the water and sewerage sector and to create a unified utility.
Continued Bank involvement throughout the transition period will be essential to ensure the long-term
success of the merger.
*   The Bank will serve as a catalyst for securing other donor fmancing for well coordinated, high priority
and economically and financially justified, investments in the water and sewerage sector. Bank
involvement will also ensure that any such additional donor funding will serve to enhance the viability
of the merger.
* Through Bank involvement, a sound financial management system will be set up and accounts will be
audited annually in accordance with international auditing standards. Furthennore, procurement of
goods and services in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines will help minimize the cost of
equipment purchase and installation.
- 19-



* Under the proposed project, a strong Project Implementation Team has been set up. Together with the
transfer of knowledge to be provided by the Technical Advisor, this will result in lasting improvements
in institutional capabilities and performance.
-20 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The project team worked with MWSU to ensure that proposed physical investments meet the test of
economic efficiency. This work reflects itself in two ways: (a) the specifics of the priority investments; and
(b) the rules underlying future decisions about use of the Investment Funds.
The urgent investment program consists of: production metering, safeguarding water sources, and repair of
key distribution pipes. Tests by consultants have shown extremely high physical leakage rates (60-80%)
from the systems. Surprisingly, despite this leakage, MWSU has basically maintained 24 hour service with
adequate water quality and pressure. This has been possible in large part because the city enjoys two
sources of abundant spring water that can supply the city through gravity flows. These sources are
supplemented by wells that handle peak flows on the Western side of the city, and, currently, all supply on
the Eastem side. Unfortunately, all but one of the five supply sources lack basic protection from animal or
human intrusion.  To minimize the risk of compromised water quality, the project would provide
KM120,000 for basic physical protection of four sources. This and the associated investment in
production metering simply represents good practice in controlling risk and monitoring system operations,
and both have been evaluated on a least-cost basis. The rehabilitation of the 600mm pipeline f*om
Radoblje spring, however, will be subject to additional economic and financial analysis similar to other
proposed investments under the Investment Fund.
The distribution pipes and connections suffer from extremely high leakage rates. Based on BABE
technology monitoring and estimating procedures, main burst frequencies range from East to West between
1,420 bursts to 1,519 bursts per 1000 km per year (about 7 times worse than UK levels). Leakage at
connections averages about 2,300 liters per day (compared to a UK average of about 130 liters per day).
These extremely high average figures mask considerable variability, with a test of individual zones showing
leakage at connections ranging from 1,215 to 3,685 liters per day. These leakage rates create the
possibility of an extremely cost effective leakage reduction program. The engineering consultants have
estimated that a system wide leakage detection and repair program, conducted over a six year period, can
save water at an average cost of $0.077 per cubic meter. This compares to willingness to pay
demonstrated through consumption against metered domestic tariffs of $0.18 and $0.33 per cubic meter
(West and East). Whether the newly available water is taken up by system expansion or it replaces
pumped sources, the overall program promises substantial economic returns. The expected retumrs of the
urgent repair program have yet to be separately costed, but given that program's targeting on the high loss
districts and pipes, the cost per cubic meter saved will be well below the $0.077 average for the long run
program. Thus, the approximate KM 1.8 million investments in distribution system repairs in the priority
investment program already confirmed will have an economic rate of return well above the 12 percent
opportunity cost of capital.
The Investment Funds will go primarily toward the network upgrading program which, as demonstrated
above, has a positive NPV. Modest investment will also go to sewer system repair and maintenance. No
effort has been made to calculate economic benefits for that work. The consequence of blocked sewers is
overflows, putting sewage on the streets and creating the likelihood of human and animal contact and
potential diseases as a result.
- 21 -



2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 14 % (see Annex 4)
Past Financial Performance
During the post war period through 1999, the performance of the two separate Mostar water utilities was
poor, as both utilities recorded substantial losses during each year of operations. On a consolidated basis
for the two utilities combined, net losses amounted to KM 2.3 million in 1998 and KM 2.8 million in 1999;
the operating ratios in those years were 127% and 132%, respectively. These losses were primarily
compensated by non-payment of certain operating expenses, notably part of the electricity bill.
Although data relating to population and income are somewhat distorted due to the continuing movement of
war refugees returning to their homes, the population served by MWSU is currently estimated at
approximately 110,000. MWSU has 19,000 residential customers and 3,000 public/industrial customers.
In addition, another 1,800 customers are classified as "social cases" in the West and 1,500 in the East;
these consumers are served free of charge. Water production is nearly 18 million cubic meters per year in
the West and 15 million cubic meters per year in the East. The unaccounted-for water in MWSU's service
area ranges as high as 80%. Bill collection rates averaged often less than 50%, with a number of large
users, such as the army and certain state-owned enterprises, being notorious for not paying their bills. The
existence of a prohibition against shutting off a major consumer's water supply handicapped the utilities'
attempts to collect arrears.
Future Financial Performance
During 200(1-2003, MWSU is still expected to incur losses. However, these losses are expected to decline
rapidly in magnitude as collection ratios go up and water losses are being brought down. Beginning in
2003, MWSU is expected to show a modest surplus. During each year thereafter net income should
gradually increase through 2007 due to further improvements in collections and corresponding decreases in
bad debt provisions, and small but steady increases in average tariffs. Agreement was reached that
MWSU will improve collections by at least 3% per year to reach a minimum of 78% of billed water
charges by 2003 and continue to improve collections in each year thereafter. The operating ratio is
expected to gradually decline from an estimated 126% in 2000 to 96% in 2007. By 2003 operating
revenues would adequately cover operating costs with a projected operating ratio of 98%. Agreement was
reached that MWSU will cover all operating and maintenance costs from operating revenues, starting
in 2003. MWSU would provide counterpart funding for the proposed investment program by ensuring
installation of equipment by its own staff and grants from donors.
As a result of the distribution repair and the leak prevention programs, a reduction in pumping costs equal
to about 20% of current utility costs is expected by 2004; the benefits of this program will continue in the
years thereafter. Given the efficiency improvements to be achieved under the project, including the staff
hiring freeze now in effect and the intended reduction of staff levels through attrition, cash operating
expenses are conservatively expected to show only minor increases throughout the project implementation
period.
- 22 -



MWSUs balance sheet values are expected to double between 2000 and 2007. This is primarily caused by
the addition of major investments, including those to be financed under the project, and the expected
increases in internal cash generation due to improved cash flow. Since fixed assets have not been
revalued in accordance with international accounting standards, agreement was reached that MWSU
will, by December 31, 2001, have its assets revalued based on an assessment carried out by a qualified
independent organization and under terms of reference both satisfactory to IDA.
MWSU's long tenn liabilities would increase from zero in 2000 to over KM 24 million in 2007, reflecting
the gradual draw down of the IDA credit. Agreement was reached that MWSU will not incur any new
debt unless it can maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 times.
Currently, tariffs in West Mostar are KM 0.38/mr for residential consumers, KM 0.64/mr for humanitarian
organizations and KM 0.77/mr for industry. The tariffs in East Mostar are KM 0.68/mn for residential
consumers and KM 1.85/mr for industry. Agreement was reached with MWSU that it will harmonize
the tariffs by January 1, 2001, at which time the levels would be the following: KM 0.50/m' for
residential consumers; KM 0.64/mr for humanitarian organizations, and KM 1.1 0/rm for industry.
Arrears
Financial data indicate that it is mostly the large consumers (army, hospitals, public institutions and
universities) that are not paying for water supply services. Generally, collections have been higher in
Mostar East than in Mostar West, largely due to the fact that the main defaulters are located in the West.
Bills for industry in West Mostar are three times the value of those issued in the East. Total gross accounts
receivable as of the end of 1999 stood at KM 3.1 million, equivalent to almost five months of billing.
MWSU has prepared a plan for arrears settlement. Currently, there are twenty large users in arrears, of
which the six most blatant non-payers have been taken to court. However, in taking these debtors to court,
the utility must also pay high legal fees just to file the case in court. Three of the larger users had their
bank accounts frozen, in principle until their water bills have been paid. The remaining seventeen users
have signed memoranda of understanding with MWSU, which stipulate partial payments on arrears and a
write-off of the remainder. However, the memoranda insist on full payment of all future bills. If not, then
these users would immediately be taken to court and service would be cut off. The performance contract
includes a shut-off and disconnection provision, but both the Town Council and MWSU have reiterated
that they are in practice not able to disconnect the army and hospitals. The Town Council is in discussion
with the Ministry of Defense to agree on a special payment contract-plan with the army.
Customer Impact
MWSU's customers will be impacted both by the harmonization of tariffs and the projected gradual tariff
increases over the next several years. East Mostar residential customers are currently paying a flat charge
based on the number of persons per household. This will change to a metered use charge, which is
expected to increase revenue from this customer category. West Mostar residential customers will have the
same change in billing practice. In addition, both residential and industrial customers in the West will have
to cope with increased rates, as their tariffs are being harnonized with those of the East.
- 23 -



Currently, water and sewerage bills in relation to household income are 1.58% in the West and 1.97% in
the East. After the harmonization of tariffs, this will increase to 1.72.% for the West and decrease to
1.93% for the East. Monthly household income is approximately 380 KM. For the low and fixed income
groups within MWSU's service area, the projected tariffs may be burdensome. If the tariff increases are
not mitigated in some fashion, they may find the projected increases unaffordable. However, the Town
Council has agreed to mitigate these impacts under the performance contract, including financial assistance
programs for senior and low income households.
Fiscal Impact:
The project will have a positive fiscal impact, since the improved financial position of MWSU will
eliminate the necessity for the Town Council to provide operating and investment subsidies.
3. Technical:
Network Rehabilitation
The technical design of the project focuses on rehabilitation, since no preventive maintenance has been
performed on the water supply and sewerage systems since the war. The lack of adequate maintenance is
in part caused by war shortages and inadequate cash flow, but also predates the war. The only
interventions have been on an emergency basis to keep the systems functioning. As a result, the water
losses from the combined water supply system are as high as 80% of total production. Additional
measurement work, however, is needed to confirm this rate. Well managed systems experience losses
between 10% and 15% of production. The target for the project is 38% which may need to be adjusted in
light of more reliable data to be produced with the assistance of the Technical Advisor.
Works will comprise leak repair and replacement of water mains that have exceeded their useful life. The
repairs and main replacement are well within the capabilities of local contractors and water works
personnel. The most difficult part of the project will be to find the leaks. Experienced specialists will be
used for this work through out the life of the project. They will train water works personnel who will form
a new unit that will continue leak detection after completion of the project. Other technical components
comprise meter replacement, installation of new meters, the provision of operating and maintenance
equipment, and system extensions to refugee areas not presently served. The metering component will
support the program to improve collections. The provision of operating and maintenance equipment will
support staff training in preventive maintenance. The system rehabilitation component will target refugee
areas.
The sewer rehabilitation/repair component will involve opening clogged sewer lines and rehabilitating
stretches of sewers that are close to collapsing. To target the funding provided under Component C in a
cost effective manner, a thorough inspection of the sewer system will be carried out with the assistance of
the Technical Advisor. The Technical Advisor will also help MWSU to improve the effectiveness of
MWSUs sewer operations department and decide on the appropriate maintenance equipment.
Equipment, materials and construction works to be financed under the project would be required to meet
appropriate standards of international quality and best practice.  Supervision of construction to
international standards would be required and assured by the presence of the Technical Advisor. These
requirements are essential to ensure that investments supported under the project meet cost-effective
standards of useful life and efficiency.
-24 -



Cost estimates for the priority investments are based on prevailing market unit costs (including recent
experience in procurement under Bank-financed projects in other transition economies), with appropriate
allowance for inflation. An adequate allowance for physical contingencies has also been included in the
project costs.
4. Institutional:
A six person Management Board of the utility has been established, composed of professionals representing
various economic sectors from Mostar. The Board is currently drafting a Book of Regulations on its
mandate. Board meetings are being held on weekly basis until September 2000, to facilitate the
reorganization transition. The Board will report to the Town Council and its members serve term
appointments.
While MWSU's Statute provides MWSU management in principle with an adequate level of autonomy and
introduces workable regulatory structure, the main vehicle laying down mutual obligations is the
performance contract between MWSU and the Town Council. The performance contract sets down the
rules for making available quality services to customers and for an efficient management of the utility and
its assets, funded through the setting and collection of cost recovering tariffs. The contract includes
satisfactory provisions on the following major aspects: policies regarding tariff setting; disconnection
policy for non-payers; the Town Council's role with regard to providing subsidies for the low income
groups unable to pay their water bills; the Town Councirs responsibility for paying bills of entities that are
on its budget such as schools, hospitals and its own agencies; the autonomy of MWSU in day-to-day
operations; and improvement of efficiency in management and operations.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency of the project will be MWSU with the assistance of Technical Advisor.
4.2 Project management:
The project would be implemented during 2001-2005 under the overall responsibility of the Mostar Water
and Sewerage Utility. The utility created within its organization a Project Implementing Team (PIT)
staffed by its own personnel and the Technical Advisor. The PIT will consist of a financial officer,
accountant, procurement officer, procurement analyst, translator and program assistant.
The project will be managed by MWSU assisted by a Technical Advisor. With this arrangement, MWSU
has the capacity to make investment decisions and implement the project. The Technical Advisor will
assist MWSU with identification an'd implementation of investments and improvements in network
rehabilitation and operations, commercial practices and institutional strengthening as described' in the
implementation sector.
4.3 Procurement issues:
MWSU will have primary responsibility for procurement. A procurement officer and procurement assistant
have been appointed by MWSU with Bank approval to carry out the procurement functions under the
Project While the Technical Advisor will be familiar with Bank procurement guidelines and coordinate
preparation of procurement packages, consultants would be hired for the preparation of final designs and
bidding documents, procurement assistance an and implementation supervision for all investment under
components B, C and D as well as procurement assistant and supervision under component A. The
Technical Advisor would co-ordinate this work but responsible largely for identification and preparation of
specifications for the Investment Funds.
- 25 -



Also, MWSU will be assisted by an experienced former staff member of the IDA-financed Water,
Sanitation and Solid Waste Urgent Works project that recently closed in 1999. The procurement capacity
should be strengthened by additional training of the designated procurement persons as well as technical
staff in MWSU. In addition, training in Bank procurement procedures will be provided through a
workshop during the project launch mission.
The following action plan will be implemented to strengthen the procurement capacity of the MWSU as
well as to provide information and support to all concerned for implementing procurement:
a. MWSU shall appoint the procurement officer and the assistant procurement officer before the Credit
effectiveness or the project launch workshop, whichever is earlier;
b. MWSU shall prepare and implement a training program for the procurement and assistant procurement
officers. This training should begin with training through the project launch workshop and should be
completed within six montis of Credit effectiveness;
c. MWSU shall develop a procurement monitoring system to track procurement actions as well as to
produce up-to-date periodic reports for itself and the Bank; and
d. A procurement seminar was held in May, 2000 to familiarize the relevant staff with IDA procurement
procedures and the competitive bidding procedures to be followed for issuing grants.
4.4 Financial management issues:
In accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and LACI requirements, a financial management specialist reviewed the
proposed financial management systems (FMS) between January-May, 2000 and found that the system in
the utility was inadequate and does not currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. One of the main objectives of the project is to encourage the reunification of the two
separate, but previously integrated, water utilities in Mostar. Since this merger was only recently
completed, substantive work on putting adequate financial management arrangements in place can really
only begin now. Therefore, the establishment of an FMS satisfactory to the Bank, as assessed by a
certified financial management specialist, will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In accordance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), the project has been classified as Category B,
which requires a limited environmental analysis to determine potential negative environmental impacts and
propose mitigation measures where needed, as well as to identify opportunities for environmental
improvements. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Environmental Analysis were prepared in
response to these requirements.
The project will have no negative environmental effects and will not raise any resettlement or property
rights issues since it focuses on rehabilitation of the existing network and facilities. The project will cover
only rehabilitation, not extension of services. All work will be executed either within existing facilities or
within rights of way of public street networks. The project will not affect any known archeological or
historical sites. Bidding documents will specify requirements for keeping work sites pollution-free,
retuming sites to their original conditions and minimizing dust, noise and related work nuisance.
- 26 -



MWSU will also be responsible for following strict procedures applicable to unknown historical sites
(discovery, notification etc.). The project will not involve issues related to indigenous people, involuntary
resettlement or land acquisition.
The project is expected to bring environmental and health benefits because: (a) rehabilitation and improved
operation and maintenance of the water network will reduce water losses and decrease the volume of water
intake; (b) water conservation through demand management is expected to eliminate the need for new
capacity; and (c) improvement in operations will contribute to better day-to-day environmental management
(handling of hazardous chemicals, improvements in the operation and maintenance of the sewerage network
and better compliance with environmental regulations).
International Waterways
Mostar straddles the Neretva River, an international waterway that flows also through Croatia before
entering the Adriatic. As such, Bank staff considered the applicability of OD 7.50 which governs,
"Projects on International Waterways." That OD applies to any water project that involves the use or
potential pollution of international waterways. However, it specifically exempts from the normal
notification requirement "minor additions or alterations" to existing schemes that "will not adversely change
the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians." The proposed Mostar Water Supply and
Sanitation project meets this definition.  Existing water sources are groundwater and two springs
intercepted at source. No new water sources will be developed. The bulk of the project investments aim at
reducing system leakage and the water saved will result in decreased groundwater pumping, while use of
spring water remains unchanged. Additional supply could potentially go to villages on the periphery of
Mostar that were served by the Mostar water utility before the war, but where war damage to village
distribution systems has forced temporary alternatives such as standpipe supply. These villages currently
rely on wells or trucked supply for water, with wastewater discharging to septic tanks. The latter
arrangements would continue and would not result in new pollution loadings on the Neretva River.
The project would cover only rehabilitation, not extension of services. Any extensions of service, e.g., to
selected small villages, would not be part of the proposed project. Similarly, no new sewerage investments
are contemplated under the project, although project funds may be used to clear blockages in the existing
system and repair damaged pipes. These sewerage-related activities fall within the scope of normal system
maintenance.
The groundwater is hydraulically connected to the Neretva River but this is not a groundwater aquifer that
also extends to Croatia. The project does not propose to extract more groundwater or spring water, but
rather less after the leak detection work commences. No surface water sources will be affected by the
project, that new supply will not be developed, and that no additional pollution loading to the Neretva is
anticipated as a result of the project. In addition, no agreements exist between the riparian states on the
Neretva River. As a result, it is judged that the notification requirements of OD 7.50 do not apply in the
case of this project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP address new land use permits; architectural design of pump stations and
reservoirs; dust control; noise control for pump stations; safety hazards during construction; proper local
drainage of all facilities constructed by the project; and traffic disruption during construction. These are
considered to be adequate.
- 27 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 17, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The EA report was posted in the public area of the former utilities and the Town Council. Please see Good
Citizenship table in paragraph 6.3 below for mechanisms of consultation.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The indicators clearly reflect the objectives and results of the EMP. The performance and monitoring
indicators are: no complaints and damages for new land use permnits; compliance with codes and drawings
for architectural design of pump stations and reservoirs; no complaints for dust control; no complaints from
nearby community members for noise control for pump stations; compliance with regulations and rules for
safety hazards during construction; local flooding for proper drainage for all facilities constructed by the
project and no traffic congestion for traffic disruption during construction.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment for Mostar conducted in late 1998 and early 1999 ("Mostar Pilot Cultural Heritage
Project Social Assessment") solicited citizen views on the priorities for reconstruction and development in
Mostar. Two thirds of surveyed respondents listed industrial and enterprise development as their top
reconstruction priority. The next most important concern, but one chosen by only 20 percent of the people,
was housing. Focus groups highlighted housing for displaced persons, primarily those forced from their
dwellings during the war and unable to return, as a lingering problem. Water supply, delivery of which has
been maintained throughout most of the city in adequate quantities, was not ranked highly as a problem.
However, in a national Social Assessment that was undertaken a year before the Cultural Heritage project,
improvement in water supply and sewerage were seen as one of the highest priorities in Mostar. This
contradiction reflects a problem with social analysis and the difficulty of obtaining accurate information on
community attitudes.
Another insight from the social assessment was the pervasive concern about corruption or mismanagement
of project finance in Mostar. This led to a strong preference by citizens for a substantial foreign presence
in the project, primarily to maintain financial control. However, there was as little support for purely
foreign management as there was for purely local management. The present project responds to this
through on-going interaction of the water company with the Technical Advisor. The project will also rely
on a very strong financial management system, audited by an independent international auditing firm to
highlight any potential mismanagement.
The social assessment looked at the issue of the reintegration of Mostar. This is particularly important to
this proposed project, given its explicit goal of reintegrating a crucial infrastructure service as a step
toward broader reintegration. The findings here were quite mixed (see Figure 1). In the context of a bridge
reconstruction project highly charged with symbolism, residents of Eastern Mostar saw the project as
generally very positive, while those in Western Mostar tended to see it as negative. Two insights from that
survey may be relevant to this project. The first is the citizen's sense that the city politicians exacerbate
- 28 -



inter-ethnic tensions for political purposes, while the attitudes of ordinary citizens are much more
supportive of reintegration. Second, many interviewees felt that the nature of the population had changed,
with a Diaspora of old Mostarians and an influx of refugees and displaced persons who did not subscribe to
the "old spirit of the city" in which people got along regardless of ethnicity. Although interviewees
themselves argued that they supported reconciliation, the survey respondents gave overwhelming priority to
reconstruction of structures culturally significant to their own ethnic community. Clearly, any reintegration
project will experience considerable tension as the very difficult process of reconciliation proceeds.
Figure 1
Expectations of the Impact of Reconstructon on
Mostar's Reintegration
10
0.
160
o120 -             i1 
.0
:;80                     13m   IWest
40      vv                2     ; 
20 mi~3f..-
Very  Generally Cannot Generally  Very
negative negative  decide  positive  positive
opinion of effects
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
All citizens of Mostar will benefit from improved water and sewerage services. Current estimated domestic
per capita consumption is 122 liters/day. However, much of the benefit in service efficiency will be
invisible to beneficiaries since it will be reflected only in tariff increases lower than the increases that would
otherwise be needed to meet financial goals. During project implementation, a Customer Service Bureau
will be set up in MWSU to better serve consumers and to organize public information campaigns. These
activities will ensure adequate communication between consumers and the utility on an ongoing basis. The
Customer Service Bureau will provide information on the change in the Mostar utility's management and
operations arising from the merger and the improvements that are expected; services available; tariff issues;
water conservation methods; and environmental activities for the benefit of the entire city. Public relations
campaigns will accompany any major undertaking by the utility to create public understanding and support
for the measures to be taken, particularly as they relate to tariffs, disconnection of illegal connections and
service shut-off due to non-payment.
- 29 -



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Under the perfonnance contract, a good citizenship clause has been agreed upon between MWSU and the
Town Council. A Customer Service Bureau will be established by December, 2001 (see Section 6.2).
Good Citizenship Clause of the Performance Contract
Measure                          Responsible            Target
Party               Date
To establish a Customer Service Bureau that will      MWSU                 Year I
receive, track and report on all customer interactions
with the utility
Develop and report set of appropriate customer service  MWSU             Set agreed
indicators
New/altemative payment mechanisms                     MWSU               Established
Develop suite of customer focused communication       MWSU                 Year 2
materials
Prepare short annual sunmnary of performance against  MWSU                 Yearly
targets and send out with bills
Conduct customer satisfaction surveys                 MWSU                 Yearly
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Under the social development clause of the performance contract, consumers will be kept informed
regularly and be given ample opportunity to voice their opinion.
Social Development Clause of the Performance Contract
Measure                           Responsible           Target
Party               Date
To host an open day once a year at the utility to   MWSU                 Yearly
show citizens how the utility operates
To support periodic initiatives in the local schools in  MWSU            Yearly
relation to the environment and water.
Hold Town Hall meeting                              MWSU                 Yearly
-30-



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will monitor performance for social development outcomes by assessing the following:
management is working cohesively in the same building; newly trained staff performing functions
effectively; employees of both former utilities accept the merger and are willing to work together in one
organization.
A social analysis under the guidance of the ECA social development unit will be carried out during the
supervision phase to obtain information on Mostarians' perceptions on which sectors could possibly follow
the example of the water sector and reintegrate. This will be particularly useful if the analysis can provide
a realistic picture of the potential for reintegration for the entire city of Mostar. In addition, this would be
fed back into broader national and regional initiatives, including the South Eastern Europe Stability Pact.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safe  ard olicies aply to the project?
F, 'J !-Pcabff., 
O Environmental Assessment [OP 4.01, BP 4.01. GP 4.011       _         Yes 1 No
CL Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04. GP 4.04L L]Yes N No
El Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                    El Yes Z No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       l Yes Z No
El Cultural Property  OEN 11.031                                  [ Yes EK No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      Yes 1 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             [ Yes EI No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                               O Yes 1 No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)  _   Yes 3 No
E[]Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 760.GP 7.60               Yes 1 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
T-he main features of the Environmental Mitigation Plan are summarized in paragraph 5.2. The exemption
from the notification applicability of OP 7.50 is summarized in paragraph 5.1.
- 31 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project will largely depend on: (a) successfully operating the unified Mostar Water
and Sewerage Utility on an autonomous and commercial basis, with the full support of the leadership of the
City and the Federation Government; (b) achieving financial viability by increasing revenues to cover
adequate operating and maintenance expenditures, a portion of investments, and debt-service; and (c) the
long term impact of the technical assistance component on the efficiency and operations of the utility. The
current problems, particularly the lack of adequate cash flow, largely stem from the aftermath of the war;
the need to educate consumers (and particularly the large public users) on the importance of paying for
services received; and the high cost of operating an artificially divided system.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Rist tffThtX   ksi  000:00:tRisRating        Risk MtT$V! i inimization Measur
From Outputs to Objective
The merger of the utility is unsustainable.  H       Enactment of the Statute and completion of the
merger ensure that both sides understand their
respective commitments and obligations.
Continued cooperation will in the medium term
be ensured by donors making this a condition of
their involvement and, in the longer term, by the
actual efficiency and financial gains made by the
utility.
MWSU does not become financially           M         Financial targets were agreed upon and are part
viable.                                              of the Credit and Project Agreement. A
Technical Advisor will be hired. Under the
performance contract, Town Council confirned
their commnitment to settle arrears, pay future
bills promptly, and to maintain (and if necessary
increase) tariffs.
The merger is perceived as a threat by     M         Staff has been informed that the merger is
some staff who may be forced to forego               necessary because the current division is not
present positions and related benefits or            technically and financially sustainable. This
be laid off.                                         rationale is generally accepted. Agreement was
reached to reduce staff through natural attrition
only.
MWSU management perceive the               H         The Bank will ensure that MWSU is seen as an
Technical Advisor as a threat to its                 equal working partner with the Technical
authority and decision making.                       Advisor. All decision making will be carried out
with mutual agreement from both parties. The
Bank will monitor the Technical Advisor's
performance.
Failure to reduce arrears from large       H         Implement agreed arrears reduction plans; and
customers.                                          implement agreed disconnection policy.
From Components to Outputs
- 32 -



MWSU's lack of experience with              M          A Project Implementation Team has been set up
procurement and financial management                   within the utility with qualified specialists,
may delay project implementation.                      assisted by the Technical Advisor. Also, an
experienced former staff member of the recently
completed Urgent Works project will provide
assistance in procurement matters and transfer
knowledge.
Detailed feasibility studies are not         N         All measures will be taken to provide
available on time.                                     consultants with previous studies/data to avoid
superfluous work and to build on current
studies.
Skilled staff cannot be retained or new      N         Current staff will be trained under the technical
ones are not available.                                assistance component and by the Technical
Advisor. As needs for specific personnel
develop or become clear, suitable staff will be
hired at competitive salaries. Given the overall
employment situation, this should not be a
problem.
Delay in the integration of the existing     H         MWSU is to prepare a detailed migration plan.
accounting functions would have a                      An experienced financial consultant is assisting
significant impact on project                          MWSU on the migration plan and the actual
implementation.                                        merging of accounting functions.
Failure by MWSU to cover part of local       M         Ensure satisfactory performance through
costs.                                                increased billing and collections; arrears
reduction; changes in tariff structures and levels.
Overall Risk Rating                          H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Harmonization of tariffs
Addressed by:
(a)    Gradual tariff changes leading up to harmonized tariffs by January 31, 2001.
(b)    Public relations campaigns on the need to achieve MWSU's financial viability.
Use of Technical Advisor
Addressed by:
(a)    Continuous dialogue with the Beneficiary, active Beneficiary participation in project
design and decision making.
(b)    Development of Beneficiary ownership of the project early on in project preparation.
- 33 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)  A Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, the Federation and
the City of Mostar on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
(b)  A Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of IDA and MWSU on terns and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
(c) A project financial management system satisfactory to IDA has been established.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial Covenants. MWSU shall:
(a)  By December 31, 2001, have its assets revalued based on an assessment carried out by a
qualified independent organization in accordance with terms of reference both to the Association.
(b)  Establish a satisfactory company financial management information system, based on
international accounting standards, by March 30, 2002.
(c ) Not incur any debt, unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures show that its
estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.5 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its debt, including
the debt to be incurred.
(d)  Harmonize its water tariffs, at the latest by January 1, 2001 in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
(e) Cover all operating and maintenance costs starting in 2003. Provide financial forecasts by
October 31, 2002 and on October 31 of each following year of project implementation to ensure
that projected operating revenues are sufficient to meet operating and maintenance expenses for
the next fiscal year. If these requirements can not be met, the MWSU will take all necessary
measures, including adjustments of the structure or level of its rates.
(f)  Improve collections by at least 3% per year to reach a minimum of 75% of billed water charges
by 2003, and continue to improve in each following fiscal year.
For Disbursement on Specific Comvonents
(a)    MWSU, with the assistance of the Technical Advisor, should prepare an Action Plan on planned-
investments on expenditures in the following components: Network Rehabilitation Water
Distribution Network Rehabilitation and Improvements; Sewerage Network Rehabilitation; and
Institutional Strengthening. The action plan should include a description of the proposed
investment, an estimate of project costs and expenses, procurement plan, economic and financial
analysis; procurement plan and an analysis of the priority of the proposed investment/expenditure
in term of its cost effectiveness and social impact.  Upon approval of the Action Plan,
disbursements will be authorized for these specific categories.
-34 -



Miscellaneous:
(a)  Government of BiH shall on-lend proceeds of the credit to MWSU on IDA terms.
(b) Government of BiH shall be responsible for payment of any applicable taxes and project cost
sharing.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
3 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Seema Manghee                     Ricafdo A. Hal erin               Christiaan J. Poortman
Team Leader                       Sector Mana                       Country Manager/Director
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:             Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Move towards essential sectoral Increase in level of cost recovery. Quarterly progress reports.  Improvement of the water supply
reforns and phasing out of   Improvement in institutional  Bank and Country reports.     and sewerage facilities will be
reconstruction by supporting  capacity.                                                  considered valuable for
selected investments in      Adoption of modem management                                consumer. Political stability is
infrastructure combined with    and operating systems.                                   adequate to allow for successful
suitable policy measures.                                                                implementation of sector reforms.
Project Development          Outcome / Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
The residents and refugees of the 1. I Reduction of physical losses  1.1 MWSU's operational data    Mostar improvements will be
Mostar area receiving high   from the water network by 15%   contained in quarterly progress  imitated by other utilities in BiH.
quality, reliable and affordable   per year and to 38% overall by   reports, Financial Statements and
water and sewerage services from the end of the project (down from  extemal audit reports.  The local authorities are willing
an efficient and financially  current levels of 60 - 80%).  1.2 MWSU's operational data  to strongly support the financial
self-sufficient utility which is    1.2 Collections increased by a   contained in quarterly progress   and institutional reforms
recognized as a model for    minimum of 3% per year to reach reports, Financial Statements and necessary for the implementation
inter-ethnic cooperation and  at least 75% of billed water  extemal audit reports.       of the project.
reconciliation.              charges by 2003.              1.3 Independent audit report,
1.3 Reduced energy consumption MWSU's operational data
per unit of water produced.   contained in quarterly progress
1.4 99% of water samples meet  reports.
national water quality standards  1.4 Independent audit report,
by end of project.           MWSU's operational data
contained in quarterly progress
reports.
-36 -



Key Prkfonnanc
lli,rarhy ol= O4ivs_   _               Iia*iors   _ctclg  EwIu,                         .-Ika C McanwlQsO
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. MWSU's ability to maintain   1.1 Four of the five water  1.1 Quarterly progress reports.  Local authorities committed to
and monitor the use of Mostar   sources secured by end of project. 1.2 Quarterly progress reports.  supporting the financial and
water sources improved.      1.2 100% of sources have      1.3 Quarterly progress reports.  institutional reforms necessary to
production meters by end of  1.4 Quarterly progress reports.  implement the project effectively.
project.
The merged utility is able to
gradually improve collections and
achieve an acceptable level of
cost recovery at the end of the
project.
MWSU is able to retrain and hire
skilled and capable professionals
2. MWSU's capacity to reliably   2.1 50 km of transmission and    2.1 Quarterly progress reports.
distribute quality water to Mostar distribution pipelines repaired or 2.2 Quarterly progress reports.
residents and refugees in a more  replaced by end of project.  2.3 Quarterly progress reports.
cost-effective way improved.  2.2 20% increase of hydraulic
efficiency of pipe networks.
2.3 20% production and 4000
consumption meters installed by
end of project.
3. MWSU's ability to improve    3.1 6 km of sewer pipes replaced 3.1 Quarterly progress reports.
sewer services strengthened.  and rehabilitated by 2003.  3.2 Quarterly progress reports.
3.2 Operating equipment
supplied by 2001 date.
3.3 Special surveys and analyses 3.3 Survey and analyses reports.
conducted by 2002.
4. Institutional and organizational 4.1 Accounts of two utilities  4.1 Bank account statements and
capacity to support the merged   consolidated by January 1, 2001. financial audit
utility developed.           4.2 Common employment        4.2 Tariffratification.
conditions approved September 1, 4.3 Training agendas, curricula,
2000.                        attendance records and
4.3 Common tariff structure and  participant evaluations.
level for East and West operating
districts operating by end of year.
4.4 MWSU receive training in
modern sector management
methods and practices by end of
project.
- 37 -



5. Merged utility's capacity to   5.1 Computerized billing system  5.1 Billing system reports,
operate in an efficient,     for all consumers operational by  quarterly progress reports.
professional, commercial and  2001.                         5.2 Business and Program Plans,
financially viable way        5.2 Yearly business plan (incl.  perfonnance indicators and
strengthened.                 rate implications) prepared by    monitoring plans.
third quarter of year 1, with  5.3 Quarterly progress reports.
detailed program developed for   5.4 MWSU's operational data
following year.               contained in quarterly progress
5.3 Maintain key financial ratios reports.
at agreed levels or better.   5.5 Community Education and
5.4 Response times for 90% of   Public Relations campaign
repairs to mains bursts and sewer strategy document, number of
collapses decreased to within 24  educational campaigns.
hours by end of project
5.5 Community education and
Public Relations programs under
implementation by end of 2001.
6. MWSU able to cover         6.1 MWSU's energy costs
short-term operating costs to  financed through 2002.
encourage long- term financial   6.2 Expendable supplies are
viability and development.    available.
6.3 Materials are made available
to support development.
- 38 -



Key Performante
H ierarcy of Objectives             Inlieators            Montorin     Evaluation        CritIcl.kAssu,mp. s
Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                 Outputs)
1. Priority investments for water  Component A: US$3.68 million   1.1 Quarterly progress reports.  The merger of the utilities is
supply rehabilitation and    Component B: US$4.72 million   1.2 Quarterly progress reports.  sustainable.
improvement implemented.     Component C: US$0.50 million   1.3 Quarterly progress reports.
1.1 Install production meters on  Component D: US$1.50 million   1.4 Quarterly progress reports.  Utility managers and workers
sources currently not metered.   Component E: US$1.55 million                           accept and support merger and
1.2 Ensure security of supply and Component F: US$1.43 million                          are willing to work together in an
protection zone for four of the                                                         organization.
five existing water sources.
1.3 Replace pipes with known                                                            Organizational policies and
high volume leaks and beyond                                                            procedures and developed,
simple repairs.                                                                         supported and used by managers
1.4 Construct pump stations to                                                         and workers to encourage the
serve the communities of Bijelo                                                         merger.
Polje and Orlac.
1.5 Purchase leak detection and                                                         Population of Mostar supportive
flow measurement instruments                                                            of the rehabilitation programs and
for the outfitting of a water                                                           support the relationship between
distribution network management                                                         the quality of service and
unit.                                                                                   payment for these services.
Purchase a vehicle, computers
and office equipment in support                                                         A shut off procedure for
of project implementation.                                                              delinquent customers is acted
upon by the Town Council and
acted upon.
A procedure for regularizing
illegal connections is agreed to
and implemented.
Gain consensus and enact policies
surrounding delinquent payers.
2. Water distribution network                             2.1 Quarterly progress reports   The operating expenditures
rehabilitation and improvement                            2.2 Quarterly progress reports   component is sufficient to address
Fund operational.                                         2.3 Quarterly progress reports  the lack of adequate cash flow of
2.1 Replace, rehabilitate and/or                          2.4 Procurement reports.      MWSU.
repair transmission and                                   2.5 Survey results and analyses.
distribution pipelines and house                                                        MWSU works in coordination
connections to reduce leaks.                                                            with the Technical Advisor to
2.2 Supply and install pumps,                                                           facilitate project implementation.
electrical equipment valves, pipes
and pressure reducers to improve
pressure zoning.
2.3 Supply and install production
and consumption meters.
2.4 Supply operating equipment.
Carry out special surveys and
analyses.
-39 -



3. Sewerage network                                         3.1 Quarterly progress reports
rehabilitation programs                                     3.2 Procurement reports.
implemented.                                                3.3 Survey results and analyses.
3.1 Replace, rehabilitate and/or
repair sewer pipes.
3.2 Supply operating equipment.
3.3 Implement special surveys
and analyses.
4. Institutional strengthening and                          4.1 Procurement reports.
capacity building programs                                  4.2 Training needs assessment
implemented.                                                report.
4.1 Procure equipment,                                      4.3 Training program curricula.
materials, software, office and                             4.4 Attendance records,
computer equipment.                                         participant evaluations.
4.2 Conduct training needs
assessment (technical advisor).
4.3 Develop personnel training
programs.
4.4 Conduct training for
Borrower's personnel.
Technical Advisor/Engineering                               5.1 Technical Advisor Terms of
Services conducted.                                         Reference, contract.
5.1 Engage technical advisor to                             5.2 Training curricula and
assist with network operations,                             participant evaluations.
commercial operations and                                   5.3 Sewerage network
training.                                                   investment plan, quarterly
5.2 Introduce operating efficiency                          progress reports.
measures through training and                               5.4 Procurement records.
technical assistance.                                       5.5 Training attendance records
5.3 Develop and assist in the                               and participant evaluations.
implementation of the cleaning                              5.6 Investment implementation
and rehabilitation of sewers.                               and monitoring plans, quarterly
5.4 Oversee the introduction                                reports.
and/or upgrade of computerized                              5.7 Maintenance plan.
systems and procedures for                                  5.8 Terns of Reference and
connection management,                                      consultant reports.
consumption metering, consumer
services, billing and collections.
5.5 Train MWSU staff in the
operation of newly installed
systems.
5.6 Assist the utility to plan,
design and implement
investments in support of the
above programs available under
Components B,C and D.
5.7 Develop a comprehensive
preventative maintenance
program.
5.8 Engage engineering services
for the preparation of final
designs and bidding documents,
assistance with
5.9 Procure equipment and
supervise investments under
components B,C and D.
-40-



6.1 Quarterly progress reports.
6. Critical operating expenditures
supported to support the merger.
Define and ensure adherence to
expenditures eligible for
financing (energy costs,
expendable supplies and
materials).
- 41 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.68 million
A.    Priority Investments for Water Supply Rehabilitation and Improvement
Priority investments that are economically justified, clearly defined and already prepared. This include:
a. installation of production meters on sources currently not metered;
b. security of supply and protection zone for four of the five existing water sources;
c. replacement of pipes with known high volume leaks and beyond simple repairs;
d. rehabilitation of 600mm supply main from the existing Radobolja spring source to the existing
Glavica reservoir;
e. construction of pump stations to serve the communities of Bijelo Polje and Orlac;
f purchase of leak detection and flow measurement instruments for the outfitting of a water
distribution network management unit; and
g. purchase of computers and related equipment in support of project implementation.
Project Component 2 - US$4.72 million
B.    Water Distribution Network Rehabilitation and Improvement Fund
Least-cost priority investments for source and consumption metering, leak detection and repair, network
rehabilitation and optimization, pressure zoning and equipment for operations.
The program has been broadly defined in a report by Bristol Water Services, dated March 2000, which
assessed the performance of the water supply network focusing on leakage and which recommended a
broad investment strategy for system improvement. This include:
a.    replacement, rehabilitation and/or repair of transmission and distribution pipelines and
house connections to reduce leaks;
b.    supply and installation of pumps, electrical equipment valves, pipes and pressure reducers
to improve pressure zoning and the operational efficiency of the network;
c.    supply and installation of production and consumption meters;
d.    supply of operating equipment; and
e.    carrying out of special surveys and analyses.
Guided by this assessment, the Technical Advisor will conduct additional measurements and analysis and
identify further least cost priority investments.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.50 million
C.    Sewerage Network Rehabilitation
Urgent rehabilitation and repair of selected sewers and sewer maintenance equipment and pipe replacement.
This include:
a. replacement, rehabilitation and/or repair of sewer pipes;
b. supply of operating equipment; and
c. carrying out of special surveys and analyses.
-42 -



Guided by this assessment, the Technical Advisor will conduct additional analysis and identify furither least
cost priority investments.
Project Component 4 - US$1;50 million
D.    Institutional Strengthening Fund
Institutional strengthening and capacity building as well as a training plan for MWSU staff. This include:
a. Equipment and materials, software, office and computer equipment in support of the institutional
strengthening program.
b. Training of MWSU personnel.
The Technical Advisor will carry out a training needs assessment prior to planning the training program.
Project Component 5 - US$1.55 million
E.    Technical Advisor/Engineering Services
Technical Advisor
A Technical Advisor will be engaged to assist both project implementation and provide technical assistance
for institutional improvement. The Technical Advisor would assist with network operations, commercial
operations and training to include:
a. Assistance to MWSU in the identification, planning, design and implementation of programs
aimed at (i) improving the operational performance of Mostar's water supply system and
identifying specific investments to be funded under Component B; (ii) addressing the most urgent
repair and rehabilitation needs of Mostar's sewer system and identifying specific investmnents to be
funded under Component C; and (iii) strengthening of MSWU's financial, commercial and
administrative operations through the introduction and/or upgrade of computerized systems and
procedures for connection management, consumption metering, consumer services, billing and
collections and identifying specific investments to be funded under Component D.
b. Engineering services for the preparation of final designs and bidding documents, assistance with
procurement and supervision of construction for investments under components B, C and D.
Project Component 6 - US$1.43 million
F.    Operating Expenditures
Critical expenditures for a two year period immediately following the merger of the two water companies.
Expenditures eligible for financing under this category would comprise energy costs, audits, expendable
supplies and materials. It is vital for the success of the merger that, during the initial period, the merged
utility has sufficient resources so that both workers and consumers feel that the situation is improving.
-43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
Priority Investments                                       0.90         2.04          2.94
Water Distribution Network Rehabilitation and Investment Fund  1.88     1.90          3.78
Sewerage Network Rehabilitation Fund                       0.32         0.08          0.40
Institutional Fund                                         0.27         1.23          1.50
Engineering Services                                       0.51         0.73          1.24
Operating Expenditures                                     1.00         0.43          1.43
0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                        4.88         6.41         11.29
Physical Contingencies                                    0.54         0.71          1.25
Price Contingencies                                       0.36         0.48          0.84
Total Project Costs              5.78          7.60        13.38
Total Financing Required               5.78         7.60         13.38
Works                                                       3.23           1.45         4.68
Goods                                                       0.64           3.59         4.23
Services                                                    0.64           0.92         1.56
Operating Costs                                             1.00          .0.43         1.43
To Be Determined                                            0.27           1.21         1.48
Total Project Costs     5.78           7.60        13.38
Total Financing Required      5.78          7.60         13.38
-44 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
Summary of benefits and costs:
The primary project objective - reintegration of the Mostar water utility - does not lend itself to economic
analysis. The project is one element in a broad international effort to rebuild the physical, social, and
political infrastructure of one of Bosnia's key multi-ethnic cities. All parties to that effort recognize that
short run gains in social or political cohesion from any single project may not be large and are fraught with
considerable uncertainty. However, Bank management have agreed with our international and Bosnian
partners that the totality of the program offers the best opportunity available to restore civil society in
Mostar.
Seen within this general environment, the project has been structured to maximiize the success of
reintegration of a key network utility service. In doing so, it has not sought some obvious efficiency
measures, such as labor shedding, that would be expected in Bank-supported water and sanitation projects.
The decision not to reduce labor is not driven by the low opportunity cost of labor that results from the very
high unemployment rates in Mostar. Rather, it results from the fierce labor, and associated political,
resistance to reintegration that would come from any perception that reintegration was a device to cut jobs.
That would be a challenge worth facing in a more stable social and political environment, but in Mostar
would block the reintegration goal.
Within the constraints defined by the primary project goal, the project team has worked with the utilities to
ensure that proposed physical investments meet the test of economic efficiency. This work reflects itself in
two ways - the specifics of the priority investment program and the rules underlying future decisions about
use of the Investment Funds.
Main Assumptions:
The priority investment program consists of: production metering, safeguarding water sources, and repair
of key distribution pipes. Tests by consultants to the water companies have shown extremely high physical
leakage rates from their systems - 60 to 80 percent. Surprisingly, despite this leakage, MWSU has
basically maintained 24 hour service with adequate water quality and pressure. This has been possible in
large part because the city enjoys two sources of abundant spring water that can supply the city through
gravity flows. These sources are supplemented by wells that handle peak flows on the westem side of the
city, and, currently, all supply on the eastern side. Unfortunately, all but one of the five supply sources
lack basic protection from animal or human intrusion. To minimize the risk of compromised water quality,
the project would provide KMI20,000 for basic physical protection of four sources. This and the
associated investment in production metering simply represents good practice in controlling risk and-
monitoring system operations, and both have been evaluated on a least-cost basis. The rehabilitation of the
600mm pipeline from Radoblje spring, however, will be subject to additional economic and financial
analysis similar to other proposed investments under the Investment Fund.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
The distribution pipes and connections suffer from extremely high leakage rates. Based on BABE
technology monitoring and estimating procedures, main burst frequencies range from East to West between
1,420 bursts to 1,519 bursts per 1000 km per year (about 7 times worse than UK levels). Leakage at
connections averages about 2,300 liters per day (compared to a UK average of about 130 liters per day).
- 45 -



These extremely high average figures mask considerable variability, with a test of individual zones showing
leakage at connections ranging from 1,215 to 3,685 liters per day. These leakage rates create the
possibility of an extremely cost effective leakage reduction program. The engineering consultants have
estimated that a system wide leakage detection and repair program, conducted over a six year period, can
save water at an average cost of $0.077 per cubic meter. This compares to willingness to pay
demonstrated through consumption against metered domestic tariffs of $0.18 and $0.33 per cubic meter
(West and East). Whether the newly available water is taken up by system expansion or it replaces
pumped sources, the overall program promises substantial economic returns. The expected retums of the
urgent repair program have yet to be separately costed, but given that program's targeting on the high loss
districts and pipes, the cost per cubic meter saved will be well below the $0.077 average for the long run
program. Thus, the approximate KM 1.8 million investments in distribution system repairs in the priority
investmnent program already confirmed will have an economic rate of return well above the 12 percent
opportunity cost of capital.
The Investment Funds will go primarily toward the network upgrading program which, as demonstrated
above, has a positive NPV. Modest investment funds will also go to sewer system repair and maintenance.
No effort has been made to calculate economic benefits for that work. The consequence of blocked sewers
is overflows, putting sewerage on the streets and creating the likelihood of human and animal contact and
the potential of disease as a result.
-46 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Income Statements ('000KM)
1996         1998 1s99    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004                2005    2006    2107
EAST  WEST
Reweue
WateWasewater            888.50  3003.80  3892.30  4590.00  4644.97  5125.62  578252  6212.10  6450.80  6483.05  6515.47  6548.05
ConstuctionRevenue               1265.10  1265.10  1365.70  1412.90  1441.16  1469.99  1499.39  1529.37  1559.96  1591.16  1622.98
Othe                              584.50   584.50  2073.40  2114.87  2157.17  2200.31  2244.31  2289.20  2334.99  2381.68  2429.32
Total Operating Revenue  888.50  3588.30  5741.90  8029.10  8172.74  8723.5  9452.81  9955.0 10269.37 10378OO 1048831 10600.35
Operatg&pE es
Persomel and Payroll Tax   997.00  1373.80  2370.80  2831.43  2996.58  3054.34  3113.25  3064.83  3126.13  3188.65  3252.42  3317.47
Utilities                800.70   242.90  1043.60   971.82   991.25   960.53   928.17   841.54   804.72   820.82   837.24   853.98
Mainwnanceandrqpair     415.40   362.90   778.30  2477.59  2527.14  2577.69  2629.24  2681.83  2735.46  2790.17  2845.98  2902.89
Mateials                                            404.10   412.18   420.43   428.83   437.41   446.16   455.08   464.18   473.47
Baddebtawnittenoff       186.20  1473.90  1660.10  2409.19  1857.99  1435.17  1156.50   931.82   774.10   583.47   456.08   327.40
Otr                      213.47   225.93   439.40   258.60   263.77   269.05   274.43   279.92   285.52   291.23   297.05   30z99
Total Working Expene   2612.77  3679A3  6292.20  9352.73  9048.92  817.20    303  8237.34  87o.  8129.42  8152.95  8178.20
Depreciaton             204.50   802.70  1007.20  1251.09  1251.09  1287.20  1440.74  1566.03  1821.61  1951.96  1978.55  1978.55
Total Operdng Expens  2817.27  448213  72994A  10603.82 10300.01  O00440  9971.17  980337  9993.70 1008138 10131.50 10156.76
Net Operating Icome   (1928.77) (893.83) (1557.50) (2574.72) (2127.26) (1280.5) (5136)  152A44   275.68   296.61   356.81   443.59
Interest expense/fees                                                   8.13    42.67    70.86   128.37   157.70   163.68   163.68
Extasonlinary expense             745.00   745.00   249.00
Income Beor Taxes    (1928.77) (1638.83) (2302.50) (2823.72) (2127.26) (128.58  (561.03)   S157   14731   13892   193.13   279.91
Income Taxes                                                                            24.47    44.19    41.68    57.94    83.97
Net Income             (1928.77) (1638.83) (2302) (2823.72) (2127.26) (128 )  (561.03)   57.10   103.12    97.24   135.19   19S.94
WodkingRaso                                 110%     116%/    111%    1OYo    90%/       83%      80%      78%      78%      77/o
Opertn Ratio                                127%     132%.   126%    115so      105%      98ssY    97%      970%o    97%      96%
-47-



Bosnia and Herzegovina: Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project
MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Balance Sheets ('000 KW
199g          1999           2000          2001           2002          2003           2404          2005           2006          2007
ASnS
Cash                            643.40         26095          99.77          95.55          7231         351.92         63819         84651          84927          85190
AcsmasRevable                   5655.60       3075.03        3130.04       3341.14        362029        361290         3533.00       337460         3216.90        305920
Pnisam for Dmbdid             (481250)       (1434.83)     (146050)       (1559.00)     (168925)       (1579.10)     (143520        (1254.60)      (107430)       (89420)
Acomt
NdAaxumsRescivable               S43.10       1640.20        1669.54       178214         1931.04       203380         2097.80       2120.00        2142.60        216560
blvmk.y                         307220        2150.82        107.79        1129.95         952.54       1175.60        1199.11        1223.09       124755         127250
Ot1CutrtAnss                     209.70        133.40         133.40        133.40         133.40        133.40         133.40         13340         133.40         133.40
rota Qo,tasAsset               476840         4185.37       2910.31        3141.04        308929        3694.71       406&50         4323.30        4372.82       4423.40
FixedAsaqs                    2213210        23044.80      23044.80       23166.72       27548.2       3172453        40244.08      4597031        48854.07       5100D20
(Aoowlm   d                   (/755.80)      9715.70)     (10966.79)    (12253.99)    (13694.73)    (15200.76)    (1708237)        (1903434)    (2101229)        091.44)
NetFLxodAssets                 1337630       13329.10       1207801       10912.73       13853,54      16463.77       23161.71      2693598        27841.18       28008.75
ToiaIAse                       18144.70      17514A7        1498852       14053177       16984         2015848        2723020       31253.28       3221.9         3243235
U a    and Equty
OorentLiabd1das
Aca=MPaya1e                     3390.40       465130         4252.61       3523.07        2367.04       1766.96        1067.97        1089.32       1111.11        113333
LmaannDedtCwat                     0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
D    dst1bda                       0.00          0.00           030           0.00           0.00          O.O            0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
Odxb CurO.liablitie              838.00       110620         110620        110620         110620        110610         110620         110620        110620         110620
Fad Cuwrent Llabhaies          422&40         575750         5358.81       4629.27        3473.24       2873.16        2174.17       2195.52        221731        22a9.
Los Tam Ddt                        0.00          0.00           0.00       108337         5689.49       9448.12       17115.71      21026.19       2182393        21823.93
Tob Ll1bUd                      422840        575.           5356.8        5m2.64         9162.73      1232117        1        23     22L71        2404124        2403.6
Eq4FwdAwmta
COtubud Eqiy                     397.40          O00            0.00          0.00           0.00                         0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
Retaadlnowmo                  (2283.80)     (2823.80)      (4951.06)     (6239.64)      (68DO6n7)      (674357)      (6640.45)      (654321)      (6408.02)      (6212.08)
Capital Reserves               15802.70      145S00D        14510S0       14580.80       14580.80      14580.80       14580D0        1453800       14580.80       14580.10
&sphsn  FixedAssess                0.00          0.00           030           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
Rtvaluabm
To! Equity                     1391630       11757.00        9629.74       8341.16        778023        783723         794035        8037.59        8172.78       836872
TOtal         SW d             1144.70       17514-50       14951154      140530         16942.86      2015851        27230.23      312590         32214.02       32432.18
tD ald Equi.y 07/                                 0Y             0%'h         11%            4r2           55%            68%            72%o          73%            72%
ROno
Cunast Ratio                        1.1           0.7            05            0.7            09             13            1.9            2.0            20            20
-48-



MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Funds Flow Statement ('000 KM)
ina     22 20 0 2m                           2w   2    2ma  2m  2m
Sources:
Gross entmnal Cash Genvatim               (1,191.90)  157.05  (261.18) (857.54) (405.14)  968.10 1,266.54 2,182.09 2,252.21 2,312.55
Browings
IDA (Invetment)                               0.00     0.00     0.00     1.55 3,869.76 3,758.63 7,667.60 3,910.47   797.74  0.00
IDA (Operating Expenditures)                  0.00     0.00     0.00 1,081.82   736.36    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
Oter                                          0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Equity                                        0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
TOl Sourcas                                 (1,191.90)  157.05  (261.18)  225.83 4,200.98 4,726.73 8,934.14 6,092.56 3,049.95 2,312.55
1LUm
Capital Prjects (ot including IDA fided O&M)    0.00     0.00    0.00   121.92 4,381.55 4,176.25 8,519.55 5,726.19 2,883.82 2,146.24
Debt Service                                    0.00    0.00     0.00     8.13    42.67    70.86   128.37   157.70   163.68   163.68
Sub-Total                                       0.00    0.00     0.00   1305 4,424.22 4,247.11 8,647.92 5,883.89 3,047.50 2,309.92
IneaOseI)remain Cash                       (1,191.90)  157.05  (261.18)   95.78  (223.24)  479.62   286.21   20&67   245      263
Total                                       (1,191.90)  157.05  (261.18)  225.83 4,200.98 4,726.73 8,934.14 6,092.56 3,049.95 2,312.55
Debt Service Coverage                                                      0.8    21.5    23.8    16.0    14.0    13.9    14.3
-49 -



Bosnia and Herzegovina: Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project
MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Financial Summary ('000 KM)
NPV = 37,076.23
FRR= 14%
Kegv Uldavl n      d Paae n
Walserfaduced(1000 3)        3343212      3359929      3376728     28280.10      17052.90    13710.53     12526.44     11937.91     11597.68     11279.68
TedmaA LOae                      80.          8W          80%         76%/.        60%          50%          45%          42%/         40%/.        38%o
Demi (1000I m3)
Water                         6686.42      6719.86     6753.46       678722      6821.16      685527       6889.54      6923.99      6958.61      6993.40
Tatiff(knhw-3)
Aeage                         0.86         1.19         1.21         1.29         139          1.45         1.49         1.0         1.51         1.52
CollectionREado                  71%          70%S         77%         84%          88%o         91%          92%          94%          0.96         0.97
umnSWtements
OperatingRvnues               5741.90      8029.10      8172.74      8723.95     9452.81      9955.80     10269.37     1037800       1048831     1060035
Operaion rand ruimnabence     2261.30      4112.11      4194.35     4227.69      4260.67      4240.70      4271.86      435730       4444.44      453333
Sdaiestdwags               2370.80      2831.43      299658       3054.34      311325       3064.83      3126.13      3188.65      3252.42      3317.47
BadDebts                   1660.10      2409.19      1857.99      1435.17      1156.50       931.82       774.10       583.47       456.08       327.40
Dqaiaoin                   1007.20      1251.09      1251.09      128720       1440.74      1566.03      1821.61      1951.96      1978.55      1978.55
Opeatilnncone                (1557.50)    (2574.72)    (212726)    (1280.45)     (518.36)       152.44      275.68       296.61       356.81       443.59
berandex tamrnaty              745.00       249.00         0.00         8.13        42.67       70.86       12837         157.70       163.68      163.68
(IDA Fee)
OdE       e                      0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
Taxes                            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        24.47        44.19        41.68        57.94        83.97
Nt income                   (2302.50)    (2823.72)    (2127.26)    (12S8.58)     (561.03)       57.10       103.12        97.24       135.19       195.94
InmtalSorcs                 (1191.90)       157.05     (261.18)     (857.54)     (405.14)      968.10      1266.54      2182.09      2252.21      231255
IDA Cedits                       0.00         0.00         0.00      1083.37     4606.12      3758.63      7667.60      3910.47       797.74         0.00
Geoveane Gnf1s                   0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
ToWal Sources               (1191.90)       157.5      (261.18)       225S3      4200.98      4726.73      8934.14      609256       3049.5       2312.55
Catial Epnditxes                 0.00         0.00         0.00       12192      4381.55      417625       8519.55      5726.19      28U3.82      2146.24
DebtSevice                       0.00         0.00         0.00         9.13       42.67        70.86       12837        157.70        163.68      163.68
TeoulAp alicbons                 0.00         0.00         0.00       130.05     442422       4247.11      8647.92      5883.89      3047.50      2309.92
InCzease/DeraseinCalsh      (1.191.90)      157.05     (261.18)        95.78     (223.24)      479.62       28621        208.67         2.45         2.63
TOdl                        (1,191.90)      157.05     (261.18)       225.83     4,200.98     4,726.73     8,934.14     6,092.56     3,049.95     2,312.55
CucientAacts                  4768.40      418537       291051       3141.04     308929       3694.71      4068.50      4323.30      4372.82      4423.40
LentCttntlLiabUlides       4228.40      5757.50      5358.81      4629.27      347324       2873.16      2174.17      219552       221731       223953
NetC    t Asae                 540.0     (1572.13)    (244.30)    (148&23)       (383.95)      32156        1894.33     2127.78       2155.51      2183.86
NetFixedAssu                 1337630      13329.10     12078.01     10912.73     13853.54     16463.77    23161.71     26935.98     27841.18     28008.75
Totalssets                13916.30     11756.97      9629.71      9424.50     13469.60     17285.32     25056.04     29063.75     29996.68     30192.62
Debt                             0.00         0.00         0.00      1083.37     5689.49      9448.12     17115.71     21026.19     21823.93     21823.93
Equity                       13916.30     11757.00      9629.74      8341.16     7780.13      7837.23      7940.35      8037.59      8172.78      8368.72
Tol LJbklul and EqutY    13916.30         11757.00      9629.74      9424.53     13469.62    17285.35     25056.06     29063.78     29996.71     30192.64
Fia R
WUigRatio                       110%         116%         111%         100%         90%          83%          801%         78%.         78%          77M.
OpatingRatio                    127%         132%        126%         115%         105%         98%.         97           97%Y         97M          96%
Ddet Savice Coveag                                                       0.8        21.5         23.8          16.0         14.0         13.9        14.3
DeWDnbt and Equity Ratio          0%/          0Y6          0%Y.        11%         42%.         55%/.        68.          72M.         73%          72%.
CuTaintRatio                      1.1          0.7          0.5          0.7         0.9           1.3          1.9          2.0         2.0          2.8
-50-



MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE AUTHORITY
Data Sheet
POPULATION                                                            1999
Actual number of customers                                          22,200
Residential water customers                                          19,000
Households with 24 hour water supply (%)                                80
Households connected to public sewerage (%)                             60
Treated sewage (%)                                                       0
Number of employees per thousand water supply customers (%)               5
Residential sales - East
Daily water consumption per capita (I/c/d) -- Actual                   122
Nurnber of persons per household                                          3
Daily water consumption per customer                                   366
Residential sales (OOOm3)                                             1,737
Residential sales (m3/day)                                           4,758
Residential sales - West
Daily water consumption per capita (I/c/d) -Actual                     249
Number of persons per household                                           3
Daily water consumption per customer                                   747
Residential sales (OOOm3)                                             1,635
Residential sales (m3/day)                                            4,480
Industrial sales - East
Actual (OOOm3)                                                         604
Industrial sales (OOOm3)                                               604
Industrial sales (m3/day)                                             1,654
Industrial sales - West
Actual (000m3)                                                        1,372
Industrial sales (m3/day)                                             3,760
Other sales - Humanitarian Organization
Actual (000m3)                                                        1,372
Other sales (m3/day)                                                  3,759
WATER/WASTEWATER TARIFFS
Residential tariff- East
Actual average tariff (KM/m3)                                          0.68
Residential tariff (KM/m3)                                             0.68
Residential tariff((US$/m3)                                            0.38
Residential tariff - West
Actual average tariff(KM/m3)                                           0.38
Residential tariff (US$/m3)                                            0.21
Industrial tariff - East
Actual average tariff (KM/m3)                                          1.85
Industrial: residential water tariff ratio                              4.9
Industrial tariff- West
Actual average tariff (KW/m3)                                          0.77
Industrial: residential water tariff ratio                              2.0
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
Procurement
The project is expected to be implemented over a period of four years. Procurement of goods and works
would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).
For consultants' services, the procurement would follow the Bank's guidelines "Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," (January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999).
There are no co-financiers; therefore, no other procurement guidelines will apply.
Planning. The project cost by procurement arrangements are in Tables A and Al. Prior review thresholds
are in Table B. A project procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major
procurement actions and all other procurement information, including the capability of the implementing
agency, the date of publication of the General Procurement Notice and the Banks review process, is
presented in Tables Bl, B2, B3 and B4. The total value of Bank financed goods and works procurement is
estimated at US$11.95 million out of a total project cost of US$13.38 million. US$1.43 million of project
cost has been allocated to cover operating costs of the beneficiary during the first two years of the project
of which the Bank will finance US 1.0 million.
Grouping of Contracts. To the extent practical items to be procured shall be grouped into major bid
packages to encourage competitive bidding and to ensure standardization.
Implementation. MWSU will manage the implementation of the project, including the supervision of
procurement. The Technical Advisor will be required to have appropriate experience in Bank procurement.
Progress on procurement would be reported to the Bank in the quarterly Project Management Reports
(PMR) prepared by the Borrower.
Procurement Capacity. MWSU will have primary responsibility for procurement. A procurement officer
and procurement assistant have been appointed by the utility with Bank approval to carry out the
procurement functions under the Project. MWSU will be assisted by a Technical Advisor familiar with
Bank procurement guidelines who will assist with preparation of procurement packages. Also, MWSU will
be assisted by experienced staff member from the IDA-financed Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Urgent
Works project that recently closed in 1999. The procurement capacity should be strengthened by additional
training of the designated procurement persons as well as technical staff in MWSU. In addition, training in
Bank procurement procedures will be provided through a workshop during the project launch mission,
planned for October, 2000.
The following action plan will be implemented to strengthen the procurement capacity of MWSU as well as
to provide information and support to all concerned for implementing procurement:
a. MWSU shall appoint the procurement officer and the assistant procurement officer
before the effectiveness of the credit or the project launch workshop, whichever is
earlier;
- 52 -



b. MWSU shall prepare and implement a training program for the procurement and
assistant procurement officers which should begin with training through the project
launch workshop and should be completed within six months of Credit effectiveness;
c. MWSU shall develop a procurement monitoring system to track procurement actions as
well as to produce up-to-date periodic reports for itself and the Bank; and
d. A procurement seminar was held in May, 2000 to familiarize the relevant staff with
IDA procurement procedures and the competitive bidding procedures to be followed for
issuing grants.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods. MWSU does not have any experience in Bank-financed
projects; legislation governing conflict of interest, corruption, and transparency has not been passed; and
standards for procurement which comply with IDA procurement guidelines have not been developed. For
these reasons, the utility has been rated high risk. It is, therefore, reconmnended that the following
thresholds be used:
1. Goods. Goods to be financed under the Credit include: production and customer meters and
appurtenances; pipe and appurtenances; office equipment; computers; off-the-shelf software;
furniture; and O&M equipment.
.     International Competitive Biding (ICB). Goods and equipment which are
estimated to cost more than US$100,000 per contract will be procured using ICB
procedures;
b.    International Shopping (IS). Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$180,000
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of intemational shopping
procedures.
National Shopping (NS). Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost
US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$80,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures.
2. Works. Works to be financed under the Credit include: meter installation; water source
security; transmission main installation; water network rehabilitation; and sewer network
rehabilitation.
a.    International Competitive Biding aICB). Works which are estimated to cost
more than US$500,000 per contract will be procured using ICB procedures.
b.     National Competitive Bidding (NCB) Works which are estimated to cost less
than US$500,000 and more than US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate
amount of US$1,380,000 may be procured using NCB procedures. Bid packages
will use the ECA Region NCB bidding document.
- 53 -



3. Consultants' Services. One large consulting services contract has been identified which would
be subject to international competition. Small contracts will be required to prepare projects not yet
identified which will be financed from the appropriate Investment Funds. The work financed by
these contracts are within the capability of local consultants.
a.     Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). This procedure would be used for
the selection of the Technical Advisor and Engineering Services for Water and
Sewerage Network Rehabilitation and Optimization.
b.    Least-Cost Selection (LCS). This procedure would be used for the selection of
consultants for construction supervision. Short lists for assignments estimated to
cost less that US$200,000 would be limited to local consultants.
c.     Consultants' Qualifications (CoQ.   This procedure would be used for
assignments within the capability of local consultants estimated to cost less than
US$100,000.
dS     Other. The use of at least one individual consultant is anticipated during the
implementation of the project.  The tbreshold for contracts with individual
consultants would be $50,000.
-54 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
0   C  -      M      .   ;   lf:B      , Procument Mehod                 Ho          TotalCost
1. Works                           3.30           1.38          0.00          0.00          4.68
(2.64)        (1.10)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (3.74)
2. Goods                           3.97          0.00           0.26          0.00          4.23
(3.97)        (0.00)        (0.24)         (0.00)        (4.21)
3. Services                        0.00          0.00           1.55          0.00           1.55
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.55)         (0.00)        (1.55)
4. Operating Expenditures          0.00          0.00           1.43          0.00           1.43
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1.00)        (0.00)  _
5. Investment Fund (To be          0.00          0.00           1.50          0.00           1.50
determined)                       (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.50)        (0.00)         (1.50)
Total                           7.27           1.38          4.74          0.00          13.39
(6.61)        (1.10)        (4.29)         (0.00)       (12.00)
uFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
I ncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govenmment
units.
3/ During implementation, the aggregate amounts for NCB and shopping will be determined.
- 55 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Cosltn                                        Sletio    ieho
|A. Firms           1.30      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.50
(1.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.50)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.05      0.00      0.05
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (0.00)    (0.05)
Total   1.30      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.00      0.05       0.00      1.55
(1.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.05)    (0.00)    (1.55)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS - Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 56 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value      Procurement         Contracts        Prior Review
Category           Threshold           Method            Subject to       Aggregates
(US$ thousands)                        Prior Review
1. Works                >500                 ICB                All              3.30
<500                NCB               First             0.50
<50                MW               None               0.00
2. Goods                 >100                ICB                All              3.96
<100                IS                None              0.00
<50                NS               None               0.00
3. Services              >200               QCBS                All              1.30
<200                LCS                All              0.20
<100                CQ                 All              TBD
<50              Individual           A                0.05
5. Operating              NA                 NA                 All              1.43
Expenditures
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:      Not less than US$11.11 million (Does
not include contracts to be identified
with the assistance of the technical
advisor from US$1.5 million the
undesignated project fiuds).
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:                   High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:    One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for
post-review/audits).
- 57 -



Table Bi: Project Procurement Plan
1               2          3             4                                          S       sm
D 1."    TypL'   Eslimated    Prrment  Prequal /SL                  BkdVRFP           Bid          Contrat        ct
scot3      Metd'         llwAoSPN             Preparfon 1JnvibSPN              signig    em*pw
(US$                     2.opering                         2.J pezng
. .   .          '~~~~000)                3. Lvuatlaion                      3. EvahLuaf 
Project Component A - Pionty Invesments (USt3.680 MN)
9/0
Suply of P cn             G          80           is                NA               9/00            1              11/00        1/01
MetesII
Mdas 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/00
ST* yofSecuiity           G         40            NS                NA               9/00            10/00          12/00       2V01
Fening and Lighting                                                                                  11/00
.                                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Supply of Pipe            G         1,305         ICB                NA              9/00            9/00           2/01         7/01
ilVO
I                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12/00
Supply of Pwup and        G         140           ICB               NA               9/00            9/            01/01        5S01
Moto                                                                                                 I1/00
12/00
Supply ofa Veicle,        G          40           NS                 NA 6.01                         7/01           10/01        2102
Corputnr& Office                                                                                     9/01
2/01
Suply ofLeak Ddection     G         100            IS               NA               1101            3/01           5/01         7101
and Nework Analysis                                                                                  3iO
Equaip-m                                                                                             4/0
Relaceet ofLeadog        CW         275           N:B                NA              10/0            11/00          201          "I
Pipes                                                                                                12/00          20            0
1/01          _    _
9/00
Coran tioofP1            CW         400           NGB                NA              910/00                         I            IU0
Staios in Bijelo Polje,                                                                              11/00
and Odacli
Supply and Insallaon of   CW        1,300         ICB                NA              10/00           91            01/01        11/01
600nnPpdipe fiom                                                                                     i2t
Radblie Sp i10
*MWSU will carry out all installation and works under Priority Investments excluding the supply and installation
of 600mm pipeline from Radoblie Spring.
**The supply and installation of the 600mm pipeline from Radoblje Spring would be subject to additional
economic andfinancial analysis as other proposed investments under the Investment Funds.
- 58 -



1         12           3           4                                S Esmaaidat
Daripln'       TiTw     E          Pocurment  Prequaf/SL          Bd/RFP          Bid       Ccntrmt   Conlbmt
c_s         _ Mdho      Italin/SPN     PFpatadn  lIJnvadoiiSN    signhkg  caupidon
1000)                3. Evabwn                    3.Enh_uti
ProjetComponeitB-Water D r mtio NetwrkRbt          d Impan- nt F- nd (US4.721 M n)
301
Sqly ofMetnsard       G       200         ICB            NA            2AD91OI                   71        1101
51001
Sq* yofVaves, Pie     G       2,321       1CB            NA            9A)1                      2/02      083
mid Appftitm  for110
WarNekdc
Rchab~OaW
2101
Installon of Met=    CW        200        NCB            NA            801          401           01       1002
1/02
WarNiwsl k           CW       2,000       ICB            NA           1101           02          5/02      1204
Rehabitand 4d02
Op~tc
Projet Compment < - SewNer Nwork RhAbitanm ad rotvme Flund (SSO .OM n)
SeeNwk             CWV        500         NCB            NA            602   |       02      |1102|   1203
Rebabflitaton                                                                             9/02
Project Compont D - litutional Stm  iFtg d (USS1500 Mn)
Invewet and toamn pagsM to be deied by Tehnical Adhisc
Pisject CompotE-T Ebn-T aI Adisr/iingu rSis (USS1W50 Mln)
_00
Tednical Advisa    CS          800        QBCS                         700          9/00        11/00      11/03
_  _  _ _  _  _ _           _  _ _ _    _  _ _  _   _  _ _  _ _  _   _ _  _ _       11/00
HvingSMcesfor  CS              500        QBCS                       1 0        0  IIo0                    12t03
WatandSew                                         l                                 3.101
wmwawscwmp                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.01
Ndka RRiabfitaon
SnavialcwofWater    CS         200        LCS                         12/01         1201         402       12l)4
NdwokRdiBtB                                                                         3102
and Opdm ilon
SyxrvisamofSe&age X Cs         50       hdidual           NA           5            8/02         9/02      304
|NevckRhab_itaim                     I    __             NA                          NA
rFjecCompntCaF-OpwfatingE- M -(USA30 _Nn)
US$1.000ofypaegcipgpdihur
I Name of bid package.
2 CW for civil works; G for goods; CS for Consulting Services.
3 Expressed in US$ '000; for example 5,000 = US$ 5.000.000.
4 ICB for International Competitive Bidding of goods and civil works; NCB for National Competitive Bidding of civil works;
IS for International Shopping of goods; NS for National Shopping of goods; QBCS for Quality and Cost Based Selection of
consultant firns; LCS for Least Cost Selection of consulting firms; Individual for selection of individual consultants; Other
for recurrent costs based on an acceptable schedule and budget; TBD for To Be Determined; and NA for Not Applicable.
5 If needed.
- 59 -



Table B2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
The designated procurement officer and procurement assistant, selected from personnel from MWSU,
will have primary responsibility for procurement. They will be assisted by a Technical Advisor with
international experience who will assist with preparation of tender documents. MWSU will be
assisted by an experienced former staff of the Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Urgent Works
project that recently closed in 1999. That project involved more than 80 contracts, all tendered and
successfully completed. In addition, Bank procurement procedures will be explained in detail during
the project launch mission.
Country Procurement Assessment Report          Status of bidding documents for procurement
(CPAR): To be prepared in FY01                actions as a percentage of project cost: contracts
signed and/or awarded - 0%; bid documents
Capacity report of implementing agency prepared  ready - 30%; bid documents under preparation -
in March 2000 by Lucas Janssens (ECCBA)       20%.
Table B3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of  Estimated date of  Contracts subject  Domestic   Domestic
Project Launch:    General       to a mandatory    preference for   Preference for
September 2000   Procurement      SPN in           Goods: Yes;      Consultant
Notice: May 1999 Development      Works: No        Services: No
To be updated    Business: Three
annually        ICB contracts and
One QBCS
consultancy
______________  _____________  contract        _II
Retroactive Financing: No
Advance Procurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitor System: The ECSIN procurement monitoring system will be
used to ensure that the ECA service standards are meet for all procurement. All incoming
procurement is logged and sent to the Task Team Leader for action. If the Task Tearn Leader is on
mission, the Program Team Assistant is responsible for ensuring that the Task Team Leader is notified
in the field that an alternate needs to take necessary action.
Co-financing: None.
- 60 -



Table B4: Procurement Staffing
The Procurement Staff as part of the team is: Lucas Janssens (ECCBA).
The two ICB tenders and the selection of the Technical Operator service contract will be review at
Bank headquarters by sector technical staff and Mr. Janssens in the Sarajevo Resident Mission.
ECSIN with the assistance of Mr. Janssens has sufficient capacity to meet the procurement review
requirements of the Project.
-61 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of five years. The closing date would be June 30, 2005.
It is expected that this period would be sufficient to implement the project and to complete disbursements,
given the nature and size of the Project and the Bank's experience with similar infrastructure projects
Allocation of Loan Proceeds Table C shows the allocation of loan proceeds by category and the
disbursement percentages in each category for the Credit.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(1) Works                              3,740,000                  80%
(2) Goods                              4,210,00               100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of (ex-factory costs)
85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
_________________________ 4 i;     X  locally
(3) Technical Assistance/Advisor        1,550,000                 100%
and Engineering Services
(4) Operating Costs                     1,000,000           80% of expenditures
until December 31,
2001 and 60% there
after.
Unallocated                         1,500,000
Total                              12,000,000
* Expenditures under components A, E and F will be processed on priority or as required. However,
disbursements B, C, and D will be conditional in accordance with Development CreditAgreement,
Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (b).
Statement of Expenditure (SOE). A financial management assessment of the two utilities concluded that
neither utility had in place a project financial management system that would allow IDA to disburse based
on the submission of Project Management Reports (PMR). Therefore, disbursements from the loan would
be made by the Bank initially on receipt of full documentation for all project expenditures except those
submitted as SOE. SOE will be used for expenditures for a) contracts for goods and works valued less
than US$500,000; b) contracts for individual consultants and consulting firms valued less than US$50,000
and US$100,000 respectively; and c) all operating costs. MWSU has agreed to carry out an action plan
that, if completed satisfactorily, would qualify them to make withdrawals from the credit accounts on the
basis of PMRs submitted quarterly. The action plan is included in the Project Implementation Plan. For
withdrawals from the credit account based on SOEs and PMRs, full supporting documentation would be
retained by the PIT for at least one year after the close of the fiscal year in which the last disbursement
would take place. This documentation would be made available to the Bank on request.
-62-



Special Account. The beneficiary would establish a Special Account for the Credit at a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Until the Bank agrees to
disburse on the basis of PMRs, the authorized allocation would be US$600,000 equivalent for the Special
Account. Initially, the allocation would be limited to US$200,000 equivalent until disbursements have
reached US$1,200,000 then the full authorized allocation could be disbursed.  Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account not made on the basis of the PMR would be submitted monthly or
when 30 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. Each replenishment
application not made on the basis of a PMR would be supported by the necessary documentation, a bank
statement of the Special Account and a reconciliation statement of the Special Account against Bank
records. Once the beneficiary completes the action plan and receive its financial management certification,
then IDA would make deposits to the Special Account based on PMRs submitted quarterly. The amount of
each withdrawal would be based on a projection of eligible expenditures for the next six months from the
date of the PMR except that the balance in the special account plus the amount to be advanced would not
exceed US$2,000,000 equivalent.
- 63 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
ProectScieu4                                         Plat~fi   7777    MMMU0       ActulI
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         14                             18
First Bank mission (identification)                0-4/05/98                      11/13/98
Appraisal mission departure                        03/13/2000                     04/24/2000
,Negotiations                                      04/17/2000                     05/08/2000
IPlanned Date of Effectiveness                     08/14/2000                     09/01/2000
Prepared by:
Mostar Water and Sewerage Utility
Mr. Mile Pulic (tel) 387 88 318 329/Mr. Mirsad Huseingic (tel) 387 88 315 016
106 Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Preparation assistance:
Policy and Human Resources Development Fund Grant (PHRD) US$367,800
Peer reviewers: Vincent J. Gouame (TWUWS), Andrew Macoun (AFTUI) and Guillermo Yepes
(TWUWS).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name    S7777Iit
Seema Manghee                       Task Team Leader
Walter Stottmnann                   Sector Leader
Bemnard Baratz                      Principal Environmental Specialist
Vesna Francic                       Operation Specialist
Richard MacEwen                     Senior Engineer
Barbara Santos                      Sr. Counsel
Elly K.J. Gudmundsdottir            Counsel
Mohammed Nawaz                      Counsel
Joseph Paul Formnoso                Sr. Disbursement Officer
Lucas Janssens                      Sr. Procurement Specialist
Nikola Kerleta                      Procurement Analyst
Anis Dani                           Sr. Social Scientist
Ramendra Basu                       Private Sector Development Specialist
Siew Chai Ting                      Financial Management Specialist
Milane de Jesus Reyes               Program Assistant
Tainara Noel                        Program Assistant
-64 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project - Minutes of the Project Concept Document Review Meeting
dated December 13, 1999
Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project - Minutes of the Project Appraisal Document Review Meeting
dated March 20, 2000
Memo on Neretva River Quality dated April 2000
Memos related to Quality at Entry Review dated April-May 2000
Memo on Operating Rules of the Investment Funds dated May 2000
Memo related to rehabilitation of the 600mm supply main from the Radobolja spring source to the Glavica
source dated May 2000
C. Other
- Business Plan for the Water Industry in Mostar: An Update for 1999-2004 dated May 1999 by
GHK Intemational Ltd.
- Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project: Demand, Consumption and Water System Network
Analysis Volume I - Consultancy Summary, Assessment of Present Situation and Investment
Strategies dated February 2000 by BWS Handels & Beratungsgesellschaft m.b.H.
- Environmental Impact Analysis dated July 1999 by Kees Schaapveld
- Unification of Vodovods in Mostar - Institutional and Financial Considerations dated August, 1999
by USAID
-  Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project:  Table of Environmental Issues, Mitigation
Measures, Costs and Monitoring dated April 2000
-  Report on Proposed Mostar Valley Sewage Treatment dated December 1999 by William F.
Cosulich
- Audit based on International Accounting Standards and Independent Auditor's Report on J.P.
Vodovod "East" and "West" Mostar, Bosnia-Herzegovina dated December 31, 1998 by Deloitte
and Touche
*Including electronic files
-65 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                        Purpose                                      IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frn Rev'd
P044523        1999 Bosnia-Herzegov           BASIC HEALTH                                         0.00      10.00       0.00       9.36       0.71      0.00
P059763        1999 Bosnia-Herzegov           CULT. HERITAGE PILOT                                 0.00       4.00       0.00       3.84       2.37      0.00
P045313        1998 Bosnia-Herzegov            EDUCATION RECONSTR.                                 0.00      11.00       0.00       1.12       1.52      0.00
P045483        1998 Bosnia-Herzegov           ELEC. POWER II                                       0.00     25.00        0.00      22.93      22.67      0.00
P050892        1998 Bosnia-Herzegov           EM PILOT CREDIT (RS)                                 0.00       5.00       0.00       0.14       0.09      0.00
P045310        1997 Bosnia-Herzegov            EMG PUB WORKS & EMPL                                0.00      10.00       0.00       0.61       0.79       0.00
P062936        1999 Bosnia-Herzegov            ENT EXP FACIL (BEEF)                                0.00      12.00       0.00      10.09       3.99      0.M
P048461        1999 Bosnia-Herzegov           ENTER & BANKING PRIV                                 0.00      50.00       0.00      25.27      -0.44      0.00
P044522        1997 Bosnla-Herzegov           ESSEN. HOSPITAL SERv                                 0.00      15.00       0.00       1.34       2.19      0.00
P045134        1998 Bosnia-Herzegov           FORESTRY                                             0.00       7.00       0.00       6.20       3.05      0.00
P056192        1999 Bosnia-Herzegov           LOCAL DEVELOPMENT                                    0.00      15.00       0.00      14.25       0.01       0.00
P045311       1997 Bosnia-Herzegov            LOCAL INrITATIVES                                    0.00      7.00        0.00       0.13       0.40      0.00
P055432        1999 Bosnia-Herzegov            PFSAC II                                            0.00      72.00       0.00      43.65      68.76      0.00
P048462        1998 Bosnia-Herzegov            RECON ASST-REPUBUKA                                 0.00      17.00       0.00       2.21       1.73      0.00
P045484        1998 Bosnia-Herzegov           TRANSPORT RECON. II                                  0.00      39.00       0.00       3.62       4.11      0.00
Total:        000       299.00        0.00      144.76    111.95       0.00
-66 -



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997/99            Bosnia Micro                   0.00    0.27    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.27    0.00    0.00
1985               Energoinvest                   7.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.92    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Enterprise Fund                0.00    1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.39    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Akova                      1.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.91    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Bosnalijek                 0.00    0.00    2.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.23    0.00
1999               SEF Kopex                      2.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Lignosper                  2.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.81    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Lijanovici                 2.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Sarajevska                     3.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.24    0.00    0.00    0.00
1977               TKA Cazin                      3.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.34    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Agency-AL                4.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Inga                      1.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                Wood Konjuh                    2.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.01    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                Wood Kozara                    1.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.33    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                Wood Podgradci                 1.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.93    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Wood Vrbas                     1.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       35.46    2.07    2.23    0.00   27.49    0.66    2.23    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 67 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: MOSTAR WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                               2/3/00
POVERTY and SOCIAtL                                        and   -Cntral   middle.
Herzoodviyns       As a   in qmee        Development dlamond'
PoOLsationt mid-vear (millions)                             3.8        473     90         |             Life4expectancy
GNP oervceoita(Aties met hod, US$).   J                    920    2,1940    1.i                         Lfex710  ecanc
GNP fAtl:ss method. LSS bK/ions)   :L$ :31039                                   15t57
Pooulatlon  (%I                                            . :      :ftf 0::   GKL;:      :;W;A;0 D     j::: 1.S 5  : 0  ;  .1  r L   :     1.1    (     \
L,borl*rcei%i                               '~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~.7.0 08 1.       GNP                                 Gross
per                               primary
MAt104t0cat estimate Jat    esit vaIiibi, 1t)                                             capita         n\r/mrnmnt
Poverty (14 of oooulatlon below fslaf/ott5l 0...................................  ii ii:i 000. 0X  000 !000;.0 v#r ............ lin
Urban coopistion (1 ofl toteal ooouOflat                    42          68         51
Life exoectanov Sit birth (oears)                           71          8   9      68~
Infant moirtalityv (O 1. 000tc0J  i/r  s)                   13          23         38
Child malnutuitlont% ofch/l/dranunder Si                     .          ..         .                 Access to safe water
Access to 5sat water f% of roouo ini                          .          . iatl    75 
Illiterac v(% ofoooulitione  I                                ,. s4o 15           114
Gross timnarv enroiiinent; % of s$hop-at   0o6u aBon  0.              t0t          o                 Bosnia and Herzegovina
Made                                                                l .  101    05          '     Lower-middle-income group
Fomnae                                                                         16 89   100
KEY Er-OMOMIC RATIOS andl LONC-TERM TRENDS]
19 :     As          I 2r78  15   1957  9sis
Economic ratio*'
GOP i`SS bf/tion.)s
Gross domestti investn*nt1GDP                                                                               Tad
Exoorts of eoods and servicestfDp                                                                           Trade
Grose domestic ssvIn0s/0DP
Gross national savInos/GOP
Current account balance/GDP                                   .      -31.0      -28.2.    Domes tic                        Investment
interest nevmentslGDP                  ..>      5.7 *      2.8     ~~~~Savings
Total debt/Gop
Total debt sirvlce/exootts
Presept vglu of debt/GOP                            ..       ..       26.0
Present value of debtexdnorts                                            a
Indebtedness
fsvers" annuilicrow/hI
GOP                                               I        8 2A5      16.                             Bosnia and Herzegovina
GNP oer c/ta                                                 ..          .          . uX -Lower-m/dd/e-/ncome group
Ex oort a of Goodst sod services
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     19S8        1997       1998      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDPi                                                                                inn
Aariculture                                                   .       17.5       16.4      so                        )
Industrv                                                              27.8       28.9      so
Manufacturina                                     ..       ..          ..         ..     40A
services                                                              54.7"      54.6      20                                    O
Private consumotlon                                 .3    94   as   56   97   Oa
General oovernment consumotion                                                                            0GDi        *GDP
ImDnorts of Goods and services
/sversoa annual orowth)                      1175-RS  lesR-es         197       1          Growth of exports and imports (%)
Aoriculture                                                                               2'
Industrv
Manufsaturln.
Services                                                                                  I
Private consumotion
General oovernment consumotlon                                                            o
Gross domestic investment                                                                        93    94    95   so    07   Oa
ImDorts of noods and services                                                                          'Exports    - Imports
Gross national oroduct                             ..
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators In the countrv fin bold) comoared with Its Income-orouo averaoe. If data are missina, the diamond will
be Incomolete.
-68-



Bosnia and Herzeeovin
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978    1988       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domesffe prices                                                                     2
(% change)                                                                          30
Consumer prices                                 ..
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ..       -5.6     -1.0      10
Govemment finance                                                                  -10     93    4       s s 96           90
(% of GDP, includes curment grants)                                                -20
Current revenue                                 ..      ..       40.4     44.4      0
Current budget balance                          .        ..       0.5     -0.9             -     GDP deflator    e  CPI
Overatl surplus/deficit                        ..       ..       -1.3     -2.8
TRADE
1978    1988       1997      1998      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                                2 .
Commodity 1                                   ..
Commodity 2                                   ..
Manufactures                                  ..       ..
Total imports (ci)                             ..        .
Food                                          ..
Fuel and energy                               ..
Capital goods                                 ..       ..        ..        ..
92   93   94   s5   96   97   98
Exoort orice index /1995=1001                   ..
ImDort odce index (1995=100)                    ..      ..         ..        .                   Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1978     1988      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS millions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                       .               1,002     1,367     o                t
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..    2,606    2,864       4s  92   93
Resource balance                               ..       ..   -1604    -1,498        10
Net Income                                      ..      ..      -228      -111      15           u III              i
Net current transfers                           ..      ..       772       510      20
Current account balance                         ..      ..   -1,060    -1,098       20
Financing items (net)                           .        ..     1 151    1,014     *3
Changes in net reserves                                           -91       85     -s
Memo:
Reserves includina nold (USS millions)         ..
Conversion rate (DEC. IocallUSS)               ..       ..        1.7       1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978    1988       1997      1998
/USS millions)                                                                      Compostlon of 1997 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..
IBRD                                         ..       ..       566       596
IDA                                           ..      ..       292       437                      __      -.
Total debt service                                       .
IBRD                                         ..       ..        36        35          B: 292 .
IDA                                           ..      ..         2         2
Composition of net resource flows
Oflicial grants                              ..       ..
Official creditors                           ..       ..         ..       ..                                      566 s
Private creditors                            ..
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..
Portfolio equity                             ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0       165       153      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                               ..                    B - IDA    D - Other muliateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                         ..       ..         0         0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows
Interest payments                            ..       ..        38        38
Net transfers
Development Economics                                                                                                 2/3/00
-69 -



Annex 11: Review of Financial Management Arrangements
General
A review of the Financial Management System was undertaken between January - February 2000, to: (a)
assess the project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of LACI; (b) review the presence of the
necessary elements for sound project financial management system such as internal controls, project
accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements; and (c) prepare a time-bound action plan for
strengthening the financial management system to achieve Project Management Report (PMR) based
disbursement that would assist the project to move towards LACI. (Report on the Review of Financial
Management System is included in the project files).
Project Management and Coordination
The proposed project is a single operation with MWSU the in Federation of BiH. MWSU, through the PIT
is the implementing agency for the project. MWSU will be responsible for managing contracting and
expenditure under the project and co-ordinating project activities.
Staffing
MWSU has one full time accountant with sound credentials and experience in accounting (acceptable to the
World Bank) for the project. The accountant has good judgment on the maintenance of the books of
accounts and the production of financial information.
Accounting
Project accounting will comply with International Accounting Standards. The local accounting standards,
which are based closely on International Accounting Standards, have been adopted by the FBiH for
effectiveness from January 1, 1999. Currently, donor agencies are providing training to local accountants
with the new standards and implementing the standards.
Project Accounting System
MWSU would be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting. They would
maintain books of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and financial
management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements. The overall principles for project
accounting are outlined below:
(a)    Books of accounts for the project would be maintained by MWSU on double-entry
bookkeeping principles. Project accounts would be maintained using the computerized
accounting system.
-70 -



(b)    Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds (including donors
contributions), and utilization of project funds. All project-related transactions (cash or
non-cash) would be accounted in the books of accounts. This would include contributions
made by donors. Disbursements made by the World Bank and the Special Account
maintained by BiH would also be included in the project accounting system. Funds
received from different sources would be identified separately and reflected in the project
accounts and financial statements.
(c)    Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities of
the project. This distinction would be effected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable
trial balance for the project capturing all project receipts, expenditures, and other
payments under the project would be prepared. A Chart of Accounts for the project will
be prepared. The Chart of Accounts should conforms to the classification of expenditures
and sources of funds indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan,
Project Appraisal Document, COSTAB model). The Chart of Accounts enables data to be
captured to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components;
(ii) expenditure categories; (iii) disbursement categories; and (iv) funding donors.
(d)    Project Financial Statements and financial reports would be fully based on the project
books of accounts, and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
(e)    Physical information on key perfornance indicators which can be readily linked to
financial costs would be part of the project financial management system. Initially, this
would be for some high cost items which account for a significant portion of project cost,
and items for which data on physical activities can be easily captured. These items have
been identified and indicated in the Financial Manual. This list would be gradually
expanded during implementation.
Currently, MWSU does not have computerized accounting software which is capable of producing PMRs
in accordance with LACI requirements. MWSU should design a Project Financial Management
Infornation System (MIS) during the course of project preparation by July 31, 2000. The system will be
designed keeping in mind, inter alia, an accounting and internal control system with the capacity to record
and retrieve in a timely manner, all financial transactions under the project. The accounting system will
comply with internationally accepted standards and will (a) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities,
and financial transactions of the project; (b) provide reliable fnancial information for managing and
monitoring project activities, and (c) provide quarterly PMRs on a timely basis. The accounting system will
be classified by component; it will reflect the sources of funds and will be broken down into different types
of expenditures for the project. Further, it will provide information on the receipt and use of funds and
produce financial reports comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given time. The system will be
capable of providing financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs of the project. This
is an important element of the financial management system.
Accounting and Financial Flows
Draft accounting and financial flow for MWSU is described in detail in the attached Annex IV. MWSU
would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on all activities of
the project. MWSU will need to document the accounting transaction informnation flow for accounting
purposes, in particular the following components:
- 71 -



a)    For Priority Investments, Water Distribution Network Rehabilitation, Sewerage Network
Rehabilitation and Institutional Strengthening Funds. These will be mostly for goods and
civil works and there are few contracts which would be subjected to ICB, NCB, IS, NS,
MW, and procurement audit. There are few small contracts which will be subjected to
procurement guidelines. The financial flow would be simple, based on approved work
schedules or agreed delivery indicators.
b)    For Technical Assistance and Consultant Services. There is one large contract, subject to
QBCS. The payments for the Consultants/consulting services provided will be based on
the submitted invoices and against agreed indicators.
Financial Reporting
MWSU will independently maintain accounts for their part of the project and ensure appropriate
accounting of the funds provided. MWSU will be responsible for designing appropriate 'PMRs and
preparing PMRs on a quarterly basis, and will furnish the PMRs for such period to the Bank not later than
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, which:
(a)   (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and
for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for
the project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)   (i) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances between the actual and
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c)    sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said
report.
A thorough presentation of the PMR requirements has been provided to MWSU staff as well as the LACI
Implementation Handbook and Draft Project Financial Management Manual. By May 15, 2001, MWSU
should submit its first PMRs to the Bank for the quarter ended March 31, 2001.
Financial Manual
The financial manual yet to be completed by MWSU will cover (a) financial management system proposed
under the project, with special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and intemal
controls; (b) role of the financial management systems in project management and implementation; (c)
accounting arrangements required for project management, the format for and content of project financial
reporting; (d) auditing arrangements that will be used during project implementation, and (e) budgeting and
planning. The completion of the financial manual should be done by July 31, 2000.
- 72 -



Risks
From the financial management perspective, this project is considered as a high risk project. There are a
few potential risks relating to financial management aspects: (a) internal controls mechanism in MWSU;
(b) delays in preparation of project management reports; (c) poor accounting environment and few qualified
accountants in BiH, (d) delay in the integration of the two accounting functions, and (e) misuse or fraud of
the Bank's fund; and (e) public perceptions of corruption. These risks are considered as manageable due to
the various risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these are highlighted here in view of their
potential for adversely affecting project performance. These aspects will be monitored closely as part of
project supervision.
Internal control mechanisms by the PIT of MWSU are not yet established and documented and could
require proper implementation. This risk is mitigated by insisting on the completion of the financial manual
prior to effectiveness. Financial manual will include the establishment of financial policies and procedures,
the proper delegation and segregation of financial authorities, the implementation of proper internal control
procedures, and installing proper budgeting and planning process.
There is a risk that preparation of the project management reports would be delayed and that the quality of
the reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that MWSU has not previously
prepared project financial statements or PMRs. Timely preparation and use of the project management
reports, and satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential to facilitate effective project management.
The risk-mitigation factors are the substantial upfront actions which are being taken on (a) design of a
comprehensive financial management system; (b) computerization of the financial management system; (c)
recruitment of key financial staff to augment financial management capabilities. If there is a scarcity of
appropriate software in BiH, the Bank will advise the borrower to look elsewhere for a proven software.
Pending the appointment of the qualified professional staff, disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be
made on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs), but rather on the traditional reimbursement
basis. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR based method, after key professional staff are and the
financial management system is satisfactorily operated.
While there are few qualified accountants in BiH, risk can be mitigated by stipulating the profile of the
desired accountant and ensuring that the Bank has say in the recruited/nominated accountant. When the
Bank concludes that the accounting environment is weak and to build up the capacity within the project -
by not leaving the financial management arrangements entirely to the borrower but by specifying in detail
what we want, via creating a project coordination unit, i.e. ring-fence the project via the creation of the
internal PIT.
It is possible the delay in the integration of the existing two accounting functions (including accounting
systems, data transfer, opening balances, etc.) could have significant impact on the project. In addition, the
system of internal control and procedures has to be re-defined to comply with the financial covenant. This
requires a new organizational structure, where departments have to be combined, responsibilities have to be
allocated and communication structures have to be established. This risk could be mitigated by insisting on
a proper and detailed migration plan and through the provision of consulting services of an experienced
consultant to MWSU.
Concerning the risk of misuse or fraud of the Bank's fund, this will be minimized in the following ways:
(a) Contracts to be signed between MWSU and the winning suppliers or consultants will contain a clause to
assure the utilization of funds according to agreed objectives; (b) Payments linked to performance:
Paymnents to suppliers or consultants to be based on verified deliverables as agreed and stipulated in
- 73 -



contracts; (c) Contracts with suppliers or consultants to be based on appraised capacity; (d) Contracts
(above a specified threshold) will require no objection of the World Bank; (e) close monitoring and
supervision by MWSU - periodic quality supervision will be carried out by MWSU; (f) supervision of
financial flows will be carried out by MWSU on a sample basis and by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank on a yearly basis; and (g) intensive supervision by the World Bank - overall supervision,
including procurement supervision, will be undertaken on a periodic basis by Bank staff.
During 1999 and subsequently, serious concerns had been raised concerning fraud, waste and abuse of
donor funds in Bosnia. Media reports alleged losses of over $1 billion of donor funds. It has been
recognized that there has been an absence of a functioning legal framework and institutions of law.
Enforcement of law is recognized to be weak. In the 1999 Corruption Perception Index, BiH was not
included in the indices. However, we can extrapolate the likely ranking for BiH based on its neighboring
countries - Croatia was ranked #74 with the score of 2.7, Albania was ranked #84 with the score of 2.3,
and Yugoslavia was ranked #90 with the score of 2.0. Therefore we can reasonably estimate the ranking
for BiH of around 80s and a score of low to mid 2.0s. This index relates to perceptions of corruption as
seen by business people, risk analysts and the general public and ranges between 10 (highly clean) and 0
(highly corrupt). Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement.
Even though the project is to be implemented in a business environment with a high rate of perceived
corruption, the risk that Bank's fund will not used as intended for financing the defined investment programn
is judged as acceptable by "ring-fence" the project through the establishment of the internal PIT and by
having suitably qualified accounting and procurement staff in the PIT. Furthermore, the project has
identified several steps, indicated in the above paragraphs, to minimize the risk of misuse or fraud of the
Bank's fund and other risks associated with the project.
Cost and Financial Performance
The project's financing plan, which includes credits and revenues from the bank and the government, and
the project's planned expenditures have been realistically estimated and that the project is financially
sustainable.
The cost tables are based on realistic assumptions, including tariff changes, capital investment, collection
percentage, water losses, staff number, and inflation. In order to facilitate the implementation of PMRs,
the project's cost tables include appropriate cost matrix which adequately show the relationship between
loan agreement categories and project components.
One of the biggest financial risk of MWSU is its ability to service their term borrowings, both the pre-war
and post war debts with this proposed project. MWSU incurred large losses in 1998 and expected to have
losses again in 1999. With the assistance from the financial and technical consultants, MWSU has
prepared a financial model of its likely future financial performance. These financial projection indicate
that MWSU could become profitable after 2003 and beyond.
Auditing
MWSU will be responsible for ensuring that MWSUs financial statements and the project financial
statements (including special account, and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) or Project Management
Reports (PMRs)), are audited by an independent international auditor, a member of a professional body
that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank.
- 74 -



The audited financial statements of the preceding fiscal year, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements made against certified statement of expenditures or PMRs, will be sent to the Bank within
six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a format in
accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion for SOEs or PMRs against which
disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the Credit and SOEs or PMRs which will be
included in the audit report accompanying the financial statements.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and
internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of
project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the project implementing entities have maintained
adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and (c) verification that expenditures submitted to the
Bank are eligible for financing, and identification of any ineligible expenditures.
The 1998 financial statements for MWSU, dated May 13, 1999, were qualified by the auditors on a
number of grounds, including limitations in the accounting system and internal control on revenues,
ownership and valuation of fixed assets, verification of physical inventories, non-accrual of penalties and
late interest on taxes and social contributions on wages, non-accrual of late interest and legal costs for
unpaid electricity bill, etc.
In March, 2000, the utilities used Deloitte & Touche Hungary for the audit of their financial statements for
the year ended December 31, 1999. In accordance with the agreed action plan and by July 31, 2000,
MWSU would need to confirm with the Bank that it will continue to use an international accounting firm,
acceptable to the World Bank, to perform the annual audits of its financial statements.
Disbursements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of five years, which includes
six months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no standard
disbursement profile for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the disbursement forecast is based on the Bank's
experience in financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other projects in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The project's closing date is estimated to be June 30, 2005.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be made on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs)
initially, but rather with the traditional reimbursement basis. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR
based method, after key professional staff are recruited and the financial management system is -
satisfactorily operated. The target date for this conversion is approximately one year after expected project
start date. Proceeds of the Credit would be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6.
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, one Special Account, denominated in US dollars for MWSU.
Until the Bank agrees to disburse on the basis of PMRs, the authorized allocation would be US$600,000
equivalent for the Special Account. Initially, the allocation would be limited to US$200,000 equivalent
until disbursements have reached US$1,200,000 then the full authorized allocation could be disbursed.
- 75 -



Applications for replenishment of the Special Account not made on the basis of the PMR would be
submitted monthly or when 30 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier.
Each replenishrnent application not made on the basis of a PMR would be supported by the necessary
documentation, a bank statement of the Special Account and a reconciliation statement of the Special
Account against Bank records. The minimum amount of each application should be 20% of the authorized
allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. Once the beneficiary
completes their action plan and receives the financial management certification, then IDA would make
deposits to the Special Accounts based on PMRs submitted quarterly. The amount of each withdrawal
would be based on a projection of eligible expenditures for the next six months from the date of the PMR,
except that the balance in the special account plus the amount to be advanced would not exceed
US$2,000,000 equivalent.
The Government will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by IDA under the
Credit, reporting on the use of these funds, and ensuring that audits of the financial statements or reports
are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is envisaged to be established by the PIT in
MWSU. Independently, the accountant at the PIT would maintain accounts and prepare quarterly financial
reports as part of Project Management Reports.
Currently, no local banks in the country can be considered reliable and financially sound. It is, therefore
recommended that banks outside BiH be used until the local banling system is improved.
Conclusion
Currently, the project does not satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. An action
plan was discussed with the directors of MWSU during the appraisal mission. It will require MWSU to
design and implement satisfactory financial management systems to address the above issues. Once this
time-bound Action Plan is carried out successfully, it is believed that the project will have developed an
accounting system that will be able to produce the required level of financial management reports in a
timely fashion.
Action Plan
In order to ensure that the project will have a sound financial management system in place, the following
time-bound Action Plan is presented:
- 76 -



Action                              Deadline
1.    Nominate Project Accountant (acceptable to the World Bank)    May 15, 2000
(completed)
2.    Select and Purchase computerized accounting software. This    May 31, 2000
will include defining the requirements of an accounting
software, e.g.,
Multi-currency capability (transactions and reporting);
Language capability (e.g., Bosnian, English);
Accounting policies;
Reports required;
Contract monitoring and control; and
Compatibility with other project hardware and software
3.    Design reporting requirements for review by Financial         May 31, 2000
Management Specialist. This will include:
PMRs and other World Bank requirements;
Local accounting requirements;
Local tax requirements;
Other donor requirements;
Trust fund requirements; and
Reporting currencies.
4.    Complete financial manual. This will include:                   July 31, 2000
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Designing accounting flows and controls;
Flow of information/documents;
Flow of money;
Internal controls;
Frequency of transaction and controls; and
Budgeting and Planning
5.    Implementation of the computerized accounting software and      July 31, 2000
training of PIT's accounting staff on the accounting system.
6.    Confirmation of using international auditors acceptable to the  July 31, 2000
World Bank.
7.    Visit by Financial Management Specialist to confirm adequacy  August 15, 2000
of project financial management arrangements.
8.    MWSU to submit a management letter on the internal controls,  January 31, 2001
by independent auditors.
9.    First quarterly PMRs submitted to the bank, for quarter ended   May 15, 2001
March 31, 2001.
10.   Assessment of financial management system and PMRs for        August 31, 2001
readiness and capacity to migrate to PMR based disbursements.
- 77 -






IBRD 30888
I6r                                                          18SToZareb    ToOsijek         19'
To Zagreb l          TZagreb         C R O  A T I A              To Vinkovci
~~~tql~~~~~~o sie                 OF.
nt-,+ Re~\> ~t, leat>                ( S E RB ./ M ON T. )
A  r SUl>   5.  -.- 3 r e r S i; >~~~~~~~~~~~~~   p   S
a . 0 ~~~~ <S+9-; ~)IheIMwnrkeS i,.;   o f r
BOSNiA        D:HEr: E.        N                                                  To         Belgrpad
MOSTAR WATER SUPL AN SAIATO PROJECT                                                            
-MUNICIPAl. OIJNDAISIES  fvoo-~ -LVTG'LI      -u   s.       ..                   ... x   10'  -<  "   20'  0s
-   AORROADS   ~     -200 7,    -   =F                                    CZECH  .\POLAI'D/     UKRAINE
+RASLROADs-:S                      '                              -:-f-5Z  / GERMANY \ - REP.r 'f,g'-p<
O  sEECR LC,TE               a                                      TZ S   AUSTRIA,< HUNGARYl\ 
-425   ~    ~      - INT0APNp-UOAIS            -                                                       - ' .. -F ,   "   ROMANtA  Ai
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" "u
.6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TL   IS B/S,I EUGA
CROAA             2
4,4'IS'TO
JUNEr2000



