Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3400 BOS
Project Agreement
(Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
AND
MOSTAR WATER AND SEWERAGE UTILITY
Dated as of October 25, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3400 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of October 25, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the Federation of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina (the Federation) and Mostar Water and Sewerage Utility 
(MWSU).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,100,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that the Federation and MWSU agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower, the Federation and MWSU, the proceeds of the Credit 
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made 
available to the Federation and by the Federation to MWSU on the terms 
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Federation and MWSU, in consideration of the 
Association’s entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the 
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, satisfactory 
to the Association, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, providing for 
the environmental impacts of the Project and proposed mitigation 
measures;
(b)
 "Project Implementing Team (PIT)" means the Project 
Implementing Team to be created within MWSU; and
(c)
"Performance Contract" means the contract between MWSU and 
the Town Council of the City of Mostar for making available quality 
services to MWSU’s customers and for an efficient management of MWSU and 
its assets, funded through the setting, and collection, of cost recovery 
rates.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation and MWSU declare their commitment 
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Association, the Federation and MWSU shall 
otherwise agree, the Federation and MWSU shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Federation and MWSU shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Federation and MWSU shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Association, Federation and MWSU, a plan for the 
future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Federation and MWSU on said 
plan.
Section 2.04. The Federation and MWSU shall duly perform all its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement.  Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Federation and MWSU shall not take 
Page  3
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) The Federation and MWSU shall, at the request of 
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
The Federation and MWSU shall promptly inform the 
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere 
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit, or the performance by the Federation and MWSU of their 
respective obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.06. The MWSU shall ensure that all measures necessary for 
the carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a 
timely manner.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MWSU
Section 3.01. MWSU shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. MWSU shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and environmental 
practices.
Section 3.03. MWSU shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The MWSU shall establish not later than August 
31, 2000 and thereafter maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related 
to the Project.
(b)
The Federation/MWSU shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six (6) months after the 
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this 
Section, for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion 
on such statements and report of such audit, 
by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
Page  4
concerning such records, accounts and financial 
statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, MWSU shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable MWSU, not later than May 15, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Association and the Federation, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period 
covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit 
during the six-month period following the 
period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. By December 31, 2001, MWSU shall have its assets 
revalued based on an assessment carried out by a qualified independent 
organization satisfactory to the Association in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association.  Whenever for the purposes of 
this Section it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of 
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be 
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. By March 31, 2003, MWSU shall have established a 
financial management information system, satisfactory to the Association, 
based on international accounting standards.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
MWSU shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the 
revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net 
revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during the term of the debt 
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its estimated debt service 
requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower 
including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the 
Borrower maturing by its terms more that one year 
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
Page  5
contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for such debt or for the modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and (B) under guarantee agreement, on the 
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the 
difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirement" means the 
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking 
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast 
prepared by the Borrower not earlier than twelve 
months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Association and the Borrower 
accept 
as reasonable and as to which the Association 
has notified 
the Borrower of its acceptability, 
provided that no 
event has occurred since such 
notification which 
has, or may reasonably be expected 
in the future to 
have, a material adverse effect on 
the financial 
condition or future operating results 
of the Borrower.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at 
the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence 
of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to 
the Association.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
MWSU shall take all appropriate actions to ensure that, for each of 
MWSU’s fiscal years following MWSU’s fiscal year ending on December 31, 
2002, MWSU’s projected operating revenues are sufficient to meet MWSU’s 
projected expenses for that fiscal year.
(b)
By or before October 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, MWSU shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by MWSU 
and satisfactory to the Association, review whether MWSU would be able to 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year 
and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association 
a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that MWSU would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for MWSU’s fiscal years covered 
by such review, MWSU shall ensure that MWSU shall promptly take all 
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
Page  6
structure or level of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and of Federation/MWSU thereunder shall terminate on the 
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date thirty (30) years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify Federation/MWSU of this 
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina:
Ministry of Foreign Trade
  and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 71 44 
7575
For the Mostar Water and Sewerage Utility:
Mostar Water and Sewerage Utility
Page  7
106 Mostar
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 88315 016
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of MWSU may be taken or executed by the Director of MWSU or such 
other person or persons as the Director of MWSU shall designate in 
writing, and MWSU shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized Representative
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ E. Gani
æ
Authorized Representative
MOSTAR WATER AND SEWERAGE UTILITY
By /s/ M. Puljic and M. Torlo
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to 
"Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".  
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
Page  8
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, items to be procured shall be grouped 
into major bid packages to encourage competitive bidding and to ensure 
standardization.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $180,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods under Part B and 
the first contracts for works under Part C.1. the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 
Page  9
2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
"Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services under 
Part E of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms for estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  10
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
The MWSU shall maintain a PIT, which shall be responsible for the 
overall implementation and coordination of the Project, with adequate 
staff, fund, facilities and other resources required for this purpose in 
a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.
MWSU shall:
(a)
take steps for the harmonization of its tariffs no later 
than by January 1, 2001, satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
improve collection of water charges at a minimum of 3% per 
year so as to reach at a minimum of 75% of projected yearly collections 
by the year 2003 and, thereafter,  ensure to maintain at least at that 
level for each following fiscal year; and
3.
MWSU shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about July 31, 2003 a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by January 15, 2003, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Procedures and Selection Criteria 
Applicable to Investments
Procedures
The following shall apply to any investments:
(a)
MWSU, with the assistance of the technical advisor, shall 
prepare and submit to the Association for review and approval any 
proposed investments under Categories 1(b) and 2(b) as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, 
in the form and detail satisfactory to the Association, which shall 
include: (i) a description of the proposed investment; (ii) estimate of 
projected costs and expenses; (iii) economic and financial analysis of 
the proposed investment; (iv) environmental impact assessment thereof; 
(v) implementation plan; (vi) procurement schedule; and (vii) an analysis 
of the priority of the proposed investment in terms of its cost 
effectiveness and social impact.
(b)
After the Association approves the investment, it shall be 
deemed to be eligible for financing respective parts of the Project.
Page  11
