Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3400 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated as of October 25, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3400 BOS
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of October 25, 2000, between BOSNIA AND 
HERZEGOVINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Federation of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina (the Federation) through the Mostar Water and Sewerage 
Utility (MWSU) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the credit provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available to the 
Federation and the Federation will make them available to MWSU, as set 
forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Association and the Federation and MWSU (the Project 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) to this Agreement (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set 
forth below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said 
Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 
11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, 
adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment 
to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, 
works and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"MWSU" means the Mostar Water and Sewerage Utility 
established April 26, 2000 by decree of the City Council Meeting by the 
City of Mostar;
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and the Federation and MWSU of even date herewith, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 
B of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(g)
"Subsidiary Credit" means the credit made pursuant the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(h)
"Subsidiary Credit Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower, the Federation and MWSU pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such terms includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement; and
(i)
"Technical Advisor" means the advisor engaged by MWSU under 
Part E of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1, 
2010 and ending April 1, 2035. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2020 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall 
be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events 
set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that 
Page  4
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall cause the 
Federation and MWSU to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of the Federation and MWSU, therein 
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable the Federation and MWSU to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the 
Federation which shall on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to MWSU under a 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, the 
Federation and MWSU, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association which shall include the following:
(i)
the Borrower shall relend to the Federation which 
shall then onlend to MWSU an amount in Dollars 
equivalent to the amount of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to the Categories set forth in the table 
in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(ii)
the term of the Subsidiary Credit shall be 35 years, 
including a 10-year grace period;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge the Federation which shall 
charge the MWSU a commitment charge at a rate equal 
to the rate payable under Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, on the principal amount to of the 
Subsidiary Credit not withdrawn from time to time;
(iv)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance 
of the Subsidiary Credit at a rate equal to the rate 
of the service charge payable by the Borrower under 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement;
(v)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Credit shall 
be repaid by the Federation and MWSU in Dollars and 
shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined as of 
the date or respective dates of repayment) of the 
value 
of currency or currencies withdrawn from the 
Credit 
Account on account of expenditures for the 
Project; and
Page  5
(vi)
the Borrower shall have the right to require 
modification in the repayment terms of the Subsidiary 
Credit in conformity with the provisions of Section 
2.07 (b) of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Federation/MWSU 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year 
after the Association has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine 
such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a)(i) of this Section and those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, 
Page  6
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether 
the Project Management Reports or statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support 
the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Federation or MWSU shall have failed to perform any of 
its obligations under the Project Agreement or Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Federation or MWSU will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement or Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely the event 
specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur 
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, the Federation and MWSU;
(b)
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the Borrower, the Federation and MWSU; and
(c)
a project financial management system satisfactory to the 
Association has been established.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Federation and MWSU, and is legally binding upon the 
Federation and MWSU in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Credit Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Federation and MWSU and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Federation and MSWU in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III 
and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which 
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty 
Page  7
(20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Foreign Trade
  and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
387 71 447575
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Mirsad Kurtovic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Ingram
Authorized representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Goods: 
100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a)  Under Parts A 
1,200,000
100% of local
and E of the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
(b)  Under Parts B,     2,000,000 and 85 % of local
C and D of the Project
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Works:
80%
(a)  Under Parts A 
1,200,000
and E of the Project
(b)  Under Parts B,     2,000,000
C and D of the 
Project
(3)
Technical 
      1,050,000
100%
Assistance/Advisory
and Engineering 
services
(4)
Operating Costs 
        750,000
80% of expenditures
through December 31, 
2001; and 60% 
thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
        900,000
 
TOTAL
9,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that, if the currency of 
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means expenditures on a declining 
basis in respect of electricity bills, audits, re-evaluation of assets 
and staff salaries, as approved by the Association on the basis of the 
annual budget of MWSU.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under 
Categories (1)(b) and (2)(b) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 in 
this Schedule 1 until MWSU, with the assistance of the Technical Advisor, 
has prepared an Action Plan, satisfactory to the Association, for 
investments under Parts B, C and D of the Project.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for 
goods, works and services under contracts costing less than $500,000 
equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
Page  9
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account, in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of the Project 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied 
by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of 
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
Page  10
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraphs 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to six hundred thousand Dollars ($600,000) to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 900,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  11
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
US$2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve water and wastewater 
services in the City of Mostar and promote reconciliation in the water 
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Priority Investments
1.
Acquisition and installation of production meters on water sources 
currently not metered; security and protection device for four of the 
five existing water resources; and pipes to replace pipes with high 
volume leaks and serious damage.
2.
Rehabilitation of a supply main from Radobolja spring source to 
Glavicia reservoir.
3.
Acquisition of equipment to support of  Project implementation. 
Part B:
Water Distribution Network Rehabilitation and Improvement 
Fund
A program of network rehabilitation through: (a) replacement 
rehabilitation and/or repair of transmission and distribution pipelines 
and house connections to reduce leaks; (b) supply and installation of 
pumps, electrical equipment valves, pipes and pressure reducers to 
improve pressure zoning and the operation efficiency of the network; (c) 
supply and installation of production and consumption meter; (d) supply 
of operating equipment; and (e) carrying out of special surveys and 
analysis.
Part C:
Sewerage Network Rehabilitation Fund
Rehabilitation/repair of the sewer system, provision of operating 
and maintenance equipment, pipe replacement, and carrying out of special 
surveys and analysis.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening Fund
Page  12
1.
Provision of office equipment and materials, hardware and software 
in support of Part D of the Project, laboratory equipment, vehicles, and 
carrying out of special surveys analysis; and
2.
Training of MWSU’s personnel based on a needs assessment 
satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:
Technical Assistance/Advisor and Engineering Services
1.
Provision of a technical advisor to facilitate the Project 
implementation, inter alia, through assisting  MWSU with the 
identification and implementation of investments and improvements in 
network rehabilitation and operations, commercial practices and 
institutional strengthening; and
2.
Provision of engineering services for the preparation of final 
designs and bidding documents, procurement under Parts B, C and D of the 
Project and supervision of construction.
Part F:
Operating Expenditures
Provision of funds to finance incremental operating costs on a 
declining basis for a two year period immediately following the merger.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 1, 2005.
