Report No. PID8177
Project Name                     Mauritius-Financial Sector Infrastructure...
Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Financial Sector
Project ID                       MUPE66198
Borrower                         Government of Republic of
Mauritius
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and   The Bank of
Mauritius
Date this PID prepared           August 30, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           October, 1999
Project Board Date               December 2000
1.      Background. Government policy places a high priority on the continuing
development of Mauritius as an attractive off-shore business and financial
center, and in particular, a financial hub and stepping stone for businesses
wanting to provide services to all SADC countries from both Mauritius and from
the envisaged special trade zone in Mozambique. In support of this objective,
Bank of Mauritius (BOM) and the Mauritius Banker's Association, is placing
enhanced emphasis on the need to increase the efficiency and integrity of the
banking system to enhance domestic and foreign user confidence. In addition,
there is a clear acceptance by the financial community that integration of the
Mauritian financial system into the world economy requires that both banking
and non-bank financial institutions adapt to international norms for
conducting financial transactions. The Government is also undertaking a major
project, namely the "Contributions Network Project", whereby all large and
the majority of smaller employers will be connected to the relevant Government
departments via a single point of contact. It is envisaged that this system
will enable the employees to pay their contributions and submit their returns
directly via the single point of contact. The contributions covered by the
"Contributions Network Project" include corporate tax, income tax, Value
Added Tax, National Pension Fund contribution, Industrial & Vocational
Training Board Levy and company Registration. Moreover all standard
information supplied/submitted will be maintained on a database at the single
collection point. The proposed payments system reform project will greatly
assist this Government project.
2.      There is   also concern over the frequency of auction failures; managing
the exchange risk on foreign debt; the build up of short term domestic debt;
managing the impact of funding risks on the budget; and lack of liquidity in
the money and debt markets; and that these factors increase government's
funding costs unnecessarily and also increase private funding costs, reducing
Mauritius's appeal as an off-shore business and financial center. The Minister
of Finance made a commitment to improving government debt and cash management
in his 1999-2000 Budget Speech. The BOM and the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
desire greater efficiency in the government's financing operations in order to
both assist the development of financial markets and lower the government's
funding costs.



3.      Project Description.   The Project consists of two components:
Component 1- Payment Systems. The project will assist the Bank of Mauiritus
on the construction and implementation of a modern Real Time Gross Settlement
(RTGS) system and the associated real-time cash management support functions
required by both BOM, MOF and the commercial banks to make optimum use of the
available liquidity without credit risk or adverse monetary policy
implications. In addition, to the basic RTGS funds transfer service, the
project will address the following specific needs:
-Introduce "Cash Management Services" to the MOF and commercial banks to
permit intra-day monitoring of balances maintained in the new RTGS settlement
accounts;
-separate settlement funds from bank reserves on deposit with the Bank of
Mauritius to ensure that reserves are not automatically used to fund intra-day
commercial bank liquidity requirements; and
-provide the basis for supporting a Delivery versus Payment (DvP) settlement
mechanism in regard to the issue and trading of government securities.
Component 2-Government Financing Operations. This component aims to improve
governments financing operations by providing specific assistance for: i) the
legal and regulatory mechanisms necessary to support a move to electronic
payments; ii) the technical work requested by MOF to support capacity
building in government financing operations ; and iii) harmonizing the legal
and regulatory system in Mauritius with the western world.
4.      Project Financing.   The Project cost, including contingencies, is $ 6.3
million equivalent. And IBRD will finance $ 5.0 million equivalent.
5.      Project Implementation..   The Government of the Republic of Mauritius
has confirmed that the implementing agency will be the Bank of Mauritius (BOM)
for the payments system component will be the Bank of Mauritius (BOM). The
Ministry of Finance will implement the debt and cash management component.
6.      Overall responsibility for project design and implementation of the
payment system component has been assigned to the Managing Director of the
Bank of Mauritius. Day by day project activities will be coordinated by the
Director of Operations of the Bank of Mauritius in regard to banking
operations matters, and by the Information Technology, Manager of the Bank of
Mauritius in regard to information technology matters. Both will report to the
Managing Director.
7.      A Project Coordination Committee(PCC) is being established under the
chairmanship of the Managing Director of the Bank of Mauritius. Membership
will include the Project Coordinators, senior representatives of the Mauritius
Bankers Association, and other user representatives nominated by the Managing
Director to ensure the active representation of all potential users.
Specialist work groups will be established by the PCC to undertake specific
tasks on an as required basis. Membership of these work groups will include
appropriate BOM, Commercial Bank and other specialists. For example, a Legal
Work Group is being established as a matter of urgency to address the need for
legal and regulatory changes.
9.      Project participants recognize that rigorous disciplines will be
required to manage project scope, schedule and cost. Standard project
-2 -



management practices will be adopted and implemented.
10.     Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement.     The first lesson to be
drawn from Bank / IDA experience is that the design, development and
implementation of an appropriate nationwide payments system is a complex
process requiring the active involvement of all participants. It also requires
a sufficiency of time and resources. The second lesson is that a proper
sequencing of individual components is essential. Whereas speed of
implementation is obviously important, the quality of the work is more
important as any major implementation problems, such as a loss of a payment
message, will result in a loss of confidence in the entire system by the
ultimate enterprise and individual users. Project preparation activities will
be undertaken with the active participation of all stakeholders. Also, an
appropriate project management structure will be put in place to ensure that
stakeholder views are fully represented in all design and implementation
planning decisions.
11.     The Bank / IDA experience also indicates the need for a rigorous
approach to providing an appropriate legal & regulatory framework and the
development and enforcement of suitable standards covering all critical
aspects of payment system operation. This has already been recognized by the
BOM and steps will be taken to expose them to other country practices in these
areas through the hiring of specialist consultants. Legislation governing the
current payment arrangements in Mauritius is covered by: i) Bank of Mauritius
Act (1966), ii) Banking Act (1988) amended in 1992, and iii) bills of Exchange
Act (1914). BOM and the Banker's Association recognize the need for a new act
to cover electronic means of payment. Substantial work is in progress in this
regard a new "Financial Services Act" is currently being drafted and will
incorporate regulation on electronic means of payment and electronic fraud.
12.     The primary lesson of Bank/IDA experience in developing capacity in
government financing operations is that cooperation between, and commitment
from, both the central bank and the ministry of finance is essential for fully
successful implementation. Secondly, while many of the changes on the central
bank side can occur relatively rapidly once agreement is reached, the full
range of developments required of the ministry of finance can only take place
over a time period of several years because of extensive inter-connections
with general government budgetary management and the required changes to
government operating procedures. The demonstrated commitment of both the BOM
and MOF to this project is thus a key element in proceeding with the
government financing component.
13.     Environmental Aspects.   This project does not have environmental
aspects.
14.     Program Objective Category.   The project supports the Banks Financial
sector and Private sector development Objectives.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW,
-3-



Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Telefax:      (202) 522-1500
Robert Keppler
Task Manager
(202)458-4792
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 24, 1999.
- 4 -



