Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19888-MAS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.75 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
FOR THE
FINANCIAL SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MARCH 14, 2000
Private Sector Finance Unit
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = MNUR
25.4= US$
US$ 1 = 25.4 MUR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
BOM                  Bank of Mauritius
SADC                 Southern African Development Committee
RTGS                 Real Time Gross Settlement
DPS                  Direct Participants System
MACSS                Mauritius Automated Clearing and Settlement Systems
CPSS                 Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems
BIS                  Basel Internet Committees and Bank Supervision
LAN                  Local Area Network
PCC                  Project Coordination Committee
LACI                 Loan Administration Change Initiative
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager/Director:   Gerard A. Byam
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu



FINANCIAL SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         6
3. Benefits and target population                                                        6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             11
2. Financial                                                                            11
3. Technical                                                                            12
4. Institutional                                                                        12
5. Environmental                                                                        13
6. Social                                                                               13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       14
2. Critical risks                                                                       14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       14



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            16
2. Other                                                                              16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Annex 2: Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MAP(S)
IBRD 24629



MAURITIUS
Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPF
Date: March 14, 2000                              Team Leader: Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu
Country Manager/Director: Michael N. Sarris       Sector Manager/Director: Gerard A. Byam
Project ID: P066198                               Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
1 Loan         C Credit        D Grant         El Guarantee    E Other (SpecifNi)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.75 including front-end fee
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 4.5                             Years to maturity: 12.5
Commitment fee: .85% for the first                    Service charge: %
four years, .75% thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 0.01%
Government                                                     0.25           1.13           1.38
IBRD                                                           0.00           4.75          4.75
IDA
Total:                                                         0.25           588
Borrower: BANK OF MAURITIUS
Responsible agency: BANK OF MAURITIUS
Address: Sir William Newton Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
Contact Person: Mr. B.R. Gujadhur, Managing Director
Tel: (230) 208-4164                Fax: (230) 211-5101               Enmail: brgujadhgbom.intnet.mu
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual      1.0          3.0         0.8
Cumulative     1.0          4.0          4.8
Project implementation period: 24 months
Expected effectiveness date: 08/30/2000  Expected closing date:  01/30/2002
oOCS PADF8   PF  Morol. 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Minister of Finance made a commitment to improve Govermnent's debt and cash management in his
1999-2000 Budget Speech. The BOM and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) desire greater efficiency in the
Government's financing operations in order to both assist the development of financial markets and lower the
Government's funding costs. In addition, to maintain economic growth, the government's strategy is to manage
carefully the economy" maintain public expenditure within reasonable limits and strengthen the current partnership
between the private sector and the State.
The proposed project supports these development objectives by (i) providing the essential financial system
infrastructure to facilitate the secure, rapid and certain transfer of funds domestically, while simultaneously
providing a basis for supporting the introduction of payment versus payment (PvP) and delivery versus payment
(DvP) mechanisms, as advocated by the BIS Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems (CPSS). The above
contributes to eliminate the foreign exchange settlement risk (cross-currency risk) in cross border payments and the
failure to deliver (funds or securities) risk in both domestic and cross-border securities transactions; and (ii)
providing the capacity building required to enhance the Government's debt management and interaction with
financial markets. Also, the project conforms to the objectives of the overall SADC initiative to modernize and
strengthen the domestic and cross-border payment systems in all member countries. The Mauritian project is seen
as a high quality demonstration project for other SADC countries and is therefore being given high visibility by the
SARB / SADC project members.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The leading indicator of project success for the payments system component will be the amount of payments value
that passes through the envisaged new system on a daily basis. Specific targets will be set to progressively increase
the aggregate total payments value that is processed by the RTGS system from a figure of 33% of total value at
system cut-over rising to as much as 75% of total payments value by the end of the third year of operation. Other
monitoring factors will include (i) a demonstrable reduction in large value checks; (ii) the availability of
appropriate intra-day liquidity arrangements; and (iii) a high level of overall system availability progressively
rising from 98.6 % to 99.9 % over a one year period.
Another primary indicator of project success will be System Availability measured as service time available to the
commercial banks. Realistic targets will be set and will progressively require availability levels increasing from
98.6 % to 99.9 % over a one year period.
Indicators of success in regard to the government financing operations component will be (i) reduced auction
failure; (ii) establishment of a debt strategy and the movement of the stock of debt into closer conformitv with the
strategy; (iii) less volatility in banking system liquidity; and (iv) greater transactional liquidity in the money and
debt markets.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16426 MAS                           Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/22/97
Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (See Annex 1):
The CAS identified the expansion of international services, including financial, as a means to diversify sources of
growth and employment, and included the positioning of Mauritius as a regional and international service center
among the strategic goals of the Government. The introduction of a new payment clearing system was explicitly
mentioned as a means to attain this goal, notably by lowering cost of financial services (para. 36).
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Government policy places a high priority on the continuing development of Mauritius as an attractive business and
financial center and, in particular, a financial hub and stepping stone for businesses wanting to provide services to
all SADC countries from both Mauritius and from the envisaged special trade zone in Mozambique. In support of
this objective, the Bank of Mauritius (BOM) and the Mauritius Banker's Association, are placing enhanced
emphasis on the need to increase the efficiency and integrity of the banking system to enhance domestic and
foreign user confidence. In addition, there is a clear acceptance by the financial communuity that integration of the
Mauritian financial system into the world economy requires that both banking and non-banking financial
institutions adapt to international norms for conducting financial transactions. The Govermment is also
undertaking a major project, the "Contributions Network Project", whereby all large and the majority of smaller
employers will be connected to the relevant Government departments via a single point of contact. It is envisaged
that this system will enable the employees to pay their contributions and submit their returns directly via the single
point of contact. The contributions covered by the Contributions Network Project include corporate tax, income
tax, value added tax, National Pension Fund contribution, the Industrial & Vocational Training Board and the
Levy and Company Registration Tax. Moreover, all standard information supplied/submitted will be maintained
on a database at the single collection point.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The specific objectives of the proposed project are to (i) improve the quality of payment services to further reduce
float, speed up circulation of funds and increase efficiency of funds transmission, while providing convenience and
services to users; (ii) provide appropriate tools to BOM, MOF and participating commercial banks to facilitate
enhanced cash management and avoid credit and liquidity risk; (iii) improve the attractiveness of Mauritius as a
potential financial hub by providing state-of-the-art payment services in a manner that demonstrably balances
efficiency, cost and risk; and (iv) improve the Government's debt management and interaction with financial
markets in order to both improve market efficiency and lower the Government's funding costs.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1: Payment Systems
The project concentrates on the introduction of a modern Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system in Mauritius
and the associated real-time cash management support functions of BOM, MOF and the conunercial banks to make
optimum use of available liquidity without credit risk or adverse monetary policy implications. The project also
provides support in setting up the legal and regulatory framework for the operation of the RTGS system. The
project will also:
*   introduce "Cash Management Services" to the MOF and commercial banks to permit intra-day monitoring
of balances maintained in the new RTGS settlement accounts;
*   separate settlement funds from bank reserves on deposit with the Bank of Mauritius to ensure that reserves
are not automatically used to fund intra-day commercial bank liquidity requirements; and
*   provide the basis for supporting a Delivery versus Payment (DvP) settlement mechanism in regard to the
issue and trading of government securities.
-3 -



This component will consist of following sub-components:
A. Computer Based Application Software Systems: Under this sub-component, the RTGS system will be
established along with the Direct Participants Systems for the commercial banks and the Ministry of Finance.
B. Project Support: This includes specialized services required by BOM to temporarily support the permanent
management team  during the preparation, procurement, development, user acceptance testing, and initial
implementation phases of the new arrangements. It will include project management, teclhical support, quality
assurance activities and assistance in establishing legal and regulatory mechanisms for the operation of the RTGS
and electronic payments.
C. Computer and Telecommunications Equipment: This includes the equipment required to support the
MACSS computer architecture, the DPS workstation architecture, and the MACSS network architecture.
Component 2: Government Cash and Debt Management
This component will be implemented in two stages. The first stage of the component will identify (i) the priority of
the risks to be managed in the context of Mauritius; and (ii) the constraints on the Goverrnent's ability to manage
its debt and cash positions. The Government will be exposed to different approaches to debt and cash management
and, based on the analysis of the situation in Mauritius, will be given a recommendation as to wlhich approach is
likely to prove most cost/benefit efficient. To enable the MOF to select an approach to debt and cash management
and the resources it is prepared to commit, the MOF will be provided with an analytical framework for developing
debt and cash management and an assessment of practical considerations in Mauritiuis that will influence the type
of debt and cash management strategies and operations stuited to local conditions. The Ministry will also be
provided guidance on a number of issues as a result of the project including, but not limited to developing
benchmarks, degree of required activism, continent liability, management of government assets, proactive cash
management and intergovermnental relations.
The second stage of the component will implement the development plan agreed upon during the first stage. The
implementation plan will prioritize development activities based on need and capacity constraints and will include
technical development of tools such as benchmarks; development or acquisition of information and analytical
systems required to support debt and cash management; and training for staff in the usse of the tools and systems
and in risk and portfolio management.
Cash Management systems will also benefit from the establishment of MACSS. The RTGS system will link the
MOF directly with the automated payment system and the MOF through a terminal to be located at the Treasury.
This terminal will be capable of supporting multiple terminals in the MOF through internal LAN. The Treasury
will also be able to transfer funds between designated Government Accounts within BOM once all such accounts
are properly designated. Hence, MOF will have added instantaneous flexibility managing Government's cash flows
via RTGS system.
2. Project Costs
The cost estimates for system acquisition for the payment system component and the debt and cash management
components are summarized in the Table below. The base information for the system acquisition has been
discussed and agreed upon with specialist staff from the Ban-k of Mauritius and from the Mauritius Bankers
Association. The costs for the cash and debt management component are based on the assumption that a less
complex and less activist approach to debt mnanagement will prove to be appropriate, which reduces information
systems requirements. The Ministry of Finance indicated its agreement to this approach. There are also practical
reasons to adopt such an approach. A relatively simpler structure at the beginning will help the Ministry staff to
focus better on the basic structure of the debt management issues and linkages with the Government's cash needs.
The less complex structure would also facilitate a better absorption of the tecluical assistanlce.
-4 -



(US$IVI)    TotAt  (US$M)-' an   finanin
1. PAYMENT SYSTEM                                         0.00        0.0       0.00        0.0
A. Application Development and                            1.50        24.5       1.20      25.3
Project Support
B. Telecom & Processing Equipment                         2.00       32.6        1.60      33.7
including embedded system software
2. DEBT AND CASH                                          0.00         0.0      0.00        0.0
MANAGEMENT
A. Cash Mgmt. Consulting                                  0.12         2.0      0.10        2.1
B. Debt Mgmt. Consulting                                  0.24        3.9       0.19        4.0
C. Training                                               0.12        2.0       0.10        2.1
D. MOF System Development                                 1.10        17.9      0.88       18.5
3. Contingencies                                          1.00        16.3      0.63       13.3
Total Project Costs                      6.08        99.2      4.70       99.0
Front-end fee                      0.05        0.8       0.05        1.0
Total Financing Required                       6.13      100.0       4.75      100.0
Explanatory Notes
Line item # L.A includes the application development costs for all development, testing and implementation
and will cover the RTGS system, and the Direct Participant System (DPS) software. Costs for network and
systems management are shown under line item #2. In addition, this item includes the estimated support
costs for the BOM to obtain professional services for project management, technical support, and
internal training prior to the start of project development.
Line item # 1.B includes all computer, security and telecomununications equipment and support software for
the cenitral site at Bank of Mauritius plus a set of equipment to implement the fully redundant and operational
disaster recovery site. A specific gateway to link the payments system with the BOM accounting system is also
included. In addition this item includes one conmiercial bank and one MOF workstation plus the appropriate
hardware security modules. It is assumed that additional costs, for example the connection to internal systems
will be borne directly by each conimercial bank and the Ministry of Finance and will vary with the required
number of additional terminals and other required equipment.
Line item # 2.A and 2.B include the estimated sum of the cost of two phases. Estimates show that the
first stage costs would be $62,520, equally divided between cash and debt management. The remaining
amounts for these sub-components are for the second stage work.
Line item # 2.C will be incurred during the second stage work.
Line item # 2.D includes costs for both cash and debt management. Of the total amount for this
purpose, $1 mil. is estimated for the debt management needs while the remaining is for the cash
management.
-5 -



Line item #3 reflects financial contingencies. This is estimated based on the market conditions and by
taking into account typical variances between different vendor prices of the RTGS system and allowing
for higher fees for consultancy services for the debt and cash management side and higher costs for
training.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Well designed large value funds transfer systems must provide acceptable trade-offs between efficiency and risk
mitigation. Settlement and systemic risks arise in the operation of any large value funds transfer system. BOM
recognizes this and has determined that the envisaged automated clearing and settlement system will provide gross
settlement services in real-time. Only credit payment instruments will be accepted and payment transactions will
be immediately settled in the books of the central bank, subject to funds being available on the sending banks
account.
The main policy objectives of the proposed system are:
*   elimination of settlement risk in the payments systems for large value funds transfers and for other financial
markets in Mauritius to strengthen the country's financial infrastructure;
*   support for the Government securities market to eliminate risk, increase transaction processing efficiency, and
increase the liquidity of the secondary market through efficient recycling of liquidity;
*   consistency with international best practice to improve the international standing of the Mauritian financial
system;
*   quantify and manage the fiscal risk posed by the structure of the Government's debt; and
3   improve active management of cash flows in order to improve the operation of the money market.
3. Benefits and target population:
A broad description of the targeted benefits are embedded in the statement of project objectives (as mentioned
above).
Specific benefits include the following:
BOM, Government and commercial baniks and commercial bank customers will have the capability to irrevocably
and unconditionally transfer funds in a near real-time basis and thus discharge time sensitive payment obligations
on an intra-day basis;
*   commercial banks will have a secure basis for optimizing the use of their available liquidity without exposing
the banking system to inter-bank credit risk;
*   MOF and commercial banks will have a set of tools to facilitate rigorous cash management and ensure that
excess funds in reserve and settlement accounts are available for revenue earning purposes.
*   BOM will have the opportunity to demonstrably enhance the integrity of the nation's paymenit mechanisms
through the application of well defined and published risk management policies covering credit, liquidity and
systemic risk;
*   BOM banking supervisors will have near real-time access to commercial bank positions as measured by
reserve account balances, interbank payment flows, and usage of BOM intra-day credit facilities;
*   better Government cash and debt management will promote finanicial market efficiency through lower
volatility in system liquidity and money market interest rates, and increased transactional liquidity, increasing
the attractiveness of Mauritius as a business and financial center;
*   improved debt management will lower Government funding costs as well as any potential long-term risk to
-6 -



fiscal stability posed by the structure of Government debt; and
*   establishment of the basis for a sustainable development of the electricity sector will lead to better sector
performance.
Target populations include all financial sector institutions and their customers. The project is designed to satisfy
the specific needs of the different market sectors for secure and reliable time sensitive payment services. These
market sectors include (i) the personal sector and retail sectors; (ii) industrial and commercial sector; (iii) financial
markets sector; (iv) foreign trade sector; and (v) the govermnent and public sector.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
In view of the fact that the greater portion of the project will be implemented by the Bank of Mauritius, the
Government requested that BOM assume overall implementation responsibility for the project, including
maintaining all the recording and reporting requirements. BOM will also be responsible for facilitating the flow of
funds to the Ministry of Finance for the implementation of the cash and debt management component. While
BOM  will maintain the overall responsibility, a dedicated project implementation team has also been created
within the Ministry of Finance to assure successful implementation of the cash and debt management component of
the project. The specific implementation arrangements for each of the components are presented below.
Overall responsibility for project design and implementation of the payment system component has been assigned
to the Managinig Director of the Bank of Mauritius. Day-by-day project activities will be coordinated by the
Director of Operations of BOM in regard to banking operations matters, and by the Information Technology,
Manager of BOM in regard to information technology matters. Both will report to the Managing Director. A
Project Coordination Committee (PCC) is also being established under the chairmanship of the Managing Director
of BOM. Membership will include the Project Coordinators, senior representatives of the Mauritius Bankers
Association, and other user representatives nominated by the Managing Director to ensure the active representation
of all potential users. Specialist work groups will be established by the PCC to undertake specific tasks on an as
required basis. Membership of these work groups will include appropriate BOM, commercial banks and other
specialists. For example, a Legal Work Group has already been established as a matter of urgency to address the
need for legal and regulatory changes. Project participants recognize that rigorous disciplines will be required to
manage project scope, schedule and cost. Standard project management practices will be adopted and
implemented.
As for the debt and cash management component, the Director of Public Finance has been designated by the
Financial Secretary as the Project Coordinator who heads a team consisting of officials from the Treasury
Department. The Financial Secretary and the Accounting General will also closely monitor the implementation
progress as the component essentially has enabled them to create a permanent department within the Ministry of
Finance.
Accounting and Financial Reporting
The BOM will be responsible for maintaining all relevant accounts for the entire project and producing anmual
financial statements in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. The MOF will also keep
separate accounts for all transactions related to the cash and debt management component. It will assist the BOM
in consolidating the project accounts. The Ministry's assistance will be especially critical in accounting for
Government funds utilized for project purposes.
Project Management Report
In accordance with Bank policy and procedures, the project needs to adopt a financial management and reporting
system in compliance with Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). Given the short disbursement period of
this loan (2 years) and since the accounting staff in both BOM  and MOF is not yet familiar with the LACI
procedures, it is more efficient for the project to use the traditional disbursement methods. In this case, the project
will produce the basic financial statements annually and submit on a quarterly basis the following reports: a
- 7 -



Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, a Contract Expenditure Report-Goods and Works, a Contract Expenditure
Report-Consultants, a Procurement Management Report-Goods & Works, and a Procurement Management
Report-Consultants. Should the project require an extension for another year, an assessment will be carried out
before the closing date to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system
that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR)
required by the Bak/IDA.
Auditing
The project's financial statements will be audited by the Mauritius Audit Department, the Suprenme Audit
Institution in the country. It is an independent public office whose status is clearly defined in the Constitution and
is staffed with personnel who collectively have the necessary skills and experience in auditing. The Audit
Department will carry out the review in accordance with international auditing standards and will provide an
opinion on (i) the financial statements; (ii) the use of the special account; and (iii) the statement of expenditures.
The auditor will also indicate in the audit report, especially in the section Management letter, significant
deficiencies in the design Or operation of internal controls and propose relevant reconmiendations for their
improvement. The audit report is to be sent to the Bank within six months after the closing date of the fiscal year.
The terms of reference of the audit will be reviewed by a Bank/IDA Financial Management Specialist.
Procurement
EBRD Guidelines for procuring goods and consultant's services will be observed for all procurement activity. The
GPN and the EIN for the RTGS have already been published with clearance of the IBRD Procurement specialists.
The BOM has also sought the no-objection to the bid package along with the short-list. No objection to these
requests were again cleared with the procurement specialist and issued to the BOM.
Disbursement of IBRD funds
Disbursements from IBRD will be made on the basis of incurred eligible expenditures. The IBRD will make
advance disbursements from the proceeds of the Loan by depositing into an operational special account, which will
be opened in the name of the BOM for an amount of US$1,000,000 to expedite project implementation. The
advance in the Special Account will be used by the executing agency to finance IBRD's share of project
expenditures under the Loan. Another acceptable method of withdrawing funds from the Loan is the direct
payment method, involving direct payments from the Credit to a third party for goods and services. Payments may
also be made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IBRD special commitments covering a conmercial
bank's Letter of Credit. IBRD's Disbursement Letter will stipulate a minimum application value for direct payment
and special commitment procedures. These disbursement methods will be used during the two years of project
implementation.
Upon loan effectiveness, the BOM will submit a withdrawal application for an initial deposit to the Special
Account, drawn from the IBRD Loan, in the amount to be agreed during negotiations. Replenishment of funds
from IBRD to the Special Account will be made upon evidence of satisfactory utilization of the advance, reflected
in the SOE's and/or on full documentation for payments above the SOE thresholds. Replenishnient applications
should be submitted regularly. If ineligible expenditures are found to have been nmade from the Special Account,
the Borrower will be obliged to refand the same. If the Special Account remains inactive for more than six
months, the Borrower may be requested to refund to IBRD amounts advanced to the Special Account.
- 8 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The principle strategic choice rade by BOM  and the Banker's Association during prelininhary discussions
concerned the need to computerize the present manual of procedures utilized by the Port Louis Clearing House.
The present arrangements are managed by BOM and consist of three clearing sessions per day during which some
24,500 items are cleared. Settlement takes place on a net basis at the end of the day. Port Louis-originated itemns
are cleared on the day of presentment with funds being made available to customers on a next day basis. Items
originating outside Port Louis are cleared within two days with funds being available to customers on the third day.
This arrangement is considered acceptable for low value payments and compares well with international
performance standards. As such, these arrangements will continue, as is. until such time as the additional
transaction volume justifies the cost of automnation on a cost recovery basis.
Some 10% of the current paper items account for the bulk of the value passing through the clearing house. These
high value items are processed in a manner similar to low value items on a net end of day basis. Accordingly, there
is no intra-day finality of large value payments, there is no control on intra-day commercial bank credit exposures,
and commercial banks have no opportunity to manage their cash positions without leaving excess cash on deposit
with BOM. For these reasons, a strategic decision wvas made by BOM and the Banker's Association to concentrate
on the development and implementation of a modern RTGS system along with the necessary risk management and
cash management tools. The resulting system design reflects best international practice (for balancing efficiency,
cost and risk) utilized in siniilar systems for processing large value and time critical transactions recentlv installed
or under development in the major industrialized countries.
The project will be designed in accordance wvith best international practices and in particular, will take into
account relevant BIS and EU standards and guidelines for both RTGS and Net Settlement systems.
As previously mentioned, a detailed analysis of the existing Port Louis clearing house resulted in a decision not to
convert it into an automated clearing house until such time as transaction volume, especially plastic card and smart
card volume, increases to a cost justifiable level. Commercial banks are fully supportive of this strategy as they do
not want to invest capital in system improvements that are iiot necessary.
In the area of debt and cash management, the option to immediately move to developing systems and capacity was
not mnade as the Ministry requires better information on whieh to base decisions on the comprehensiveness and
degree of activism it wants to pursue. Consequently, the initial phase of the project is focused on assisting the
Ministry to make informed decisions in these areas, before proceeding with capacity developmwent.
2. Major related projects finatnced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
No major related projects have been financed. However, it is likely that BOM will request specific legal
advice via the IMF to review (i) the Bank of Mauritius Act (1966); and (ii) the Banking Act (1988)
amended in 1992. Legal work undertaken under this component will be coordinated with parallel work
supported by the IMF. Further, BOM has requested the IMF to supply a resident advisor on market
development issues and it is assumed that if such an advisor is provided, hle/she will be able to provide
technical advice that would otherwise require support under this project. The contingency provisions under
the project are sufficient in the event that such support is needed from the project.
- 9-



Sector Istue.                        Poet                       (PRRaig
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                         Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
no related projects
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The first lesson to be drawn from Bank / IDA experience is that the design, development and implementation of an
appropriate nationwide payments system is a complex process requiring the active involvement of all participants.
It also requires sufficient time and resources.  The second lesson is that proper sequencing of individual
components is essential. Whereas speed of implementation is obviously important, the quality of the work is more
important as any major implementation problems, such as a loss of a payment message, will result in loss of
confidence in the entire system by the ultimate enterprise and individual users. Project preparation activities will be
undertaken with the active participation of all stakeholders. Also, an appropriate project management structure will
be put in place to ensure that stakeholder views are fully represented in all design and implementation planning
decisions.
The Bank / IDA experience also indicates the need for a rigorous approach to providing an appropriate legal and
regulatory framework and the development and enforcement of suitable standards covering all critical aspects of
payments system operation This has already been recognized by the BOM and steps will be taken to expose them
to other country practices in these areas through the hiring of specialist consultants. Legislation governing the
current payment arrangements in Mauritius is covered by (i) the Bank of Mauritius Act (1966); (ii) the Banking
Act (1988) amended in 1992; and (iii) the Bills of Exchange Act (1914). The BOM and the Banker's Association
recognize the need for a new act to cover electronic means of payment. Substantial work is in progress; in this
regard a new "Financial Services Act" is currently being drafted and will incorporate regulation on electronic
means of payment and electronic fraud.
The primary lesson of Bank/IDA experience in developing capacity in Government fimancilng operations is that
cooperation between, and commitment from, both the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance is essential for
successful implementation. Secondly, while many of the changes on the Central Bank side can occur relatively
rapidly once agreement is reached, the full range of developments required of the Ministry of Finance can only take
place over a period of several years because of extensive inter-connections with general Government budgetary
management and the required changes to Government operating procedures. The demonstrated conumitment of
both the BOM  and MOF to this project is thus a key element in proceeding with the Govermlent financing
component.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Bank of Mauritius, commercial banks and the Mauritius Bankers Association had already invested significant
management effort and working level resources in agreeing how best to satisfy their collective needs. In addition,
a detailed implementation manual and project coordinator manual is being prepared and will contain information
considered necessary and sufficient for effective project monitoring, control and evaluation. Additionally, a project
organization structure has already been established and is eager to move the project forward. As mentioned above,
the Minister of Finance has made a commitment to improving debt and cash management. Thus, demonstrable
ownership of the project by the Mauritian financial sector already exists. However, the most compelling indicator is
the fact that both the BOM and MOF have specifically and independently requested Bank support in both the
payments system and government financing components as a matter of urgency.
- 10-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank of Mauritius, MOF and the commercial banks have had little exposure to the policy, legal and functional
design issues associated with modem electronic payment systems. The many consultations during recent years with
specialist Bank personnel has provided the opportunity for effective knowledge transfer in many critical design
matters and has resulted in an increased local capacity to move into an electronic environment with some
confidence. Continuing Bank involvement has been requested to provide on-going policy, operational and technical
advice throughout the project life-cycle. Arrangements to provide such assistance on a fee-basis have been
effected.
The Bank is very well placed to assist BOM and MOF select approaches to Government financing and market
development suited to Mauritius' situation through its prior involvement in market development.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit      NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project's benefits are quite difficult to quantify. However, the following points may be helpful to bring an
analytical perspective to the benefits:
(1)    It is expected that the RTGS system will handle close to MUR I billion per day. Real time gross
settlement will reduce the risk exposure for the BOM, currently at close to 5% of its total assets. In addition to this
very important risk reduction element, the banks will avoid establishing a collateral fund to cover settlement risk at
the Port Louis Clearing House (currently, no such fund exists). Given international practice, one would expect to
have such a fund covering the two of the largest net debit positions. This would be about MUR .5 billion.
(2)    The benefits from the debt and cash management side can be quantified by making certain assumptions
about the reduction of cost of borrowing given the current state of the management of these elements. One could
safely assume that at least a 30 basis point reduction on overall debt could be achieved amounting to around MUR
0.5 billion a year. This of course does not include the benefits associated with risk reduction. Risk reduction
coupled with improved government financial market integration would probably be the most important benefits of
the project. As the liquidity situation improves, the financial sector will become more efficient, thus benefiting all
sectors.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = %  (see Annex 4)
Preliminary investment and recurrent cost estimates for the project are based on the professional views of
experienced computer based payment system design practitioners. Appropriate allowances for inflation have been
made. In addition, reasonable costs of physical contingencies have also been included in the cost estimates. The
financial commitment required for the debt management component is based on the reasonable assumption that
systems requirements will be toward the lower end of the range due to the likelihood of a less activist strategy
being appropriate and the pre-existence of debt recording software.
Fiscal Impact:
The project has minimum fiscal impact. The loan aniount will be a contingent liability from a fiscal perspective as
the borrower is the Bank of Mauritius. The loan amount and the MOF component is quite small with respect to the
rest of the economy (total loan amount is less than one-thousandth of GNP while the MOF component is even less).
- 11 -



3. Technical:
The envisaged project is technically sound and will satisfy the needs of the BOM, MOF, commercial bank and user
community stakeholders. Project components will be designed to reflect the best international standards (for
example BIS and EU standards) and guidelines as well as local Mauritian realities. The specific user needs will be
confirmed during preparation activities via detailed studies and will be reflected in the user requirement
specifications. The project organization structure will also provide an opportunity for stakeholders to review and
participate in all critical project related matters.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executiig agencies:
The overall project coordination rests with the BOM. The BOM will be responsible for implenmenting the payment
system component while the MOF will be responsible for the debt and cash management component.
4.2 Project management:
The quality of the work undertaken by the executing agencies during the preliminary project preparation provides a
sound basis for our belief in the ability of BOM and the commercial banks to implement the project in line with the
agreed implementation plan.
The BOM  and Mauritian commercial banks have limited experience in designing and implementing modern
RTGS systems. To overcome this weakness, BOM will hire suitably qualified and experienced RTGS system
consultants to provide the application software, specify and oversee the acquisition of the necessary processing,
communications, and security equipment and to undertake detailed training of relevant BOM and User personnel.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Except for an estimated amount of US$2 million, all project expenditures would involve procurement of
services. Consultants would be hired in accordance with the Banks Guidelines. Most consultants would be
selected on the basis of Quality-and-Cost-Based. Short lists for contracts estimated under US$ 100,000 may
be comprised entirely of national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified (at least three) are
available. However, if foreign firms express interest, they will not be excluded.Training (total value
US$0.1 million) will comprise hiring of individual short term consultants and support for training programs
in neighboring countries.
All contracts for the procurement ofgoods financed by IBRD (individual value US$250,000 equivalent and
above) will be awarded on the basis of ICB. The goods that will be procured for the project will be
determined by the result of the system. All ICB procedures will utilize the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents.
The General Procurement Notice for the project was published in the UN Development Business in
September 1999. Specific procurement notices have also been issued for the RTGS operator and the Debt
and Cash management component will be issued in UNDB in January 2000.
4.4 Financial managemenit issues:
In accordance with Bank policy and procedures, the project needs to adopt a financial management and reporting
system in compliance with Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). Given the short disbursement period of
this loan (2 years) and since the accounting staff in both BOM and MOF is not yet familiar with the LACI
procedures, it is more efficient for the project to use the traditional disbursement methods. In this case, the project
will produce the basic financial statements annually and submit on a quarterly basis the following reports: a
- 12-



Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, a Contract Expenditure Report-Goods and Works, a Contract Expenditure
Report-Consultants, a Procurement Management Report-Goods & Works, and a Procurement Management
Report-Consultants. Should the project require an extension for another year, an assessment will be carried out
before the closing date to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system
that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR)
required by the Bank/IDA.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: C
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and
disclosure) and tlue significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
n. a.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
n. a.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: n.a.
n.a.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmiental screening anid (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n. a.
5.5 What mechanismiis have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
n. a.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
n. a.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
All commercial banks, major non-bank financial institutions, Ministry of Finance Public Finance Office,
Accountant General's Office, and the BOM have been involved in discussions of the project and its key features.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
n.a.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
n.a.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
n.a.
- 13 -



7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
FE  Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              E Yes Z No
E Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                        G Yes Z No
C Forestry (OP 4.36, GP .36)                                          ZYes Z No
E Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                           C Yes Z No
O Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                       O Yes Z No
9 Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20l                                        E Yes Z No
9 Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                  9 Yes Z No
9 Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                   9 Yes 9 No
9 Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)        9 Yes Z No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)             9 Yes 9Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
n.a.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is sustainable. Once implemented, the new automated payment and liquidity management mechanisms
will represent a vital component of the Mauritius financial sector inifrastructure and will be used extensively by
BOM, MOF, the commercial banks and the customers of the commercial banks. Specifically, the proposed cash
mnanagement and supervisory/audit tools will provide service as yet unavailable in Mauritius that are eagerly
anticipated by BOM supervisors and commercial bank treasurers.
2. Critical Risks:
There are risks associated with all complex system development projects, and the proposed project is no exception.
The major threats that the project could face have been identified and steps will be taken to manage the associated
risks in the following areas (i) inadequate cooperation between the several stakeholders; (ii) system acquisition
strategy and procurement design; (iii) incomplete understanding of the payment system requirements and their
technical and operational implications; and (iv) inadequate project management and procurement skills.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
One aspect of the project may prove controversial. This relates to the use of the proposed liquidity management
tools by MOF and commercial bank treasurers. Failure to adequately manage the payment system flows could
result in temporary commercial bank liquidity problems. Significant and appropriate training must be given to
relevant BOM, MOF and commercial bank personnel to facilitate their use of the new tools and to avoid the
occurrence of technical defaults. To overcome any controversy, it may be necessary to hold a special "Liquidity
Management Workshop" to ensure that treasury personnel from all impacted institutions are thoroughly familiar
with the operational aspects of the RTGS system and the available liquidity tools.
- 14-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The telecom system fails to operate         N         System will be designed taking into account the
efficiently.                                          existing telecom infrastructure in Mauritius.
The IT Equipment fails to perform.          N        An open architecture system design will be
selected so that no specific equipment will
become a binding constraint. In addition,
appropriate back-up facilities and failures
recovery procedures will be put in place.
System software fails to perform.           N        Only bids from reputable suppliers will be
considered and the procurement process will be
molnitored closely.
Intra-financial institution linkages with   N         Financial institutions and the Government will
the RTGS system do not perform well.                  be involved during the system set tup. Access
servers will have the ability to link to the LANS
in each user.
Failure to assess existing items in the     N         Only highly specialized consultants will be
Governmenlt Balance Sheet would yield                 utilized and the Bank will provide significant
sub-optimal benchmarks.                              supervision resources to monitor this work.
Failure to integrate the roles of the       M         Close coordination with the Accountant General
Ministry of Finance, the Treasury and the            and all other Governmental bodies appears
Bank of Mauritius in debt and cash                   feasible.
management will create anomalies in the
Government's interaction with the
financial sector
From Components to Outputs
Financial institutions fail to utilize the  N         Specific traininig programs and workshops are
new RTGS tools.                                       plarned for bank treasurers, the Accountant
General's Office and the Budget Office.
The legal and regulatory aspects of the     N         IMF is currently engaged in these fields. The
system are not well established.                      Bank supervision team will also pay close
attention to this issue. In addition, special
attention will be paid to the operational and
system membership agreements.
Fiscal needs and some monetary policy       N         Govenmment is conmmitted to improving debt
considerations undermine the benchmarks               management and reducing the risk exposure
established by the Debt Office and the                arising from the debt stock; BOM is committed
forecasted cash needs.                                to conducting monetary policy through open
market operations as evident in its planned
introduction of repurchasing facility.
Overall Risk Rating                         N
-15 -



Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
See above.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Standard conditionis of effectiveness apply.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Managging Director of the Bank of Mauritius would be the coordinator of the project;
A project coordinating conimittee including representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Mauritius
Bankers Association and other potential users and chaired by the Managinlg Director of the Bank of
Mauritius would be maintained until project completion.
The Bank of Mauritius to establish policies and procedures that would enable the monitoring and
evaluation of project activities.
H. Readiness for Implementation
X 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
C 1. b) Not applicable.
7 2. The procurement documents for the firstyear's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implemenitation
7 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
v 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are reconunended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ahmet . Soylemezoglu               Gerard A. Byam                      ichael N. Sarris
Team l(!eader                      Sector Manager/Director             ountry ManagerlD rector
- 16-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
Keyi PerfQrance
erahyh f Obtives                I d   t       =in  &- Ealuatin                           um      s
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduction of budget deficit
*Expansion of financial    from 6% of GDP to 2%.   *CAS and earlier work done a) Expansion of financial
services and improvement                          in IT and paymenit system  services especially
of sector efficiency    Increase i domestic savngs   evaluation.           international financial
of setor fficency from 24% of GDP to 28%.seicsoldhp
.                     ~~~~~~~~services wo7uld help
*Improved Macroeconomic                                                     diversify the Mauritian
Management.                                                                economv and thus gain
greater economic stability;
b) better macroeconomic
management is a necessary
condition for a sustained
economic grovth.
Project Development      Outcome I Impact          Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
More efficient financial    a) Large Value transactions eSupervision reports;  a) A modern payment
sector and better managed  settled real time and                             system will increase the
fiscal position.         improved liquidity        eSpecific consultant reports efficiency of financial sector
management,                                        and facilitate the financial
institutions to link with the
b) better managed                                 |global markets.:
government cash position
and debt stocks.                                   b) better debt and cash
maniagement by the
governm-en-t will enhance
macroeconomic
manag(ement
- 17-



Output from each         Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1) A well functioning   Establishment of a RTGS   *Supervision reports     a) Intra-day finality for
payment system.          system.                                           large value transactions will
*Specific consultant reports decrease settlement risk and
improve liquidity
management by Govermnent
and financial institutions;
2) Effective cash and debt  a) Establishment of a debt  *Progress reports  b) efficient debt
management by            management office;                                management by Government
Government.                                                                will improve fiscal position
b) better management of                          reduce future fiscal risks,
government's cash position.                       and better cash management
by Government will improve
overall liquidity in the
system and result in better
government financial market
interaction.
- 18 -



Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:      (from Components to
Su b-components:         component)                                        Outputs)
1) RTGS                 See table in the main text   *Supervision reports  a) Financial institutions will
be able to manage their
* Specific consultant reports liquidity needs (as separate
from their reserve accounts
* Progress reports by the   at the BOM) better when
implementing agencies    intra-day finality can be
achieved especially for large
value transactions and avoid
large unpredictable credit
exposures;
2) Debt Management       See table in the main text   *Supervision reports  b) accountant General and
other Governmental bodies
* Specific consultant reports will be able to forecast cash
needs better
* Progress reports by the
implementing agencies
3) Cash Management       See table in the main text   eSupervision reports
* Specific consultant reports
* Progress reports by the
implementing agencies



Annex 2: Project Description
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
The project consists of the following two components:
1.      Payment Systems; and
2.       Government Cash and Debt Management.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.40 million
Payment System component. Above figure includes $.9 million for contingency (these figures do not include
front-end fee)
Over the past several years, significant levels of effort have been expended by BOM, the Mauritius Banker's
Association, and the commercial banks to identify and define worthwhile changes that should be made to the
existing manual payment systems to support the development objectives discussed above. This comprehensive
review of bank and bank customer needs included an analysis of (i) the current manual procedures operated by the
Port Louis Clearing House; (ii) the need for more secure and efficient procedures to support the immediate
processing of large value and other time sensitive payments; (iii) the need to conform to emerging international
standards; and (iv) the need to improve the cash management and settlement facilities to mitigate the potential for
credit, liquidity and systemic risk.
The current paper-based Port Louis Clearing House system (designed primarily to process paper cheques) is
efficient and will continue to be appropriate for handling low value bulk payments for the foreseeable future. To
adequately balance the needs for efficiency, cost and risk as well as to conform with emerging international
standards, the project will concentrate on the construction and implementation of a modem Real Time Gross
Settlement (RTGS) system and the associated real-time cash management support functions required by BOM,
MOF and the commercial banks to make optimum use of the available liquidity without credit risk or adverse
monetary policy implications. The project will also provide support setting up the legal and regulatory framework
for the operation of the RTGS system.
In addition to the basic RTGS funds transfer service, the project will:
* introduce "Cash Management Services" to the MOF and commercial banks to permit intra-day monitoring
of balances maintained in the new RTGS settlement accounts;
*   separate settlement funds from bank reserves on deposit with the Bank of Mauritius to ensure that reserves
are not automatically used to fund intra-day commercial bank liquidity requirements; and
* provide the basis for supporting a Delivery versus Payment (DvP) settlement mechanism in regard to the
issue and trading of government securities.
In view of the above considerations, this component will consist of following sub-components:
A. Computer Based Application Software Systems:
(a) Real Time Gross Settlement System: The RTGS system will consist of two computer supported
sub -systems: (i) the primary RTGS system containing the funds transfer and gross settlement accounting
system, and a settlement account; and (ii) a position inquiry system.
(b) Commercial Bank and Ministry of Finance: Direct Participants System (DPS). The DPS for
commercial bank system will provide (i) the means to submit payment instructions, receive appropriate
reports and inquire on settlement; and (ii) account balances. The DPS for the MOF system will provide
the MOF full enquiry facilities only.
- 20 -



B. Project Support
This includes specialized services required by BOM to temporarily support the permanent BOM management team
during the preparation, procurement, development, user acceptance testing, and initial implementation phases of
the new arrangements. Support will include project management, technical support and quality assurance
activities. This component also includes the provision of assistance to establish legal and regulatory mechanisms
for the operation of the RTGS and electronic payments as well as harmonizing these mechanisms in Mauritius
with the western world.
C. Computer and Telecommunications Equipment
This includes the equipment required to support the MACSS computer architecture, the DPS workstation
architecture, and the MACS S network architecture.
Project Component 2 - US$1.68 million
Cash and Debt Management Component. Above figure contains $.1 million for contingency (these figures do not
include front-end fee).
In relation to the Government's financing operations there is concern about the frequencv of auction failures, the
management of the exchange risk on foreign debt, the build up of short term domestic debt, the management of the
impact of funding risks on the budget, and the lack of liquidity in the money and debt markets. All these factors
unnecessarily increase government and private funding costs, reducing Mauritius's appeal as a business and
financial center.
The issues of concern to the government stem from the need to build capacity in (i) the strategic aspects of debt
management; and (ii) cash management over a longer horizon. The Government has good existing capacity in debt
recording and monitoring maturing debt and interest payments, and in daily management of cash to avoid idle
balances. Before proceeding with capacity building, the Government needs to make an informed decision on the
scope of the development it requires. To make this decision the Government requires an assessment of the cost and
benefit of different approaches to debt and cash management. The cost of developing debt and cash management
capacity increases with the degree of activism, coverage, and complexity of the approach adopted. The intensity,
coverage and complexity of sovereign debt management and cash management vary between countries depending
on the particular risks that are a priority to manage, the significance of the government's debt position to fiscal
risk, and the market conditions faced by a country which determine its scope to undertake active management.
Given these considerations, the debt and cash management component of the project has a two-part structure to
ensure that the approach adopted for debt and cash management is cost/benefit efficient for the governnern of
Mauritius. The first part will focus on the identification and design issues while the second part will implement the
findings of the first part.
The first stage of the component will identify (i) the priority of the risks to be managed in the context of Mauritius;
and (ii) the constraints on the Government's ability to manage its debt and cash positions. The Government will be
provided with a discussion of different approaches to debt and cash management and, based on the analysis of the
situation in Mauritius, a recommendation as to which approach is likely to prove most cost/benefit efficient. A
detailed action plan for developing the capacity required to implement the selected approach will also be provided.
The second stage of the component will implement the development plan agreed during the first stage. A detailed
look into these stages are presented below:
First Stage. To enable the MOF to select its approach to debt and cash management and the resources it is
prepared to commit, the first stage of the project will provide the MOF with:
(i) An analytical framework for developing debt and cash management.
-21 -



(ii) An assessment of practical considerations in Mauritius that will influence the type of debt and cash
management strategies and operations suited to local conditions. This will include:
* An assessment of the suitability of existing systems for inclusion in an integrated debt and cash
management system.
* An assessment of the resource requirements of the different options for debt and cash management.
* A program of actions that the MOF can undertake in the short term to pave the way for developing cash
and debt management capacity.
The first stage work will inform the MOF on a number of issues including, but not limited to:
(i) Developing benchmarks. Benchmarks are used to establish a 'normal' or 'average' position which will give
an acceptable cost/risk result over time. Benchmarks are developed for the total debt portfolio and external and
domestic components. Examples of benchmarking decisions are: the desired proportions of domestic and
external financing; the desired maturity structure of the total portfolio and the external and domestic
portfolios; and the proportions of fixed and floating rate debt. The MOF will need to be informed on the
different methods used to construct benchuarks so that it can select the method appropriate to its
circumstances. MOF will also need to be informed on the cost/benefit trade-offs in benchnmark development.
The gains in operational effectiveness achieved by complex and detailed benchmark development need to be
weighed against the costs of development. For example, if an asset/liability approach is chosen to benchmnark
development, the question arises as to how much effort is required to exactly identify the structure of the
Governments' assets and liabilities and whether the cost of exact idelntification is justified. How far does the
Government need to go in identifying the composition of its assets and liabilities in order to gain most of the
benefit to benchmark design?
(ii) Degree of activism in managing the debt portfolio to the benclhmark. Debt officers differ in how actively
they try to manage portfolio risks and adhere to the benchmarks. The MOF needs to be aware of the logic
behind the selection of the degree of activism and the resource costs of active management. The more active
the management the greater the resources required in terms of both trained staff and information systems to
execute transactions, monitor the profitability of individual trades and value, and monitor the total debt
portfolio. The degree of activism that is possible given Mauritius' access to markets will also need to be
assessed.
(iii) Contingent liabilities can have a very big impact on the Government's risk exposure and should be
included in the debt management strategy. MOF needs to be aware of options available to value, report and
manage Government's exposure to contingent liabilities.
(iv) Management of Government assets. If government actively manages the risk and cost of its liabilities it is
logical for it to also actively nmanage its assets and to integrate asset and liability management. This is
especially so if an asset liability management framework is used to develop the debt management benchmarks.
The MOF needs to develop an understanding of the logic of integrated asset and liability management and the
resources required if it wishes to follow this approach.
(v) Proactive cash management. Accurate forecasts of the Govermnent's cash flows on a weekly and daily
basis will enable better advance planning of the Govermment's debt issuance and will be of particular benefit in
managing the issuance of short term debt. Quality forecasting requires that Governmenit departments be
motivated to put effort into accurate forecasting of their cash flows. The Accountant General needs to be
informed of different approaches to forecasting and their resource requirements.
(vi) Inter-governmental relations: The relationship between the Debt Unit and other parts of the Government
needs to be clearly established. The following observations have been made in this regard:
* The Treasury produces cash flow forecasts and provides instructions to Barik of Mauritius on Government
- 22 -



financing needs. These forecasts, in more developed form, will be important in planning the Government's
domestic funding program and need to be integrated with the work of the Debt Unit.
*  At present the Bank of Mauritius (i) recommends the amount, maturity and timing of long bond issues to
the MOF, (ii) issues long bonds by auction; (iii) determines the amount of t-bills offered based on its monetary
program; and (iv) manages the foreign reserves. As the MOF develops capacity in debt management the
relationship with BOM as its agent in debt sales will need to be specified so that debt management policy and
monetarv policy are operated in harmony. In particular (i) the mix of long and short debt sold needs to be
consistent with the debt strategy; (ii) the particular maturities of long debt sold need to be consistent with the
debt strategy; and (iii) BOM needs to be able to control banking system liquidity and the debt instrument and
operating procedures used for this should take account of BOM's need for daily operational flexibility and the
benefit to both debt management and monetary policy of liquid markets.
In addition to working with the consultants in developing the framework, Debt Unit staff could, after they have
developed sufficient familiarity with the ideas, visit I)ebt offices in selected countries to improve their operational
understanding.
Second stage. The MOF will determine its approach to debt and cash management and the resources it is
prepared to commit based on the first stage work. Following this it will, with advice from consultants as required,
develop an implementation plan. The implementation plan will prioritize development activities based on need and
capacity constraints. This stage will include:
e  Technical development of tools such as benchmarks.
e  Development or acquisition of information and analytical systems required to support debt and cash
management.
i  Training for staff in the use of the tools and systems.
  Training for staff in risk and portfolio management.
The RTGS Link. Cash Management systems will also benefit from the establishment of MACSS. The RTGS
system will link the MOF directly with the automated payment system and the MOF through a terminal to be
located at the Treasury. This terminal will be capable of supporting multiple terminals in the MOF through
internal LAN. At the present time, there is no internal LAN within the MOF but it is being planned and would be
possibly in operation by the time RTGS system is completed. The terminals that could be connected to the RTGS
terminal via a LAN will not have the capability of sending and receiving payment instructions but will provide a
capability to monitor various accounts.
The Treasury will also be able to transfer funds between designated Government Accounts within BOM once all
such accounts are properly designated. Hence, MOF will have added instantaneous flexibility managing
Government's cash flows via RTGS system.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
Payment Systems                                           0.00         3.50         3.50
Cash and Debt Management                                  0.15         1.43         1.58
Total Baseline Cost                                       0.15         4.93         5.08
Physical Contingencies                                   0.10         0.90         1.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs              0.25         5.83         6.08
Front-end fee                    0.05         0.05
Total Financing Required              0.25         5.88          6.13
Goods                                                      0.00          2.00          2.00
Works                                                      0.00          0.00          0.00
Services                                                   0.04          3.92          3.96
Training                                                   0.00          0.12          0.12
Total Project Costs     0.04          6.04         6.08
Front-end fee                   0.05          0.05
Total Financing Required     0.04           6.09         6.13
- 24 -



Annex 4
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
The project's benefits are quite difficult to quantify. However, the following points may be helpful to bring an
analytical perspective to the benefits:
(1)    It is expected that the RTGS system will handle close to MUR 1 billion per day. Real time gross
settlement will reduce the risk exposure for the BOM, currently at close to 5% of its total assets. In addition to this
very important risk reduction element, the banks will avoid establishing a collateral fund to cover settlement risk at
the Port Lolois Clearing House (currently, no such fund exists). Given internatiolnal practice, one would expect to
have such a fund covering the two of the largest net debit positions. This would be about MUR .5 billion.
(2)    The benefits from the debt and cash management side can be quantified by making certain assumptions
about the reduction of cost of borrowing given the current state of the management of these elements. One could
safely assume that at least a 30 basis point reduction on overall debt could be achieved amounting to around MUR
0.5 billion a year. This of course does not include the benefits associated with risk reduction. Risk reduction
coupled with improved government financial market integration would probably be the most importanit benefits of
the project. As the liquidity situation improves, the financial sector will become more efficient, thus benefiting all
sectors.
- 25 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
Years Ending
Year I     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5      Year 6     Ya 
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs              4.1        2.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        .
Recurrent Costs               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0       0 0
Total Project Costs             4.1        2.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Front-end fee      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Total Financing                 4.1        2.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                     3.2         1.4        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                   0.9         0.6        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                  0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0         0.0         0.0        o.o         0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers                0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Othets                       0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing        4.1        2.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Year I     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year5   | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Costs            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Front-end fee     0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Financing                0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Government                  0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Central                 0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing       0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
The project will not have any operational cost as it will only support the establislment of the RTGS system and
provide technical assistance for better cash and debt management. The payment system of the project will be
- 26 -



completed during the first year. The first phase of the Debt and Cash management (totaling approximately
US$62,000) and part of the second phase (totaling US$400,000) will be completed during the first year of the project.
Hence, the renmaining portion for the second year belongs to this component. Detailed cost assumptions are in the
project files.
- 27 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
mw ~~~~~~~~O
1. Works                         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                         2.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          2.00
(1 .60)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.60)
3. Services                                    0.00         0.12          3.96          4.08
O           (0.00)       (0. 10)      (3.00)        (3.10)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                 0.00          0.00         0.05          0.00          0.05
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.05)        (0.00)       (0.05)
Total                         2.00          0.00          0.17         3.96          6.13
(1.60)        (0.00)       (0.15)        (3.00)       (4.75)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loani. All costs include contingencies
2/
- 28 -



Procurement under the Project.  Except an estimated amount of US$2 million, all the project
expenditures would be related to procurement of services. The Consultanits would be hired in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997, updated
September 1997). Most of the consultant selection will be addressed through competition among qualified
short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by
evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. For some
contracts estimated to cost under $100,000, selection may be made based on Consultant Qualifications.
Short lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants if a
sufficient numiber of qualified (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms
have expressed interest, they will not be excluded. Training (total value US$0.1 million) will comprise
hiring of individual short tenn consultants and support for training programs in neighborilng countries.
All contracts for the procurement ofgoods supported by IBRD (individual value US$250,000 equivalent
and above) will be awarded on the basis of ICB. The goods that will be procured for the project will be
determined by the result of the system design work by the turn-key operator who will be hired on QCBS
basis based on an Advertisement seeking Expression of Interest. The goods, all IT related equipment, will
be packaged in two parts. All ICB procedures will utilize the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents.
The General Procurement Notice for the project has been published in the UN Development Business in
September 1999. The Expression of Interest advertisement for the RTGS operator has also been issued in
UN Development Business 1999 for the RTGS operator for ICB procurement. The Specific procurement
Notice for the first phase of the Debt and Cash management component will be issued in UNDB in January
2000.
The Procurement Plan has been drafted and will be agreed at negotiations. This plan will be subject to
yearly updates.
Implementation Arrangements. The Managing Director of BOM is the project Coordinator. The
procuremenit for the MOF and the BOM will be the direct responsibility of the Director of Budget (in
MOF) and the Director of Operations (in BOM). These Directors are assisted by a procurement assistant in
each case.  However, given the limited workload for procurement, these staff will also have other
responsibilities. It has been assessed that they have adequate familiarity with the procurement process. See
Organization chart below.
Project Coordinator
Managing Director
BOM
Project Coordinator   Project Procurement Officer 
Director of Budget     Director of Operations |
BOM 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Assistant Procurement Officer   Assistant Procurement Officer   Assistant Procurment Officer
MOF         ;            BOM          _ _         BOM
l      ~~Technical             Administrative
-29 -



Procurement monitoring will be the responsibility of the BOM. Quarterly progress reports will be furnished
inter alia to IBRD through the BOM.
The capacity of the implementing agency for procurement purposes was found to be sufficient for the
ongoing procurement activity, which is being closely monitored by the Bank's procurement specialists as
mentioned elsewhere, and for the immediate needs of the project by the task team based on the information
gathered during July and October 1999 missions. However, the Task Team will undertake a broader
assessmenit of the procurement related issues as part of the first supervision mission.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms            3.60      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      3.60
(2.73)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.73)
B. Individuals     O.00      0.29      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.29
(0.00)    (0.27)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.27)
Total   3.60      0.29      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      3.89
(2.73)    (0.27)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0. 00)    (3.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 30 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review
Given the critical nature of all procurement activity, all contracts will be subject to prior review. The
number of procurement processes (estimated not to be more than 10) anud their rather simple and related
nature would make this quite feasible and desirable. All contracts during the first year of the project, and
selective contracts thereafter, will be subject to post-review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
.Thr.ehold  .    ProcMeveIment        . PirRve
Expenditure    gory       (                             etoS iiOflS'
1. Works                    Not Applicable           Not Applicable          Not Applicable
2. Goods                      >$250,000                  ICB                   >$250,000
>$250,000                  NCB
3. Services                   >$200,000                 QCBS                 >$100,000 Firms
>$200,000              QCBS, Other            >$100,000 Firms
>$50,000 Individual
4. Miscellaneous               <$30,000                   LS
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 31 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C- Allocation of Loan Proceeds
. "Exeditu  GategorV               Aniount:  USmii              F -cete
l.a. Application Development &              1.20                          .90
Project Support
l.b. Telecom & Processing Equipment         1.60                          .80
including embedded software
2.a Cash Management Consulting              0.10                          .80
2.b Debt Management Consulting              0.19                          .80
2.c Training                                0.10                          .80
2.d MOF System Development                  0.88                          .80
3.  Contingencies                           0,63
Total Project Costs                         4.70
Front-end fee         0.05
Total                                       4.75
Special account:
A comprehensive assessment of the Financial managemenit aspects were carried out during October 1999
mission. A report by FMS-OPR on his findings is in the project files. As indicated in Section 4 of the
PAD, there will be one special account to be opened in the naune of the BOM
- 32 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
P..rojet Schedule                                  Paied                         ctal
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       1                            1
First Bank mission (identification)             04/16/99                      04/16/99
Appraisal mission departure                      10/15/99                     10/15/99
Negotiations                                    01/15/2000                    12/27/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/30/2000
Prepared by:
The project was prepared by the task team identified below. The project benefited from an earlier fully
appraised payment project which had to be canceled in December 1997 prior to its Board presentation due
to the desire of then newly appointed Govemor to review other alternatives. The BOM has concluded its
review and asked us to revive the previous project. Assistance was also requested to improve the
Govenmment's Debt and Cash Management.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu             Task Team Leader
Robert Keppler                    Payment Systems
Elizabeth Adu                     Lawyer
David Wilton                      Cash and Debt Managemenit
Agnes Albert-Loth                 Disbursement
Subhash Dhinigra                  Procurement
Gervais Rakotoarimanana           Financial Management
Judite Fernandes                  Task Team Assistant
Irene Chacon                      Program Assistant
- 33 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Since the project will essentially finance (i) procurement and establishment of an RTGS payment system;
and (ii) the technical assistance for better cash and debt management by the Govermnent. the project's
implementation is focused on the delivery of this support. The plan for this delivery as follows:
1. Payment System
The schedule for the payment system procurement process which has already begun is as follows:
ACTIVITY                                 COMPLETION DATE
Prepare Draft User Requirement Specifications            August 31, 1999
Finalize User Requirement Specifications                  September 17, 19 99
Prepare Draft Bidding Documents                           September 30, 1999
Finalize Bidding Documents                                December 13, 1999
Bidders Conference                                        January 17, 1999
Receive Proposals                                         March 17, 2000
Evaluate proposals                                        March 24, 2000
Award Contract                                            April 10, 2000
Consultant Mobilization                                  April, 26, 2000
Pilot Testing                                             October 11, 2000
System Cut-Over                                          November 29, 2000
Further details of these activities are included in the August 6, 1999 Aide Meinoire, jointly prepared user
specifications for the RTGS system and various other documents including the documentation prepared for
the appraisal of the previous paynent systems project.
- 34 -



2. The Cash and Debt Management
The Debt and Cash Management Component will be implemented according to the followving plan:
Advertising for Expressions of Interest for the First Stage    March 15, 2000
Short-listing                                      April 15, 2000
Finalizing the Bid Documents                       April 30, 2000
Receive Proposals                                  June 15, 2000
Evaluate Proposals                                 June 30, 2000
Award Contract                                     July 30, 2000
Consultant Mobilization                            August 15, 2000
Starting Search for Staff Training Options         April 1, 2000
Completion of the First Stage                      May, 1, 2000
Completion of the Evaluation of the First Stage Results  June 1, 2000
Decision on the Scope of the Second Stage          June 1 2000
Comnpletion of the Second Stage Specialist Consultancy  September 30, 2000
Preparing Bids for the Systems Development, and    October 1, 2000
Advertising
Finalizing Bids for the Systems development        October 30, 2000
Evaluation and Short Listing                       November 15, 2000
Completion of the Training of the MOF Staff        December 30, 2000
Receiving of Proposals for the Systems Development  December 30, 2000
Evaluation of the Proposals                        January 15, 2001
Awarding of the Contract                           February 28, 2001
Completion of the Systems Development              August 30, 2001
Start Receiving Specialist Supervision (Ist Round)  Septenber 1, 2001
Start Second Round Specialist Supervision          January 1, 2002
Further details are included in August 6, 1999 Aide Memoire and the discussion correspondence betveen
the peer reviewers.
The project files also contain documents regarding the identification of counterpart task teams at the MOF
and BOM, the project's accounting procedures and a chart of accounts for the project
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The Financial Management Specialist found that adequate financial management systems were in place and
accurate and timely information could be obtained. It was also found that the traditional disbursement
methods are more appropriate.
C. Other
A comprelielnsive technical paper which is titled: "Mauritius-Improving the Liquidity of the domestic
Money and Bond Markets" was prepared during the August 1999 mission. The purpose of the paper was
to better understand the domestic money and bond markets so as to develop the Cash and Debt
Management Component of the project. This paper is in the project files.
*Including electronic files
- 35 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                               IBRD        IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
MU-PE-1921     1998 GOVERNMENT                  ENV. SEVVERAGE& SAN                      1240        000          0.00      11.91       1.90      0.00
Total:      1240         0.00        0.00       11.91      1.90      0.00
- 36 -



MAURITIUS
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1986                Socota Textile                  2.50    0.00     0.00     0.00    2.50     0.00     0.00    0.00
1990                TEL                             0.52    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.52     0.00    0.00     0.00
1991                AEFCSL                          0.00    0.00     0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.19     0.00
1993                Mauritius Fund                  0.00    0.00     5.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     3.99    0.00
Total Portfolio:          3.02    0.00     5.19    0.00     3.02    0.00     4.18     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commnitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 37 -



Annex 10
Mauritius at a glance                                                             9/21/99
Sub-   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan   middle-   |
Mauritius    Africa  income      Development diamond*t
1998
Population, mid-vear (millions)                       1.2      628       588                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  3,700      480     4,860
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      4.3      304     2,862
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                        1.1       2.6      1.4
Labor force (%)                                       1.7       2.6      2.0       p                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)              41        33        77
Life expectancV at birth (years)                      71        51        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              20        91        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            15                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               100        47        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  17        42        11
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  107       77       108             Mautitlus
Male                                               107        84         ..             Upper-middle-income group
Female                                             106        69         ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997     1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.8      1.9       4.2      4.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP               30.0    25.6       28.0     24.1
Exports of goods and services/GDP           48.8    64.6       63.4     64.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  19.3    27.6       24.2     24.0
Gross national savings/GDP                  19.5    29.0       26.6     25.7
Current account balance/GDP                 -9.5      3.4      -1.5     -2.5      .o1/s\\
Interest paVments/GDP                        0.4      1.8       2.1      2.0     Dom                          Investment
Total debt/GDP                              17.3    43.2       59.2     59.1     Savings                      Ie n
Total debt service/exports                   2.9    10.1        9.9      10.8
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      57.2
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..      86.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.3      5.3      5.5       5.6      5.3         -     Mauritius
GNP per capita                      1.8      4.1      5.0       4.0        ,,              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       5.9      6.2      4.9      10.1      2.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)T
Agriculture                                 19.7    14.5        8.9       8.6    30
Industry                                    25.4    32.4       33.0     33.1     20
Manufacturing                             14.6    24.5       24.4      24.7    10C
Services                                    54.9    53.2       58.1     58.3      0
Private consumption                         66.0    60.6       63.9     65.0    -20
General government consumption              14.7    11.7       11.9      11.0                    GDI    OGDP
Imports of goods and services               59.4    62.5       67.3     65.0
1977-87  1988-98     1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growvth)
Agriculture                                  0.8      0.8       3.6       0.6    15T
Industry                                     5.7      5.8       4.5      5.7
Manufacturing                              7.4      5.6       5.7       6.0
Services                                     3.3      6.3       6.0       5.8 /
Private consumption                          2.4     4.8        4.6      4.6     o      _     _     _    E   _      _
General government consumption               2.1      4.4       3.5       3.6           03   9                 97   98
Gross domestic investment                   -0.1      2.6      20.3      -6.9    5
Imports of goods and services                2.2      4.4       9.2       3.6                  Exports         Imports
Gross national product                       3.0      5.3       6.0       5.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.                                          - 38 -



Mauritius
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977     1987      1997      1998      Inflation (S)
(% chanqeJ                                                                         12
Consumer prices                               9.3      0.4        6.9       6.8     9
Implicit GDP deflator                         8.6     12.9        5.5       5.6     6
Government finance                                                                  3
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                ..    22.9        20.2      20.6            93   94   95   96   97   968
Current budget balance                         ..      3.1      -1.1       -1.0            -     GDPdeflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -2.0        -5.9      -3.6
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977      1987      1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..      892      1,624     1,738    2,500
Sugar                                         ..       ..      374        360
Textiles6                                                                   6     200
Manufactures                                                   964        941     Isso
Total imports (cii)103                                          204       210
Food                                          ..     114        375      368
Fuel and enerqV                                       76        172       139 gyi
Capital goods                                 ..     224       508       510 
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      92       115       130            92  93  94  ss  96  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       74       109       110               C Exports     timports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    124         106       118
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                402    1,214      2,590      2,619     2
Imports of goods and services                490    1,176      2,748      2,796      T
Resource balance                              -88       39      -158      -177 
Net income                                     -3      -43       -19       -38    -2
Netcurrenttransfers                            ..       69       114       110
Current account balance                       -78       64       -63      -105     - 1
Financing items (net)                          40      -34       106       143
Changes in net reserves                        38      -30        -43      -38
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         68      362       709       586
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              6.6     12.9       20.6      22.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ mililons)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS nmillions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          143      813      2,471     2,482
IBRD                                         is      193       111       112                      A 112   :151
IDA                                          15       19        15        15             G                      34
Total debt service                             12      130       282       312
IBRD                                          2       26        29        30E32
IDA                                           0        0         1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               7       18
Official creditors                           24       54         6        27
Private creditors                            -5       20        -31
Foreign direct investment                     2       17        53         -2
Portfolio equitv                              0        0
F: 1,327
World Bank program
Commitments                                   8       25         0        12      A -laBR                      E - Bilateral
Dommisuments                                  0       22        17        13   | B-IDA    0- Other murNateral  F -Prirvte
Disbursements                                10       22        17        13      c -IMF                       G - Short-term|
Principal repayments                          1       13        21        22                                   G  h
Net flows                                    10        8         -4       -9   1                                           t
Interest payments                             1       14         9         9
Net transfers                                 9       -5        -13       -18
World Bank                                                                                                           9/21199
- 39 -



I



MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 24629
Ccononniers Pbint
MAURITIUS                                                                                                                   INDIAN
g |  ;    a><r/  f                            ~~~OCEAN
4   /       /          /5t. ~~~~~~Antoin. X ) J
ARTERIAL ROADS                                            let
**, *+'*      MOTORWAY                                                  /
OTHER MAIN ROADS
BUILT-UP AREAS                                                                                        Rmp
RESERVOItS AND RtVERS
1*          NATIONAL CAPITAL
o          OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                     Val
/  _        ,        - ~~~~~PORT  >      t        )\R   )< A 
fN4DIAN 
OCEAN
CCbA<E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i AW    p 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L JLRus.ie /\>
I C _e,                          :                              '  '  ' 
{~~~                                                                                                                                                 0
jrmr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L ipe                                              (            S     outhueX A
) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~AZN iI RY ;I $  l;ES                                                
m a 1  l I3  E4u 3 ?-
This 15 o,o hoes reprepoendby The Woold henk'sso els?                                                                                                  AE NOCF z i47t  ?CC44-
ch onreaencoreoffsier ond is for thesistsrnel non of mez -el                  .                               t?      -ZE...I5
0JmX4 Ir lgl    rs th -o f ThasueWorld Bash GOrsopshown on this  .nsi MCdn/* 4$AGSC(Rb
mopdorstipr,onthpro ThrWoisB4nkru,eyIdno 
Petr inINDIAN
Gm,,i.r                                       nnofonyt  nr o_AURIUSIs.
FEBRUARY 1993



