Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7011-MAS
Loan Agreement
(Financial Sector Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK OF MAURITIUS
Dated June 26, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7011-MAS
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANK OF MAURITIUS.
WHEREAS (A) The Republic of Mauritius (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), 
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor 
and the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) and to undertake such 
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 
1, 1999 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Direct Participants Systems” means part of the RTGS 
constituting the interface between the financial institutions and the 
Bank of Mauritius;
(b)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest 
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in said Interest Period;
(c)
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
date on which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is 
established, such date being the first day of the Interest Period next 
following the Interest Period in which said Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn;
(d)
“Project Coordination Committee” means the Committee 
established by the Borrower on September 21, 1999, and referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan satisfactory to 
the Bank adopted by the Borrower on January 12, 2000, which contains, 
inter alia, the operating procedures for carrying out the Project, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Implementation Plan;
(f)
“Real Time Gross Settlement System and RTGS” means an 
electronic payment system for the financial institutions in Mauritius for 
the instantaneous transfer of funds; and
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to four million seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars 
($4,750,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
Page  3
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and 
maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2002, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to forty-seven thousand five hundred dollars ($47,500).  
The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.85%) from the date on which such charge commences to accrue in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions 
to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan 
in semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1, the 
first such installment to be payable on the tenth (10th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fifth (25th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount.  Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to 
one-sixteenth (1/16) of said Disbursed Amount.  The last installment 
shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said Disbursed 
Amount. 
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, if any one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed 
Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph (a), be 
payable after December 1, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on such date 
Page  4
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the 
amortization schedule for each Disbursed Amount promptly after the 
Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) 
of this Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any 
portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so 
converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, requests for Conversion shall not be furnished to the Bank prior 
to February 1, 2000, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank.  The provisions 
of this paragraph shall not apply to Conversions agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section.
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and financial sector practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as 
so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall carry out its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial 
and financial sector practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with 
reputable insurers,  or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank 
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
Page  7
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Bank of Mauritius
Sir William Newton Street
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile: 
(230) 
211 5101
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Hafez Ghanem
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
BANK OF MAURITIUS
By /s/ B. R. Gujadhur
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
Page  8
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars) 
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
 1,600,000
 
80%
(2)
Consultants’
services and training:
(a)
for Part A
 1,200,000
90%
of the Project
(b)
for Part B 
 1,270,000
80%
of the Project
(3)
Fee
    47,500
Amount due 
under Section 2.04 
of this Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
   632,500
TOTAL
 4,750,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of any Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless and until the Borrower shall have 
paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under 
contracts: (a) for goods not exceeding $250,000; (b) consultant services 
provided by firms not exceeding $100,000; and (c) consultant services 
provided by individuals not exceeding $50,000, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the quality of 
banking payment services to further reduce float, speed up circulation of 
funds and increase efficiency of funds transmission, while providing 
convenience and service to users; (ii) provide appropriate tools to the 
Borrower and the Ministry of Finance and participating commercial banks 
to facilitate enhanced cash management and avoid credit and liquidity 
risk; and (iii) improve the Guarantor’s debt management and interaction 
with financial markets in order to both improve market efficiency and 
lower its funding costs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
Page  9
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Payment System
1.
(a)
Installation of a Real Time Gross Settlement System through 
the acquisition of computer equipment and software.
(b)
Installation of Direct Participants Systems for commercial 
banks and Ministry of Finance, through the acquisition of computer 
equipment and software.
2.
Acquisition of computer and telecommunications equipment for the 
payment systems.
3.
Support for the preparation, development, user acceptance testing 
and initial implementation of the systems installed under Parts A.1 (a) 
and (b) above through the provision of technical advisory services. 
Part B:
Cash and Debt Management
Development and implementation of a cash and debt management plan 
for the Guarantor, through the provision of technical advisory services 
and training, and the acquisition of equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
Page  10
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for training activities under the Project shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  11
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower’s Managing Director shall be Coordinator of all 
activities under the Project. The Borrower shall maintain until 
completion of the Project, a Project Coordination Committee under the 
chairmanship of the Managing Director, with representation from the 
Guarantor’s Ministry of Finance. This Committee will facilitate the 
overall coordination between the Borrower and the Ministry of Finance for 
the Project related activities. In addition to this Committee, the Bank 
of Mauritius has also established a payment system coordination committee 
(PSCC) which is headed by the Managing Director for Part A of the 
Project. PSCC includes representatives of the Mauritius Bankers’ 
Association and other potential users. All the activities regarding Part 
A of the Project will be carried out by the PSCC. The Guarantor has 
established a separate team to carry out Part B of the Project under the 
leadership of the Guarantor’s Director of Public Finance.
2
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Plan and shall not amend it or waive any provision 
thereof, which, in the opinion of the Bank will materially or adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Page  12
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2000, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2001, or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Page  13
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have 
been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible 
Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
Page  14
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
1.
Part A of the Project
(a)
33% of total payments value processed by the new system at 
cut-over
(b)
50% of total payments value by mid-year 2001 
(c)
65% of total payments value by year end 2001
(d)
75% of total payments value by year end 2002 
(e)
a demonstrable reduction in large value checks. A realistic 
target might be the elimination of large value checks by end year 2002
(f)
interest free daylight overdrafts granted by the Borrower 
during first year of operation
(g)
Lombard interest on daylight overdrafts during second year 
of operation
(h)
No daylight overdrafts permitted in third year of operation 
- commercial banks will be required to use a Repo Facility.
(i)
System availability of 99.9% during initial production mode 
(4Q-00)
2.
Part B of the Project
(a)
action of the debt and cash management staff to be trained
(b)
setting up the debt management unit
(c)
carrying out the training program
(d)
utilization of the techniques and software developed for the 
debt and cash management purposes.
Page  15
