RESTRICTED
Report No. PU-36a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
WAPDA POWER PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WEST PAKISTAN
July 29, 1970
Public Utilities Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit      a   Rupee (PR)
US$1               a   PRs 4.76
PRl                   US$ 0.21
PRe 1 million      u   US$ 210,000
1 paisa   .O  PR   -   0.21 US cent
Weights and MHwures Ri;Tgvalents
KW    =   Kilowatt                m  1,000 watts
MW    5   Megawatt                5  1,000 kilowatts
klh   -   Kilawatt hour               1,000 watt hours
(]Wh   -   Gigawatt hour              1,000,000 kdluwatt
hours
NVA   a   Megavolt-aupre-  1,000 kilovolt-arperes
M?VAr a   MIgavolt-ampere reactive
kV    a   Kilovolt                    1,000 volts
WAPDA's Financial Year ends June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
APPA   Airican Public Power AssociatLon
Harza  Hara          ng Cmpar International
IBP    Indus Basin Pro3ect
KE5C   Karachi M1ectric Supply Corporation Ltd.
PIC    Paldktan Insurance Corporation
PMSD   Power Market Survey Division
SCARPs Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects
USAID   U.S. Agmncy for International Development
WAPDA  West Pakiatan Water and Power Development Authority



WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF WAPDA POWER PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ............................                                      i
1.              INTRODUCTION  ...........                   ............................                     1
2.              BACKGROUND                 ............................* ............                        2
The  Economy  .              ..................................                      2
Indus Basin Development ................                                             2
3.              THE  POWER  SECTOR  ....                  ...............................                    3
KESC        ..........................................                               4
WAPDA  Sales                 ...................................                     4
The  WAPDA  System  ..................................                               4
Load  Forecasts  .......                ........................          .          5
The  Development  Program  ..................                       .....            6
4.              THE PROJECT .... ..                          .........    7
Substations  ..                .................................                     7
Transmission  Lines  .......                   .....................                 7
Transformer  Repair  Program  ..                       ..................            7
Cost Estimate . ......................                                               8
Engineering; Consulting Assistance ............                                      8
Procurement  ..                 .................................                    9
Disbursements ....................                                                   9
5.             PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION   .......                   .................. .                       9
6.              THE  BENEFICIARY                   ....................................                     10
Organizational  Structure   ......................                                  10
Reorganization  ........                 ........................                   11
Consulting  Services  ......                  ................. ....                12
Personnel  ...............                 . ....................                   12
Financial  Constraints  .                   ........................                12
Accounting ......  13



-2-
Page No.
7.           FINANCIAL ASPECTS  . .              ........................... .   .....        14
Tariffs .............                                   I .......        14
Past Operations .              .............,..........    15
Present  Financial Condition  ...                 ..................     16
Audit  .... o.... o................................ ......               18
Insurance            ......................................              19
Financial Plan  ........            .........................            20
Future  Earnings  ..... .........................                        21
Future  Financial Position  ......................                       22
8.           RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................                  ................          23
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. J. Fish and F. Rydell.



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX
1.   List of Recent Studies and Summaries of Recommendations
2.   Detailed Description of the Project
3.   Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1965/66 - 1974/75
4.   Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, June 30, 1966-1975
5.   Interest Schedule, 1969/70 - 1974/75
6.   Amortization Schedule, 1969/70 - 1974/75
7.   Debentures Schedule, 1969/70 - 1974/75
8.   Forecast Source and Application of Funds Statement, 1969/70 - 1974/75
9.   Schedule of Arranged Foreign Loans
CRART
1.   Substation Capacity and System Demand, Actual and Forecast 1963-1975
MAP






WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF WAPDA POWER PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a Project to augment the sub-
station capacity of the power system of the West Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA). A development credit of $23 million is
proposed, which would be relent to WAPDA on normal Government lending
terms for concessionary foreign credits, i.e. at 4X interest and repayable
over 20 years after a grace period of 5 years. The Credit would cover the
foreign exchange costs of the Project, whose total cost would be about
$40.0 million equivalent.
ii.       The Project would include about 900 MVA of substation capacity,
which would meet WAPDA's requirement for transmission and distribution
substations in its development program for the period 1971-1973. The Proj-
ect also includes provision for teclnical assistance to establish a trans-
former repair program and provision for employment of consultants for the
study of certain management problems. WAPDA would engage consultants for
procurement and construction supervision. Other engineering arrangements
are satisfactory.
iii.      This would be the first lending operation for WAPDA apart from
the Bank Group's participation in the Indus Basin Development Fund Agree-
ment.  A separate group within WAPDA administers the Indus Basin Project
(IBP) which is isolated from the rest of the organization. The proposed
Credit will establish closer ties between the Association and WAPDA
which should prove invaluable as the Indus Basin development program moves
into the operating phases.
iv.       The quality of service offered by WAPDA's power system has been
declining. Recent investigating missions have noted that institutional
reforms, as well as technical improvements in the system, are needed to
reverse the decline. The proposed Project would remedy many of the tech-
nical difficulties. To achieve some of the institutional reforms, WAPDA
has agreed to improve accounting and system planning, to review other management
areas where improvements in efficiency may be possible, and to introduce needed
changes.
v.        Goods financed by the Credit would be procured by international
competitive bidding, but participation of local suppliers would be permitted
in contracts for low-voltage switchgear, with a local preference of up to
15%. It is proposed that the Association finance the full cost of the
switchgear, whether from local or off-shore suppliers. If local suppliers
win awards, about $800,000 of local costs may be financed from the credit.



- ii -
vi.       The proposed project would provide substation capacity to supply
waiting agricultural and industrial loads, correct serious deficiencies in
the existing secondary transmission and distribution systems, and enable
the full benefits of earlier investments to be realized. The segmented
nature of the Project, as well as the lack of accurate costs due to
limitations in WAPDA's accounts, makes it impossible to calculate an
incremental rate of return for the Project. However, the specific return
would tend to be very high; a result of the large investment in existing
generating and transmission facilities.
vii.      WAPDA's power investment requirements for 1970/71 through 1973/74
mount to PRs 2,300 million (US$482 million). The proposed Credit would
cover 5% of these requirements, other foreign loans approximately 35% and
Government loans 37%. Miscellaneous income would provide about 2% and WAPDA
has agreed to increase its financial rate of return to enable it to finance
the balance of 21% from its net internal cash generation. Much of this in-
crease could come from improvements in system efficiency, but a tariff in-
crease may be required later in the project period to obtain the necessary
funds.
viii.     The Project represents about half of WAPDA's investment require-
ments for its secondary transmission program over the project period. This
program is needed to utilize investments already made in generation and
distribution facilities. As a condition of the proposed Credit, the Govern-
ment has agreed that sufficient funds would be made available for the Proj-
ect and the related transmission lines needed to complete the secondary
transmission program to permit utilization of the Project facilities.
ix.       The proposed Project would form a suitable basis for a development
credit of $23 million.



WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF WAPDA POWER PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Pakistan has requested Bank Group assistance
in financing a Project to augment the transmission and distribution sub-
station capacity of the power system of the West Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA). The total cost of the Project is estimated
to be about $40 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component of
$23 million equivalent is proposed to be covered by a development credit
to the Government, to be relent to WAPDA as the beneficiary under the
Government's normal relending terms for power projects (paragraph 7.24).
1.02      The proposed Project would provide substation capacity to supply
waiting agricultural and industrial loads, thereby restoring balance to
WAPDA's power system and enabling the full benefits of earlier investments
to be realized. In addition, the Project would provide capacity for normal
growth requirements during the first half (1970-1973) of the 4th Plan
period.
1.03      The Bank Group has had a long-standing involvement in water and
power development in Pakistan, principally through the Indus Basin develop-
ment program. There have been two loans and one credit as contributions
to consortium financing of multi-purpose projects in the WAPDA service
area: Loans 266-PAK (1960) and 548-PAK (1968), totaling $115 million,
and Credit 60-PAK (1964) for $58.5 million. As the executing agency for
the project works, only a very small part of which has been for power,
WAPDA has done a remarkable job of implementation. The Authority has also
done well in meeting load growth in its power system under the handicap of
limited resources. Nonetheless, there are substantial shortcomings, as
noted in the reports of recent review missions (paragraoh 2.05); service
quality is mediocre and system losses and energy unaccounted for are very
high, among other difficulties. Financing for the proposed Project, which
was requested by the Government early in 1969, provides an opportunity to
assist WAPDA in seeking solutions to its power problems.
1.04      This report is based on information collected by Messrs. J. J.
Fish and F. Rydell during an appraisal mission to Pakistan in November/
December 1969.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
The Economq
2.01      Of Pakistan's total population oc 132 million, about 61 million
live in West Pakistan. The annual per capita income in this Province is
estimated to be $130. Although its economy is predominantly agricultural,
there has been a very rapid growth of industry, which started from a
negligible base at Pakistan's iriZependence in 1947 and reached 15% of GDP
in 1968/69. Urbanization also has been increasing. Economic and political
conditions have been generally unsettled in the past two years. It is
expected that the growth of the economy over the next five years will be
about 5% ?er annum; somewhet less than the 6% average annual rate achieved
over the past decade.
2.02      Powe : demand in West Pakistan has been increasing at about 17%
per year, due to the requirements of a-riculture for tubewell pumping and
of industry and the urban centers for electricity services. This high
growth rate - coupled wit.h WAPDA's lack of sufficient finances to properly
expand the transmission and distribution capacity of its power system --
has led to the decline in qual_ty of service provided by the power system.
Indus Basin Development
2.03      Under the Indus Waters Treaty of 1960, it was agreed that a series
of civil engineering works should be constructed in West Pakistan to aid in
the replacement of river flows diverted to irrigation u3es in India. The
program of works, known as the Indus Basin Project (IBP), comprised link
canals, barrages and Mangle Dam. Mangla, completed in November 1967, in-
cluded 400 MW of generating capacity which was financed separately from
the IBP. Further de'relopment of the Basin is being undertaken through
construction or the Tarbela Dam Project, started in 1968 and financed with
Consortium assistance. WJAPDA, as the agency responsible for implementation
of the IBP, set up a separate section in its organization to administer IBP
and this section has enjoyed considerable autonomy. Previous Bank Group
lending operations for the IBP did not involve WAPDA's power wing, so the
proposed Credit would be the first lending operation to WAPDA in its capa-
city as a public utility.
2.04      WAPDA's power system is related to agricultural development in the
Indus Basin in two important respects: (1) the system will come to depend
heavily on the generating capacity of both Mangla and Tarbela, and (2) the
tubewells included in the irrigation works already require one-fourth of the
system's output and represent most of the waiting agricultural load. The
number of both private and public wells has increased dramatically since
1960. From 5,000 in that year, the private tubewells have increased to
75,000, half of them electrified and the remainder diesel-powered. By mid-
1969 there were 3,800 operating public tubewells, all electrified with
another 2,400 completed and awaiting connection. The load characteristics



- 3 -
of these tubewells lead to different patterns of power consumption; the
private tubewell load varies with the farmers' need for supplemental irri-
gation water, while the public wells -- installed in the Salinity Control
and Reclamation Projects (SCARPs) for land reclamation purposes -- place a
regimented high load-factor demand on the power system.
2.05      Four recent reports covering WAPDA and the power sector are
relevant to this appraisal. Descriptions of these reports and summaries
of the recommendations are given in Annex 1. The first of these, the 1967
Lieftinck Report, established the content and justification of WAPDA's
power system development program. This was followed by the report of a
1968 Bank mission which reviewed progress in implementation of the Lieftinck
program; gave detailed suggestions for improvements in operations and manage-
ment in the fields of planning, accounts and billing, personnel and training;
and recommended a study of WAPDA's organizational structure. In 1969 there
were two subsequent reports; one by Lord Hinton (the Bank's special advisor
on power) which recommended narrowing WAPDA's responsibilities and improving
efficiency through changes in management policies, and the other--a study of
WAPDA's need for consulting services in management and operations--prepared
by a group from the American Public Power Association (APPA) sponsored by
U.S.AID.
2.06      During negotiations WAPDA agreed to undertake some of the changes
in procedures and policies recommended in these reports; however, in view
of the then impending dissolution of unitary government in West Pakistan, it
was decided not to require specific changes in WAPDA's organizational structure
as conditions of the proposed credit. Lord Hinton' s report, which contains
recommendations in line with the Bank Group's views on reorganization (para-
graph 6.04), was distributed to the Government so as to be available when
the decisions on WAPDA's future form are made.
3.   THE POWER SECTOR
3.01      Generation of public power in West Pakistan is split between WAPDA
and Karachi Electric Supply Corporation Ltd (KESC). KESC has 390 MW of
installed generating capacity and supplies Karachi and environs. Peak demand
in 1969 was 200 MW. WAPDA, with headquarters in Lahore, operates four sys-
tems supplying virtually the rest of West Pakistan (see Map). WAPDA's in-
stalled capacity as of June 1969 was 1158 NW and the peak demand in 1969 was
about 700 MW, not including load shedding estimated at 85 MW, made necessary
by the shortage of transmission and substation facilities. The largest
system is the Northern Grid supplying the Punjab, which accounts for 90% of
WAPDA's sales and revenues.



-4-
KESC
3.02      KESC has about 220,000 customers.  Sales were about 1000 GWh in
1969 and have been growing at about 17% in recent years, although the growth
rate slowed to only 11% last year due to the generally unsettled political
and economic conditions. KESC is a private s3tock company with Government
participation. It possesses dynamic managemant and its system is well run.
There is no significant unsatisfied demand. KESC has been the beneficiary
of four previous loans/credits; the latest (Loan 488-PAX. in 1967) covered
the addition of a 125-MW unit at KESC's Korangi C generating station.
WAPDA Sales
3.03      As of June 1969, WAPDA had 1,072,000 customers, mostly in urban
areas. Sales for the year ending June 30, 1969, were about 3000 GWh, in
the following categories:
Industrial                     1360 GWh         (47%)
Agricultural (Tubewells)         750 GWh        (26%)
General and Commercial           410 GWh        (14%)
Bulk Supply                      400 GWh        (13%)
The importance of industrial and agricultural sales is evident.  Bulk sales
are primarily to private distrubutors operating in Rawalpindi and Multan;
WAPDA sells at retail throughout the rest of the service area. Its sales
have grown at an average rate of 17% per year over the past 10 years despite
load shedding due to equipment shortages and breakdowns, the Indo-Pakistani
War, and periodic refusals to connect new loads (there has been a moratorium
on connection of agricultural and industrial loads since September 1968).
Simultaneously, there has been a steady increase in losses and energy un-
accounted for, from 24% of net generation in 1965/66 (already quite high) to
32% in 1968/69. Increases in distribution system losses due to the need for
system rehabilitation in urban areas account for a large part of these losses,
but unrecorded consumption also ie significant and distorts the consumption
figures given above. During negotiations WAPDA agreed with the Association
on a program for undertaking a comprehensive effort, administered by a spe-
cific group, to identify and reduce system losses, and to report to the
Association periodically on progress in this matter.
The WAPDA System
3.04      WAPDA's basic system is shown on the Map.  The main generating
sources are the hydro plants in the north at Warsak (160 MW) and Mangla
(400 MW), and thermal plants at Lyallpur (132 MW), Multan (265 MW) and near
the gas fields in the south at Sukkur (50 MW) and Gudu (220 MW, under con-
struction). In addition, there are gas turbines at Lahore and Hyderabad,
and several small hydro stations utilizing head differences on irrigation
canals. The small system at Quetta is based on a coal-fired plant and will
continue to be expanded on that energy source.



- 5 -
3.05      WAPDA's basic transmission system is 132 kV, structured around
a double-circuit loop which forms the Northern Grid. A 220-kV line is just
being completed to connect Mangla with the load centers near Lahore, and
there is a 220-kV tie between Multan and Lyallpur. Subtransmission is at
66 kV and 33 kV. By mid-1968, WAPDA had over 6500 miles of transmission/
subtransmission lines and over 23,000 miles of 11-kV distribution lines.
3.06      Part of WAPDA's difficulties in meeting system demand in recent
years has been due to forced improper operation of generating plant and
other facilities, due to shortage of spare parts for proper maintenance and
repair. Steps to remedy this situation have been taken, notably through
obtaining Government approval to import spares on a cash-cum-bonus basis
(i.e., purchasing foreign exchange through bonus vouchers, which raises
the effective exchange rate to about PRs 9 per dollar), and developing a
routine program for identifying and purchasing adequate stocks of spares.
Load Forecasts
3.07      Routine load forecasting is the responsibility of WAPDA's Power
Market Survey Division (PMSD), a separate organization within WAPDA that
has its own staff in the Authority's regional offices. The Division pre-
pares an annual forecast report, which is delivered to WA-PDA's other depart-
ments much as a consultant's report would be. The Authority then proceeds
to seek financing for the short-range development program outlined in the
PMSD report. Since this can be a protracted undertaking (paragraph 6.08),
the required system changes are introduced only two to three years after
the need is identified, and inevitably are unresponsive to interim shifts
in load patterns. This planning defect is partly responsible for the pre-
sent shortage of substation capacity and the consequent inability of the
system to serve new customers. For example, in the new industrial area
between Lyallpur and Lahore -- relocated as a result of the Indo-Pakistani
War -- the planning delay has resulted in a severe shortage of substation
capacity. Of the total of 31,600 applications for service pending in
October 1969, representing 258 MW of load, nearly half were in the Lyallpur-
Lahore region. During negotiations this matter was disecussed and WAPDA
agreed to review planning of short-range expansion and the function of the
PMSD.
3.08      The PMSD estimate is demand-based and is used primarily as a
system planning tool. For revenue forecasting purposes WAPDA's accounting
department has prepared its own estimate of sales based on past trends.
These latter estimates predict a rate of growth of 16% per annum for the
first three years 1970 through 1972, and 10% thereafter. With suitable
adjustment for system losses the accounts department's estimates of sales
can be reconciled with PMSD demand estimates and also with the estimates
of sales and generation in the Lieftinck Report. The forecast shown in
Annex 3 is the accounts department's estimate adjusted for a decrease in
unbilled consumption. Because it is impossible to predict with any degree



- 6 -
of accuracy the extent of the present large unsatisfied demand, the degree
of success which may be expected in reducing unbilled consumption and other
losses, and the changing pattern of private tubewell utilization, these
forecasts will require frequent revision to enable adjustments to be made
to the development program as conditions change.
The Development Program
3.09      The power market in West Pakistan has been the subject of numerous
investigations, notably the intensive study undertaken in conjunction with
the Lieftinck Report (paragraph 2.05), because of the economic importance
of the tubevell load and its relation to planning in the agriculture sector
and the need for reliable estimates upon which to base the Indus Basin
development. The basic structure of WAPDA's long-range program has been
established in these previous studies. The proposed Project would meet
the shortage of substation capacity which has developed in this program.
3.10      WAPDA's future generating program, which follows the Lieftinck
reco mendations, includes the 2100-MWT Tarbela project (the first stage, 700
MW, is under construction) additional units at Mangla, and a 200-MW addition
at Gudu. No new generating sites are proposed through 1980, with the pos-
sible exception of a 200-MW development at the Lakhra coal field near Hyder-
abad. The 132-kV transmission system will be extended south from Sukkur to
Hyderabad and on to Karachi by 1972, replacing the temporary Hyderabad-
Karachi connection and completing the interconnection along the full length
of the Indus Basin. To make full use of Tarbela, however, a stronger tie
is needed and will be provided by a 500-kV transmission link. The first
section of this line, from Lyallpur to Gudu, is to be built under a pro-
posed Russian credit, and the Tarbela-Lyallpur link is now being designed.
The section from Gudu to Karachi is being restudied because of potential
problems with saline corrosion and contamination, and as a result construc-
tion will be deferred to 1978 or later. During negotiations WAPDA agreed
to keep the Bank Group informed on the progress of these studies and the
proposals for system development.
3.11      The generation and transmission program described in the preceding
paragraph, together with on-going projects, accounts for 52Z of WAPDA's pro-
posed investment during the 4th Plan period. The remaining 48% of the in-
vestment, which includes the proposed Project, is for secondary transmission
(15%) and distribution (33%). This program would increase WAPDA's total
fixed assets by 66% in the next five years. Though not an excessively high
rate of expansion for an efficient utility of WAPDA's size, it may be ex-
pected to put a severe strain on WAPDA's resources until such time as orga-
nizational reforms can be introduced.



- 7 -
4. THE PROJECT
4.01      The Project comprises primarily additions to and expansions of
WAPDA substations, including about 900 MVA of transformer capacity and neces-
sary switchgear and auxiliary equipment. This would meet WAPDA's require-
ments for substations for the first 3 years of the 4th Plan period (FY 1971-
1975). Incidental transmission line materials, a transformer repair program,
engineering services and management assistance also are included. Portions
of the Project will be taken into service as completed, and all work should
be finished by mid-1974. Annex 2 gives a detailed description of the Project
content.
Substations
4.02      The Project includes procurement and installation of equipment in
half of WAPDA's 200 substations to reinforce the 220/132-kV and 132/66-kV
systems and to provide capacity to meet the growing demand. Less than 10%
of the capacity to be added will be at new locations.
4.03      WAPDA has prepared detailed schedules of equipment, including
transformers, proposed for each substation. Since one of WAPDA's short-
comings is lack of flexibility in planning (paragraph 3.07), which will
take some while to correct, reasonable variations in locations and equipment
specifications would be allowed during the execution of the Project provided
that the basic "reinforcement" character of the Project is not altered.
4.04      The Project includes devices for voltage control at distribution
substations to supplement similar equipment being added under a U.S. AID
program, and 11-kV switchgear required to connect the proposed transformer
capacity to the distribution lines.
Transmission Lines
4.05      The Project would include double-circuiting one section of the
132-kV line between Dharki and Rohri in the Upper Sind area which will re-
quire the addition of 64 route miles of new conductor on existing towers.
This conductor, which would be of a type not manufactured in Pakistan, would
comprise the only major foreign exchange requirement in WAPDA's extensive
line-construction program complementing the proposed Project.
Transformer Repair Program
4.06      At the present time, about 300 MVA of substation transformer
capacity (20% of WAPDA's total) is out of service. WAPDA has workshops
and heavy equipment adequate to handle these large units, but needs tech-
nical assistance and financing for the repair parts and special equipment



- 8 -
needed to make use of these facilities for rehabilitating transformers.
The Project would include instructors for on-site training and the repair
parts and equipment needed to continue the transformer repair program through
the construction period. The engineering consultants (paragraph 4.08) would
develop and guide the program. Because of the uncertainty of the timing of
the rehabilitation program and the exact technical characteristics of the
rehabilitated transformers, the Project cost estimate provides for all new
transformers. However, if available, suitable repaired units would be subs-
tituted for new units otherwise required.
Cost Estimate
4.07      The estimated costs of the Project are shown below:
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
- - - PRs million - - - - US$ million - -
Substation structures
and Switchgear                   51.1    66.0    117.1   10.7    13.9    24.6
Transformers                       14.5    23.5      38.0    3.1      4.9     8.0
Transmission Line Materials         1.8     1.8       3.6    0.4      0.4     0.8
Engineering and consulting
services                          4.4     7.5      11.9    0.9      1.6     2.5
Contingencies                       7.5    10.7      18.2    1.6      2.2     3.8
Total Construction Cost       79.3   109.5    188.8   16.7    23.0    39.7
The contingency allowance of about 10% is reasonable.  The local costs in-
clude 50% duty on imported materials.  Excluding the duty, the distribution
substations would cost about $15/kVA, which is comparable with substation
costs in similar systems.
Engineering; Consulting Assistance
4.08      The basic system design was prepared by Harza Engineering Co.
International (Harza), a U.S.A.-based firm, WAPDA's general con-
sultants. Detailed designs and specifications are being prepared by
WAPDA's Design and Standards Department. During negotiations WAPDA con-
firmed that it will engage consultants to review and approve the specifi-
cations and supervise implementation of the Project. As a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit, WAPDA would be required to have com-
pleted arrangements for engaging the consultants. In addition to these
consultants, the project also includes provision for management assistance
as described in paragraph 6.03.



-9-
Procurement
4.09      Except for transformer repair parts and other minor proprietary
items, procurement will be by international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Association's guidelines. Participation of local manufacturers
of 11-kV switchgear would be allowed, since Government has agreed to waive
the prohibition on the import of such switchgear in the event the contract
awards are won by off-shore suppliers. A local preference of 15% on
the CIF price, or the prevailing duties if lower, has been requested by
the Government and would be allowed. It is proposed that the full cost of
the 11-kV switchgear be financed from the Credit, whether provided by local
or off-shore suppliers. This cost is estimated at $1,600,000. Since the
value added in local manufacture is estimated to be 35% to 60%, or an
average of about 50%, about $800,000 equivalent of local costs would be
financed if all the contracts are awarded to local firms. These would be
the only local costs financed from the Credit.
4.10      WAPDA's previous practice has been to construct grid stations
under large multiple-station furnish-and-install contracts. This procedure
requires the participation of local contractors and manufacturers' agents.
For the bulk of this Project, WAPDA has agreed to invite separate tenders
for transformers and other equipment and local erection services. This
procedure should encourage wider participation and consequently lower prices.
Disbursements
4.11      Disbursements under the proposed Credit would be restricted to the
actual foreign exchange cost of imported materials and services, with
the exception of costs of 11-kV switchgear (paragraph 4.09). Savings resul-
ting from the utilization of repaired transformers or favorable purchase
costs, and which are not needed for the Project, would be cancelled.
4.12      Some previous Bank Group operations in Pakistan have been subject
to protracted delays in disbursements, in some cases arising from the com-
plex import-licensing arrangements. To avoid a repetition of this ex-
perience, during negotiations discussions were held with WAPDA and the Gov-
ernment to identify possible problems. The engineering consultants (para-
graph 4.08) would be requested to bring to the attention of WAPDA and the
Association any such matters that threaten to delay the Project.
5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
5.01      WAPDA's power market has been the subject of several studies in
depth in connection with the Indus Basin development (paragraphs 2.05 and
3.09). Routine load forecasting for system planning is the responsibility
of WAPDA's Power Market Survey Division (PM.SD).  The latest forecasts made
by PMSD (paragraph 3.08) closely coincide with results from earlier studies



- 10 -
when allowances are made for assumptions concerning the loss-reduction
program and changes in shape of the demand curve. WAPDA's present planning
is based on the latest PMSD forecasts.
5.02      The basic structure of WAPDA's long-range development program has
been established from the load forecasts made in the earlier studies, the
program being the least-cost solution to the problem of meeting the fore-
casts. Because no substantial modifications are being proposed in the fore-
casts, no major changes in the development program are contemplated. Un-
fortunately, partly due to the protracted time in implementing projects and
partly due to inadequate planning, as presently seen, a shortage of distri-
bution equipment has developed especially with respect to substation equip-
ment, e.g., substation transformers (as shown in Chart I). The Project in-
cludes equipment required to make good the shortage and thus enable the out-
put from the largei program of new generating equipment to be made effective.
5.03      The proposed Project comprises part of WAPDA's development program.
Because of the program's complexity and the segmented nature of the
project (see paragraphs 3.11 and 4.01), as well as the lack of adequate cost
data from WAPDA's accounts, it has not been found possible to calculate an
incremental rate of return for either the Project or the development program
as a whole. Since the need for the Project is acute in order to utilize the
generating and transmission facilities (paragrah 5.02), whose costs can be
regarded as "sunk" (i.e., would be excluded from the arithmetic of the rate
of return calculation), the rate of return for the Project would tend to be
high.
6. THE BENEFICIARY
Organizational Structure
6.01      WAPDA was created in 1958 as an autonomous agency of the Govern-
ment of West Pakistan to "... provide for the unified and coordinated
development of the water and power resources of West Pakistan." The Act
establishing the Authority vested in it substantial powers to accomplish
this purpose, but these have been eroded by subsequent specific regulations
and de facto relationships that have developed between the Authority and
the Government.
6.02      WAPDA is organized in two "wings" -- one dealing with power and
the other with the construction of major irrigation works (the "water"
wing). Whereas the preceding discussion in this report has centered on the
operations of the power wing, the comments on organization and related
matters in this section apply equally to both wings.



- 11 -
6.03      The Act of 1958 specified that the Authority would consist of a
Chairman and two members; a third member (Finance) was added in 1967. The
Act implies that the Authority (the board) is to be a policy-making body,
but in fact the regulations that were adopted reserve so many decisions
to the board that inevitably it is drawn into the day-to-day operations.
This has resulted in delays in the decision-making process, which constitutes
one of WAPDA's main weaknesses. As part of a reorganization in December
1969, the two members concerned with the power and water activities, respect-
ively, were designated "Managing Directors" and are to function as the chief
executives of entirely separate organizations below board level. The third
member retains control over some central functions such as legal services,
the computer, budget coordination, and WAPDA House. Each wing member
has the benefit of staff advisors. As this reorganization is still in
a state of flux, it is too early to tell whether it will be effective in
reducing the backlog of administrative matters awaiting decision. During
negotiations WAPDA agreed to employ consultants or make other arrangements
in consultation with the Association for studies in the fields of management,
accounting, engineering and training and for reviewing the recommendations
resulting from such studies and the means of implementing such recommendations.
WAPDA also agreed to review with the Association before December 31, 1970, the
methods to be used in carrying out these studies and, when recommendations
have been received, the time schedule for implementing the accepted recom-
mendations. This will include reviewing with the Association whether the
studies and their implementation can best be carried out by WAPDA itself or
by consultants. The foreign exchange cost of such consultants may be financed
in whole or in part from the proposed Credit provided they are employed under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The consultants could
include a team of experts drawn from a public utility or related organization
in line with Lord Hinton's recommendations on this matter (Annex 1, page 5,
para. x).
Reorganization
6.04      The dissolution of West Pakistan into four smaller provinces may
result in some changes in WAPDA's organizational structure. The
Bank Group has indicated to the Government a preference for a form of
organization -- essentially that recommended in Lord Hinton's report -- in
which the power wing would remain intact under some sort of federal umbrella.
Responsibility for generation/transmission would remain principally a central
concern, but local offices could be given increased autonomy for distribution
and retailing operations. This would preclude problems of assuring financial
autonomy and viability, coordination of planning, and utilization of scarce
management talent -- all or some of which would arise in any other form of
reorganization involving a redistribution of WAPDA's assets. An extreme
reorganization that established independent operating agencies in each
province would be a retrograde step, and it is difficult to envisage such an
arrangement working successfully.



- 12 -
6.05      The dissolution decree issued by the President on April 2, 1970,
provides that WAPDA shall remain as an entity under the Office of the Presi-
dent, guided by a multi-provincial council. While this appears to be a
satisfactory arrangement, its continued functioning will depend on WAPDA's
ability to improve its efficiency and provide effective service. During
negotiations WAPDA agreed to keep the Association informed of any subse-
quent proposal for reorganization; however, In order to protect the Asso-
ciation's interests, the legal documents for the proposed Credit include
provision that any substantial change in organization affecting WAPDA
which would have an adverse effect on the Project or WAPDA's operations
could be considered an event of default.
Consulting Services
6.06      Since 1960, WAPDA has retained Harza as its general consultants
for engineering and planning services in both the power and water fields.
During this period, Harza has trained WAPDA staff in this work and has
gradually transferred much of it to WAPDA. Harza's contract has been financed
under a series of U.S. AID loans/grants. In addition, WAPDA employs project
consultants on an ad hoc basis.
Personnel
6.07      WAPDA is one of the largest employers in Pakistan and along with its
contractors employs 73,000 persons. Half of these are direct employees of
the Authority's power wing, including about 1000 engineers. Because of a
deliberate policy of labor-intensification on the part of the Government,
the absolute number of employees is larger than would be expected in a
similar size utility elsewhere in the world. An investigation of this
aspect of WAPDA would fall naturally to the management consultants (para-
graph 6.03). Utilization of the engineers presents a problem, as the
tendency is to treat this group as a cadre of generalists to be drawn on for
management talent. As a result -- and also because of specific promotion
policy -- advancements tend to be attained obliquely rather than vertically
in the organization; hence there is little, if any, continuity of experience
in any one discipline. This policy has inhibited the Authority in developing
a cohesive, responsive organization, and it is this point that is most often
critized by those reviewing its or-anization (cf. Annex 1, the summaries of
recommendations). During negotiations WAPDA agreed to review its employee
career-development policy as one of the areas to be studied in the review
of management procedures.
Financial Constraints
6.08      Under present Pakistan Government policies, the Authority is
dependent on direct external aid arrangements to finance the foreign ex-
change costs of its major projects. In the past these have been largely
bilateral and barter agreements. While it has been relatively easy to
obtain credits for major generation and transmission projects under such



- 13 -
arrangements, the financing of substation capacity, spare parts and similar
smaller requirements has presented problems, particularly with respect to
the lack of flexibility for changes in project content and underestimating
the time needed to arrange credits for this purpose. One result is the
present shortage of substation capacity, which has become a serious bottle-
neck to system growth. As equipment for distribution and sub-transmission
lines is available from local sources, there have been fewer problems in
this part of the power system.
6.09      The Act of 1958 requires WAPDA to obtain Government approval of
any "scheme" which it intends to construct. This provision has been inter-
preted as requiring Government approval of all capital expenditures WAPDA
proposes, including requirements for normal system expansion in substations,
secondary transmission, and distribution. This is in addition to the 5-year
and annual budgets presented for Government approval. Government control of
major investment decisions, particularly for multi-purpose schemes, is
necessary; but excessive control of other expenditures inhibits WAPDA's
ability to fulfill its basic function of providing adequate service to all
who apply. This inhibition shows up most often as cutbacks in the distri-
bution program where incremental changes are most easily accommodated.
During negotiations this matter was discussed, particularly with respect to
WAPDA's ability to retain increases in internal cash generation resulting
from increased efficiency thus providing incentive for WAPDA to introduce
operating economies and reduce losses.
Accounting
6.10      WAPDA's present accounting system is based primarily on the one
that existed in pre-partition days, with subsequent modifications. Such a
system -- essentially concerned with accountability of cash and verification
of expenditures, and based on obsolete accounting procedures and records --
cannot provide management with the meaningful and timely financial informa-
tion necessary for decision-making and control over operations. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that WAPDA would establish an im-
proved accounting system for the power wing satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. This system will be based on a system of accounts especially
adapted to public utility accounting and capable of supplying timely
management information.
6.11      Fixed plant accounting is deficient, as the fixed assets are not
classified. Classification of assets is essential for recording proper depre-
ciation charges. Because of this situation TJAPDA has been recording annual
depreciation by applying a flat 2-1/2% rate to all fixed plant in operation.
Based on WAPDA's own preliminary estimates of the value of fixed assets
that could be classified under the major headings of hydro and thermal
generation and transmission and distribution, and applying normal deprecia-
tion rates to these classifications, a composite depreciation rate of 3-1/2%
is obtained. During negotiations assurances were obtained that -- until plant
accounts have been properly classified and the correct depreciation re-
corded -- the annual depreciation rate will be increased to 3-1/2% com-
mencing in FY 1970/71.



- 14 -
6.12      WAPDA's computer center functions as a separate service depart-
ment. It has its own budget and charges are recorded for the services it
renders to other departments or to organizations outside WAPDA, such as the
Pakistan Western Railway and the Police Department. The IBM 360/30 computer
system was commissioned in December 1968. In the beginning many problems
were encountered, particularly with respect to acquiring experienced per-
sonnel and the training of staff, but these are now being overcome.
7. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
7.01      Since the proceeds of the proposed Credit will be totally allo-
cated to power development, the information in this section applies only
to WAPDA's power wing. The information in the financial statements is
derived from WAPDA's power wing accounts, which are kept independently from
those of the water wing and the whole organization, and for purposes of
this report the forecast has been based on the assumption that WAPDA will
retain its present form after the Provincial break-up (paragraphs 6.04 and 6.05).
Rven if it does not retain this form, the forecast should still remain
valid since the consolidated systems must operate as a viable power sector.
Tariffs
7.02      The Act of 1958 authorizes the Authority to establish its own
charges for electricity, but in practice WAPDA must secure Government
authorization before new rates can become effective.
7.03      The Act provides that --
"The rates at which the Authority shall sell power shall
be so fixed as to provide for meeting the operating
costs, interest charges and depreciation of assets, the
redemption at due time of loans other than those covered
by depreciation, the payment of any taxes and a reason-
able return on investment."
The Government has never specified what constitutes a "reasonable" return,
and this lack of a clear financial goal has led to unsatisfactory earnings
(paragraphs 7.07 and 7.08) and inadequate funds (paragraph 2.02).
7.04      WAPDA's tariffs have been criticized as being complex and in-
equitable, and several tariff studies have been made in recent years by
Harza, the Harvard Advisory Group, and WAPDA's own personnel. These



- 15 -
studies were undertaken for the primary purposes of simplifying the rate
structure, making charges more equitable, and providing WAPDA with more
funds for expansion purposes. In the light of these studies the Authority
revised its tariffs as of July 1, 1969. These revisions simplified charges,
corrected some inequities and increased the average revenue per kWh sold
by about 18%, from 11.01 paisa/kWh to about 13.0 paisa/kWh (2.7 US¢/kWh).
7.05      As will be seen from the financial plan, it has been assumed
that WAPDA would provide from its net internal cash generation about 21%
of the total funds required during the construction period of the project.
WAPDA could achieve this increased level of self-financing in one or more
ways; e.g., by tariff increases, increases in sales beyond those forecast
or an increase in operating efficiency. For the present forecast it has
been assumed that, in addition to reducing system losses (paragraph 3.03),
a tariff increase of about 8% would become effective at the beginning of
FY1972/73. These improvements are expected to result in rates of return
of 8.1%, 8.0%, and 8.4%, respectively, in the years 1972/73, 1973/74, and 1974/
75. During negotiations assurances were obtained that WAPDA would achieve
an annual rate of return, after depreciation charges as specified in para-
graph 6.11, of not less than 8% commencing in 1972/73, that Government would
permit WAPDA to increase its tariffs if necessary in order to achieve such
a return, and that WAPDA would not reduce its tariffs below present levels
in the years to 1972/73. WAPDA further agreed to work towards the goal of
achieving a 10% rate of return and generating sufficient funds for
financing at least 30% of its capital expenditures while maintaining a
debt-service coverage of not less than 1.5. The means of achieving these
objectives are to be reviewed with the Association not later than June
30, 1972.
Past Operations
7.06      Income statements covering operations for the years ending June
30, 1966, through 1969 are shown in Annex 3. Highlights of these income
statements are summarized in the following table, with the rupees expressed
in millions:



- 16 -
Item                                 1965/66   1966/67   1967/68   1968/69
1. kWh sent out (million)           2,754      2,847      3,520      4,294
2. kWh sold (million)               2,089      2,097      2,486      2,939
3. kWh sold as a percentage of
kWh sent out                      76%        74%        71%        68%
Electricity Sales:
4.   Revenue (PRs)                     229       243        280        324
5.   Annual increase, percentage        12%         6%       15%        16%
Operating expenses:
6.   Amount (PRs)                     157        203        191       239
7.   Annual increase, percentage       15%        30%       (6)%7/    25%
8. Operating ratio (operating
expenses to operating
revenue)                          64%        75%        61%       66%
9. Total interest charges (PRs)         87        99        103       135
10. Net income (PRs)                     14      (14)2/       35         2
11. Rate of return                       4.7%      3.5%      6.1%      5.2%
12. Times interest covered               1.0       0.7       1.2       0.9
1/   Decrease
2/   Net loss
7.07      The data in the above table does not depict very successful
operations during the period 1965/66 through 1968/69. Especially signifi-
cant is the percentage of kWh sold to kWh sent out, which shows a very
unfavorable trend. The year 1966/67 was a particularly unfavorable year,
as indicated by the low rate of return of 3.5%, but this was primarily
attributed to the aftermath of the Indo-Pakistani War. Interest coverage
was inadequate during the period.
7.08      The table indicates the volatile nature of WAPDA's past opera-
tions, especially the yearly up and down movement of such important items
as operating expenses (items 6 and 7), operating ratio (item 8), net income
(item 10), rate of return (item 11) and interest coverage (item 12). The
rates of return achieved during the years 1965/66 through 1968/69, ranging
between 3.5% and 6.1%, cannot be considered as satisfactory. Moreover,
the reported earnings during this period have been overstated to the extent
that WAPDA did not record adequate depreciation charges (paragraph 6.11).
With proper depreciation charges, the range of the rate of return would
have been 2.4% to 4.9%.
Present Financial Condition
7.09      WAPDA's balance sheets as of June 30, 1966, through June 30, 1969,
are shown in Annex 4. The balance sheet as of June 30, 1969, was obtained
during the November/December 1969 appraisal mission, at which time WAPDA's
books for the fiscal year had not yet been officially closed. Although
provisional and unaudited, it is deemed acceptable for purposes of the
following review of WAPDA's financial position:



- 17 -
Summary Balance Sheet
June 30, 1969
Amount (million)
US$
ASSETS                               Rupee               Equivalent
Fixed Assets
Net fixed assets in operation                2,879                    605
Work in progress                                302                    63
Total fixed assets                         3,181                    668
Current Assets                                    493                   104
Total Assets                                674                     772
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Government investments                       1,144                    240
Surplus                                        167                     35
Total equity                               1,311                    275
Long-term Debt                                  1,916 /                 403
Current Liabilities                               344-=                  72
Deferred Credits                                   66                    14
Grant                                              37                     8
Total Equity and Liabilities                                        772
1/   Includes PRs 63 million long-term debt due within one year.
7.10      Fixed assets in operation consist of the following:
(PRa million)
Assets transferred from the Electricity
Department of the West Pakistan Provin-
cial Government                                               424
Assets transferred from Central Government                       720
Assets acquired since 1958                                     2,143
Total                                                    3,287
Less:  Reserve for depreciation                                  408
Net fixed assets in operation                                  2,879



- 18 -
7.11      Assets transferred from the Electricity Department in 1959 were
taken over at original cost less accumulated depreciation. Assets trans-
ferred from the Central Government consisted of Warsak hydro plant at PRs
260 million and Mangla hydro plant at PRs 460 million. Transferred costs
of both hydro plants were based on construction costs directly associated
with power only, such as intake structure, tunnel, power house, mechanical
and electrical equipment, and switchyard facilities.
7.12      The capital consists of PRs 1,311 million equity and PRs 1,916
million debt excluding PRs 63 million debt due within one year. Valuations
assigned to the transferred assets are offset in the balance sheet by
similar amounts in the equity accounts. The justification for classifying
these accounts as equity is based on a 1969/70 agreement between WAPDA
and the government that the Authority would not be obliged to repay the
principal amounts, but would be required to pay a 4% annual return on
the value of the transferred assets.
7.13      The following schedule summarizes the debt position as of June
30, 1969, including long-term debt due within one year:
Amount (million)
us $
Source                                   Rupee            Equivalent
West Pakistan Provincial Government      1,286                270
Debentures                                  295                62
Foreign loans                              398                 84
Total               1,979                416
Details on these loans may be found in the Interest and Amortization
Schedules in Annexes 5 and 6, respectively.
7.14      Because of local fund shortages on the part of the West Pakistan
Provincial Government, WAPDA was authorized by the Government in 1961/62
to issue debentures. Debentures were sold to local banks and insurance
companies, and all issues were secured by mortgages on specific power
stations. Details are given in Annex 7.
7.15      WAPDA's balance sheet at June 30, 1969, shows a current ratio
of 1.4/1.0 and a debt/equity ratio of 60/40, and indicates a satisfactory
financial position at that time.
Audit
7.16      Under its Act, the Authority is required to be audited every
year by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Pakistan. About 400 Govern-
ment auditors are attached to the Authority on a permanent basis; they are



- 19 -
located at all points of its operations throughout West Pakistan. Most of
their activities are confined to the detailed audit of claims for reim-
bursement prior to actual payment, and stores control. The annual audit
report contains copies of the financial statements and the comments are
primarily limited to such routine matters as shortages of stores and dis-
crepancies in expenditures.
7.17      In addition, annual audits are made 'oy external independent
auditors; A. F. F'erguson and Company, a firm of U.K. Chartered Accountants,
audits the water wing, and Rahim Jan and Company, a Pakistani firm of manage-
ment consultants and Chartered Accountants, audits WAPDA's Machinery Pool
Organization, which is accounted for as another separate entity. The
power wing, however, does not employ external auditors. During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that WAPDA would engage independent auditors
acceptable to the Association to carry out annual audits of the power wing
and issue complete and detailed audit reports, commencing with the year
1970/71.
Insurance
7.18      About one-half of WAPDA's insurance is carried with the Pakistan
Insurance Corporation (PIC), a semi-autonomous company under the Ministry
of Commerce. Local private insurance companies provide the remaining
insurance. If the coverage involves imported power facilities and
materials, the insurance placed with Pakistani insurance firms is rein-
sured with foreign insurance companies.
7.19      While on the surface it appears that WAPDA's insurance coverage
is satisfactory, in effect there are many shortcomings. Within the past
5 years WAPDA has had difficulty in settling its claims with PIC.
Current unsettled claims with PIC total about PRs 5 million, repre-
senting about 50 claims on plant and about 300 claims relating to marine
and transit insurance. Another problem is the current procedure
of collecting claims involving foreign exchange. In many cases a claim
against a foreign insurance company is settled and Lhe foreign exchange
is credited to the State Bank of Pakistan in favor of the local insurance
company. The latter then remits these funds, converted into rupees at the
official exchange rate, to WAPDA. To replace the damaged items, WAPDA must
then re-acquire the necessary foreign exchange at a rate much higher than
the official rate, thereby materially increasing the purchase price. This
added cost to WAPDA could be avoided if the proceeds of the foreign in-
surance claim would be credited to the Authority as foreign exchange avail-
able for replacement purposes, or if settlement of claims could be made
by the actual repair or replacement of damaged equipment or materials
rather than through cash payments. During negotiations arrangements
satisfactory to the Association were agreed upon whereby WAPDA would be
provided with adequate insurance protection.



- 20 -
Financial Plan
7.20      Forecast source and application of funds statements for the 6-
year period 1969/70 through 1974/75 are shown in Annex 8. While the
proposed Project is expected to be essentially completed by the end of
1972/73, some work and final retention payments will be carried over into
1973/74.
7.21      In the 4-year period through 1973/74, fund requirements are
expected to total about PRs 2,295 million (US$482 million equivalent),
consisting of estimated construction expenditures of about PRs 2,233 mil-
lion (US$469 million equivalent) including interest during construction,
and an increase in net working capital of PRs 62 million (US$13 million
equivalent). The proposed Project, estimated to cost about PRs 208 million
(US$44 million equivalent) - including interest during construction of about
PRs 19 million (US$4 million equivalent) - represents only about 9% of the
fund requirements.
7.22      A summary of the source of funds for the 4-year period 1970/71
through 1973/74 is presented in the following table:
Amount (million)
'JS$
Rupee  Egiuvalent    %
Net Internal Cash Generation
Internal cash generation                    1,667      350
Less:  Interest charged to operations         603      127
Amortization of long-term debt         354       74
Debenture sinking-fund requirements   56         12
Return on equity                       183       38
Total Deductions                1,196       251
Net Internal Cash Generation         471       99       20.5
Borrowings                                    1,772       372      77.2
Other Sources                                    52        11    -2.3
Total                         2,295       482     100.0
7.23      On the basis of the revenue forecast as shown in the income state-
ment (Annex 3), WAPDA would provide about 21% of the required funds from its
internal cash generation after payment of interest charged to operations,
amortization of long-term debt, debenture sinking-fund requiroments, and
return on equity. Except for a very small amount from other sources,
about 2% of the required funds and consisting mostly of interest



- 21 -
income and security deposits, the balance of the required funds would be
provided by long-term borrowings amounting to about PRs 1,772 million or
77% of the total as shown below.
Item                                 Amount (million)
US$
Rupee Equivalent
1 Undrawn balances of existing
foreign loans                              1.5       0.3
2 Proposed Central Government loan
(IDA Credit)                             109.5     23.0
3  Other foreign loans                        805.2    169.2
4  Government loans                           855.9    179.8
Total                   1772.1    372.3
7.24      Estimated draw-downs of these loans are shown in Annex 8, interest
payments in Annex 5, and amortization payments in Annex 6. It has been
assumed that the Credit proceeds would be relent to WAPDA on normal Govern-
ment lending terms for concessionary foreign exchange loans for power pro-
jects -- i.e., 4% interest, a grace period of 5 years, and an amortization
period of 20 years. Items 1, 2 and 3 above cover the total estimated for-
eign costs of the construction program during the 4-year period, 1970/71
through 1973/74. Of this total, WAPDA has already made arrangements for 9
foreign loans amounting to about PRs 198 million. Details on these new
foreign loans are given in Annex 9. The Government loans are the local
funds necessary to cover the estimated local costs which will not be
provided from WAPDA's own funds.
7.25      The financial plan is satisfactory.  During negotiations assur-
ances were obtained from the Government that if there is a shortage of funds
to complete the Project, sufficient funds to cover such shortage will prompt-
ly be made available to WAPDA. This covenant was extended to cover WAPDA's
secondary transmission project, which is the only portion of the capital in-
vestment program directly related to the proposed Project.
Future Earnings
7.26      Forecast income statements showing operating results for the 6-year
period 1969/70 through 1974/75 are presented in Annex 3. The estimated sale
of energy during this period has been based on WAPDA's forecast, which is
rather conservative. Sales are expected to increase about 106% -- from kWh
2,939 million in 1968/69 to kWh 6,040 million in 1974/75, and sales revenue



- 22 -
is forecast to increase about 162% -- from about PRe 324 million in 1968/69
to about PRs 850 million in 1974/75. This revenue estimate is based on the
18% increase in average price per kWh which became effective in July 1969,
and an additional 8% increase to become effective in July 1972 (paragraph
7.05). Depreciation charges have been included on the basis of a 3-1/2%
composite rate (paragraph 6.11).
7.27      Under these assumptions, WAPDA's estimated annual rate of return
on the average net fixed assets in operation should increase from 5.2% in
1968/69 to a high of 8.4% in 1974/75. Interest coverage would increase
from 1.3 to 1.6 times and annual debt service coverage would vary between
1.2 and 1.6 times; somewhat low, but satisfactory in view of Government's
financial participation in WAPDA and the large expansion program.
Future Financial Position
7.28      Forecast balance sheets (Annex 4) show WAPDA's financial position
at the end of each year 1969/70 through 1974/75. The balance sheets clearly
reflect the extent of WAPDA's expansion during this period. Gross fixed
assets in operation increase about 78% -- from PRs 3,287 million at June
30, 1969, to PRs 5,840 million at June 30, 1975.
7.29      A new asset, the debenture sinking-fund account, appears on the
balance sheets commencing in 1969/70.  This account increaes from PRs 12
million in 1969/70 to PRs 84 million in 1974/75 through sinking-fund de-
posits and accrual of interest earned.  By 1978/79 this fund is expected
to reach PRs 105 million, at which time it will be used to redeem Deben-
tures Issue V, the last outstanding debentures.
7.30      The current position should remain satisfactory throughout the
6-year period. This is indicated by a current ratio ranging from 1.3/1.0
to 1.7/1.0.
7.31      It is not contemplated that the Government will make any future
equity investments, and therefore the increase in equity will result only
from accumulated retained earnings. Total equity is shown to increase
from PRs 1,311 million in 1968/69 to PRs 1,763 million in 1974/75 or about
34%.
7.32      Total long-term debt shows a substantial increase of about PRs
1,840 million -- from PRs 1,979 in 1968/69 to PRs 3,819 million in 1974/75.
This large increase is not unexpected, since under the financial plan long-
term debt would be providing about 77% of the total fund requirements during
the Project construction period (paragraph 7.23). Although large, the debt
is not excessive, as indicated by the debt/equity ratio in Annex 4. This
ratio is 60/40 at the end of 1968/69 and would reach 70/30 during the three
years 1971/72 through 1973/74, declining to 68/32 in 1974/75.



- 23 -
8.  RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a) a program for reducing losses (paragraph 3.03);
(b) employment of consultants or making other arrangements
in consultation with the Association for studies of
management problems and for implementing needed
changes (paragraphs 6.03 and 6.07);
(c)  improving WAPDA's accounting system and procedures, in-
cluding depreciation practices (paragraphs 6.10 and 6.11); and,
(d) a rate of return of not less than 8% starting with fiscal
year 1972/73 (paragraph 7.05).
8.02      The proposed Credit would not become effective until WAPDA has
completed arrangements for engaging engineering consultants for the
Project (paragraph 4.08).
8.03      The proposed Project forms a suitable basis for a development
credit of US$23.0 million, to be relent to WAPDA at 4% interest for a term
of 25 years including a 5-year grace period.
July 29, 1970






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6 Pages
PAKISTAN
WAPDA POWER PROJECT
LIST OF RECENT STUDIES AND SUMMARIES OF RECOMMENDATIONS CONCERNING WAPDA
AND THE POWER SECTOR
1.   STUDY OF THE WATER AND POWER RESOURCES OF WEST PAKISTAN (The Lieftinck
Report)
July 1967 (published in book form in 1969 by The Johns Hopkins Press).
Prepared by a World Bank study group headed by Dr. P. Lieftinck;
A. Robert Sadove, deputy head; Thomas C. Creyke, Irrigation and Agri-
culture.  In four volumes plus Annexes.   (This is the second part of
the Study, the first part dealt with the technical and economic justi-
fication of the Tarbela Project.)
Purpose: To serve as a basis for development planning in the water
and power sectors of the economy.
Basic Recommendations:
i)   Tarbela dam should be constructed, to be completed by 1975/76.
ii)   A significantly higher proportion of total investment should
go to the power sector.
iii)   The major markets should be interconnected at 380 kV.
iv)   A careful reappraisal of prospective loads be undertaken
in the early 1970's.
v)   A detailed development program was proposed.
vi)   Emphasis must be placed on distribution construction by
providing funds, improving inventory control, and training
workers.
vii)   Improvements in organization and management should be
achieved by adjusting the existing organizational structure
and improving coordination, rather than by creating new
entities.
viii)   Streamline tubewell project work.
lx)   Public agencies should rely on private enterprise to
implement programs wherever possible.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6 Pages
x)   Review the wisdom of the policy of subsidizing power
costs for tubewells.
xi)   Create a Provincial Irrigation Authority to formulate
overall irrigation policies including water distribution.
xii)   Increase authority of power system dispatchers.
xiii)   Improve WAPDA's billing, collecting and accounting
procedures.
xiv)   Nuclear power should be investigated after 1980.
2.   REPORT OF THE INDUS BASIN REVIEW MISSION - POWER
May 1969, prepared by C. Willoughby and T. Berrie of the Bank staff.
Purpose:  To update the Bank's information on the power sector, and
to review the Lieftinck Report program and progress in attaining the
goals set therein.
Recomaendations:
i)   Improve the relevance of the Power Market Survey
Division's activities.
ii)   Appraise the practicability of changing the shape
of the load curve through load limiting or tariff
incentives.
iii)   Re-examine program priorities in light of probable
budgetary cuts, with particular reference to the
500-kV Karachi connection.
iv)   Emphasize circuits from Mangla and Tarbela, and
distribution construction.
v)   Improve dispatching techniques.
vi)   Make a concerted attack on reducing system losses
and thefts.
vii)    Restrict new connections, and increase substation
capacity.
viii)    Improve inventory coordination.
ix)    Introduce a commercial outlook to WAPDA's organization.
x)    Overhaul the accountancy/inventory system.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6 Pages
xi)    Make a study of organization and methods.
xii)    Review salary schedules to obtain promotion flexibility.
xiii)    Expand the training program.
xiv)    Reconsider the subsidized tariff for tubewells and
revise tariffs to encourage off-peak use.
xv)    There should be a reorganization study of WAPDA.
The report was transmitted to Pakistan, but there is no
clear evidence that the recommendations for internal improvements
were noted.
3.   STUDY OF WAPDA's NEED FOR FUTURE CONSULTING SERVICES
June 1969, prepared under contract to U.S. AID by a team organized by
the American Public Power Association headed by Kenneth Holum.
Purpose: To assess the technical, managerial and administrative capa-
bilities of WAPDA, and to advise as to the specific needs for future
consultant assistance.
Recommendations:
i)   The team recommended a program of 150 man years
of consulting services in eight functional classi-
fications, designed to make WAPDA self-sufficient
in all major functions by October 1974.
The team recommended services in the following categories:
I. Management and Administration.
A.  A management firm, to conduct an audit and
develop specific recommendations to improve
management structure and personnel policies.
B.  A management team, to assist the Board in
interpreting and implementing the firm's
recommendations.
II. Financial Management.
A. A financial management firm to devise a
modernized system of accounts.
B. A computer systems firm to advise on the
use of WAPDA's computer.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6 Pages
III. General Consultants.
A. Continuation of the general power consulting
services.
B. Continuation of the general water consulting
services (including SCARP).
IV. Employee Training.
A. A management-training program, to be conducted by
an established educational institution in West
Pakistan.
B. A firm of employee training consultants, to
expand and coordinate the employee-training
program.
C. A team of safety engineers.
ii)   The Team recognized that the services would be of benefit
only if the Authority's personnel policies are modified
so that trained employees are retained in those areas for
which their skills have been developed.
4.   AN ENQUIRY INTO THE ORGANIZATION OF THE WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY OF WEST PAKISTAN
November 1969, prepared by Lord Hinton of Bankside, the Bank's Special
Advisor on Power.
Purpose: Anticipating the proposed lending action and seeking further
guidance in organizational matters, in September 1969 the Bank commis-
sioned Lord Hinton of Bankside (former chairman of the U.K. Central
Electricity Generating Board) to review WAPDA's organizational needs
and especially, to explore Government constraints on WAPDA in matters
of organization and operation.
The principal recommendations were:
i)   WAPDA's responsibilities are too wide and they must
be narrowed ...separate the Water Wing from the Power
Wing, setting up a West Pakistan Electricity Authority
and returning the Water Wing to the Irrigation Depart-
ment ...
ii)   Conversion of the Irrigation Department into an
autonomous or semi-autonomous Government agency.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6 Pages
iii)   A Power and Water Planning Board sitting under the
chairmanship of the Secretary of Power and Water.
iv)   Decentralization of authority and responsibility
for distribution and retailing of electricity,
but not sale through municipal authorities.
v)   Separation of WAPDA's promotional ladders so that
the normal man commits himself to a career in
generation or in transmission or in distribution
and retailing.
vi)   Abandonment of the Civil Service pattern of the
present structure and practices and adoption of
one of the systems which has been found to be satis-
factory in industry. This applies equally to the
separate bodies into which WAPDA should be split.
vii)   Bank financing of machinery spares and repair
components for generation and transmission plant of
foreign manufacture.
viii)   Commencement of the next stage of distribution
reinforcement without delay and consideration by the
Bank of how this might best be done.
ix)   Sending of one of the advisors regularly used by
the Education Projects Department to Pakistan to
form an expert opinion of the need for help (in
developing WAPDA's training facilities).
x)   Arranging for one of the well-managed utilities
in an overseas country to father WAPDA.
xi)   Support in principle by the Bank to recommendation
1A of the Holum Report for a management "audit".
xii)   A study by WAPDA of the accountancy system used by
the Pakistan Railways.
xiii)   Employment of a firm of Chartered Accountants ex-
perienced in industrial work as WAPDA's auditors.
xiv)   A cautious approach to computerized billing in the
light of WAPDA's experience and local knowledge.
xv)   Support for the Holum Report's recommendation that
the employment of general consultants should be
continued at around its present level.



M=  1
Page   of 6 pages
xvi)   A cautious approach by the Bank to re4omn4at4An IVA
of the Holum Report (management training programme).
xvii)   The sending of staff to a single selected uti4ty
for training.
xviii)   Support by the Bank for recommendation IVC of the
Holum Report on limited lines (safety training).



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
PAKISTAN
WAPDA POWER PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
Description
Cost estimates for the Project are based on purchase and installa-
tion of equipment and provision of services as indicated in the following
schedules. It is specifically intended to allow reasonable adjustments in
the Project as required to meet shifting load patterns and design changes.
A.   SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT
1.   Transformers:             30 MVA  20 MVA  15 MVA  10 MVA  5 MVA
132-66 kV                   5         -       9        -      -
132-11 kV                   -         9       2       22      -
66-11 kV                             -       -       11      18
repair parts and spares for substation transformers
2.   Switchgear Bays:
132 kV; 153 ea.      66 kV; 27 ea.
3.   Circuit Breakers:
132 kV; 159 ea.      66 kV; 14 ea.
4.   Low-Voltage Switchgear:
11-kV metal clad; 450 sections
5.   Capacitors:
11-kV, 400 MVAr, metal clad or outdoor, with switching equipment,
controls and cabling.
B.   TRANSMISSION LINE MATERIALS
1.   64 route miles of bundled "Tiger" conductor, to be strung on
existing towers;
2.   imported special hardware and accessories for this and other
lines in the related program;



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
3.   erection services and technical assistance, if required.
C.  ENGINEERING, INSPECTION, SUPERVISION AND TRAINING
1.   Engineering services for specification review, procurement
supervision and bid evaluation, contract administration,
construction coordination and inspection and adm-inistration
of the transformer-repair program, all associated with the
Project. (220 man months.)
2.   Inspection and forwarding services for equipment financed
under the credit.
3.   On-site training services for repair and maintenance of
substation and distribution transformers (60 man months),
related equipment and special-purpose vehicles and tools
sufficient to equip up to three workshops.
4.   Consultants in utility management (120 man months).
Cost Estimate             Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
---- PRs million ----    ---- US$ million --
A. Substation Equipment:
H-V Switchgear and
Structures         37.4    53.2    90.6       7.86    11.17   19.03
Transforuers          14.5    23.5    38.0       3.04     4.94    7.98
L-V Switchgear         7.5      7.3    14.8      1.58     1.53    3.11
Capacitors             6.2      5.5    11.7      1.30     1.16    2.46
65.6    89.5   155.1    13.78    18.80   32.58
B. Transmission Line
Materials                1.8      1.8     3.6      0.38     0.38    0.76
C. Engineering and Training:
Engineering            2.0      3.2     5.2      0.42     0.67    1.09
Inspection and
Forwarding            1.9     0.8      2.7     0.40      0.17    0.57
Transformer Repair
Training Program
consultants         0.1     0.9      1.0     0.02      0.19    0.21
tools & equipment  0.4      0.7      1.1     0.08      0.15    0.23
Management Experts      -       1.9     1.9       -       0.40    0.40
4.4     7.5    11.9      0.92      1.58    2.50
D. Contingencies            7.5    10.7    18.2       1.58     2.24    3.82
Total Construction
Cost                 79.3   109.5   188.8    16.66    23,00   39.66
These estimates include as local costs duties and taxes of about 50% on
imported materials.



WVT PAKSAN
U      AND 1PIWR DKWE1OIU  AUfORIUY
Od ER ulsr
OWR  YINGW
P WS
Actual and Forecast ICm   Statements
(RIApee TbonaadJ
Year !h8 June 30                     1966          1967         19b 196, 16                   1970         1971          1972         1973         M17           1975
b1bh generated (silliom)                      2,910        3,016         3,6t1S       b4,50           b1,800        5,710        6,310         6,830        7,4ao         7,900
kiWb sent out (mil-tlia)                      2,7514       2,847         3,520        4,294.          h,632         5,510        6,079         6,591        7,11.1        7,623
kh sold !a1i11ons)                            2,089         2 097        2,1.86       2,939           3,300         4,030        h,540         5,020        5,550         6,0L0
kik sold as percentae of i  sent ant        - 76%          7%            ns           68%             71%           ?3%           75%          76%          78%           79%
Average price per kWh (pmiea)                    10.96                       .26         11.01          -13-00         13.00        13.00                        0  1607   1...i07
Operating Reverme
Sale of electricity                    229,020       242,700      279,890       323,70D         129,000      523,900       590,200      706,31n       780,885      849,828
Otber  pwati  rvenwe                    l,630         30,250       33,230       4),460           21,000       25,30         27,800       3D,6o0        33,700       37,100
Total Operting  kn               246&L5       272.9$0       313,12                       i.50.Joo 56200             618.000       736,93h      Uh.585        886,928
OPerati.na Mc3-seo
Purchased pnver                                                                                   2,000        3,000         3.000        3,000         3,000        3,000
Fuel cst  -                             1.3,750       72,920       50,810       65,650           70.050       n,o000        79,500       89,500        9h,500      103,500
Other gs-nerating coats                 33,620        42,000       1.1,080       49,130          66,o0o       82,620        95,860      11O,550       121,,3b0     128,830
Trar-szission                            5.070         5,580        5, o         6,260            7,0          8,790         9,580       10, 910       11,950        12,670
Wi3rtiution                             19,160        20,3b0       24,670        27,960          33,530       39,6bo        h3,220       49,320        53,880       57,150
Carcial operatio                         6,170         7,5b0        7,760        8,580           10,390       12,950        13,5h0       15,490        16,930       17,950
Dep-eeia.:-on                          b.9,:hO        55.080       61,010        81,010          85,060      127,538       138.?77      159.214       180,232      195,719
Total Operating  gp"es           156,90       203,b60       190,730      238,590         2714,,80      351,538      382,777       b33,012      1.8h,832      513.3!9
OtDerttng 7rca                               89,740        69.49o      122,390       125.570         175.520      19.662        235,223      298,900       329.753      368.109
let Intee-3t Charges
To'al  erest charges (-nr 5)             86,810       98,520      103,180       13b,880         136,232      157,671       184,672       202,9L2      218,3614      225,835
less interest charged to construction   10.700        16,630       15,360        11,310          13,160       22.80         b.o060       1.2,030       55,570        bB.1160
Iset interest charges             76.110       53,890        87,820      123,570         123,072       135.191      163,612       160,912      162.791       181.375
Set incune or (Loss) before Other Ioneme     13,630       (14,4tO)      34,570        2,000           52,448       62,471        91,611      137,988       166,959       186,7314
I3rterest'nc.                                           _                         _m              2,903      _3,596          4,239         5,io4}       5,924         6,791
get inc=e or (Io-s)                          13,630       (14,400)      34,570        2,000           55,351       66,067        95,850      143,092       172,883      193,525
Zasa  .rS return  0Cuutral 0overmt
eqe!ty                                                                                  28,800        28,800       28,800        2B,800       28,800        28,800
L% retur  on Provencial Gover3nnt
equity                                                                                  16,975        16.975       16.975        16.975       16.975        16.975
Balance to S=jus                             13,63                      34,570         2,000           9.576       20,292        50.075       97,317       127,108      147,750
Rate of return (operating inCoe to
aVerage net fiXed asse3t in operatio    4.7%         3.5%         6.1%          5.2%            5.9%         6.4%          7.2%          8.1%         8.0%          8.4%
Ti2es total interest charges covered by 
operating incoae                        1.0          0.7          1.2           0.9             1.3          1.3           1.3           1.5          1.5           1.6
Li



U!M hE 2533 u109,   LW! ~   ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       MU 
Wm
J~30                   lSb                                                          WV7                                                      au   zmlin-v 
i     udoat. tn opw.tloo                          2, 1*0,970    2,27S,260     2,319630    3,287,380          3,517,360    3,77Q,I       4,11*        4,95,480    9,314,10    9,10,480
Uwe remr,. for dapi0te 210.190 26.2TD 3 26 2                                     S0                             0 .41%               .J0.kU 7l91 11                           .dL.6
lXt flid  4to in opwa mn                    1,930,78D    2,013,S9D      1,993,340    2,679,080         3,023A       3,2&.9,0    3,183,025    4,036,81       4,214,M7      4,54,860
wor  is                                          '149,090b     215S-        4k6i0        -.tia|             4M6,290       T72.Be   Iggop             75S.420      853,1D       750.350
Total Fixed "ta                              2.079.870    2.269.890      2.4 8eD    3..181. )3,470.230    3I S13                   I    .ka    4 TS1.231    5.092?.       5.A.23
_ -                                                                  -              -            -                 120oS    24.L3    M34U  D.                           67.S16  8.3559
rwl4"_U
Cash                                                  54,910       13,080        90,330       39,100             214,049      2b           29,182       34,344       37,77 W       42,464
Loomota ,mot~~~~~~~l.                   14IJ3,30     51,960         5980 7o N2020                  8980        10480           850 3,20                1,,10        157,0140
Aso0m1    mno        clol it scomt                    60,3340      79290         82,790      1,0270              86 030       71,03        61,030       n6,030        1,030        76,030
Da frm  W*s  Vi,n                                     23,880       41,530        9D,480       72,590            72,590        78,590       72,590       72,990        2,990        72.590
Inotrm                                          112.530      Ui o          141.0 6.260   1V8.T 200.0Z0  0 2G                                  Z40.00D           24o$         20.000D
rIO    oww    m"                               295.0ED       356.760       41.60,       49n.650           466.1,6 483.010                        -1",2 32i4 565.69.7        5°8.124
Total A..t.                                           L 3,=2 E                                                                                                             "I
UD S
Oow,',Ant  IZOtxotf
OmZt,, bwftinSt                                260,030       MO,M          260,000      7,000             720,000       7200         7Z0,00       720,000      720,000       720, oo
Prvtsa GZ"llt                                  424.372       42b.3n2       42A. m7      4Z4.m             424.3T2       MXan        4&LU2         4&3243      __424 3n          3724
TIOW  Orramot In_o_                       684.372       684,372       684,372    1.244,372         1,1L44,372    1,114,372    1,",372    1,144,372    1,1*4,372    1,144,372
>.180        1              17143*o      166,600           176.176      1,6           V4.3         343B60       470.S96      6168.72.
Toa  capital                                       83852  B24.15t     858712    1.310.972          1.320.9P    1,340j         1.390.15    1.488.232    16a            1.761.509
,-b  Dob
Daboubmt.                                            146 750      2034d         191,700      2 700             2       266 2e, 3 ,7       23151        236,700      236,700       236,70D
Og,a m lmo80,8                                               3,8        1,08,298    1,28,26             1,605,1423   I,5,b1       2,095,13    2,219,792    2,2396,030O   2,312,179
Pob.s.d 6.,a.,ouoa loon (Mt 6uilt)                                                                                              47         3,1          9,532  S6 ,1450          129,480
t         fn      lo                                 250,090      323,140        402,750     397,790            427,443      395*   36S 115            333,181      304,220       274,867
mare, forei lor,                                  -                                        -         4ff                                              e 6S4B,678   T9e.so2 685.437
-tl                                      1,217,728    1,462,988     1,603,748    1,978,712          2,31,9566    2,765,765    3,193,946    3,532,883    3,737,332    3,818,663
Lm 1gtaowt ebt de wItMA am - w                       41,94    3,6J1              k5AU         62.636            R  _J U                         1       .o5i         WAY          219.921
low  bag-vo   vt                        131.175.4    11.422.S947    1.638 .37    L9.6B02           2.216.661    26 3                      31.4M.832    32-    43S    3.602.742
0ba" _  ocrOls                                       237,850      251,920       233, 88      280,960            200,000      205,O0       2VuCOD       225,ODO      235,000       250,200
L _wt.m  debt doe witMn Cm  year                     4419          3             454          62.636            82.S03       103J11        %            93 OS1      11569         W.S21
TOW  COnurn     tAbi3itiw                 279,34        29L-W          MM          343.596            262.903      3 1           f42"        3181.051     35D.6        . 465.922
wrd crvft
Soowrty daelit.                                       40,070       46,620        914 J3e      60,290             67,290       74,290       tl,290       88,290        98,290      228,290
_raem, for _OR _e" find                                 .0          k.4           5     t70  S.SD          50  64 5            CM           Tim          7 SSO      B.450        B.950
Toal D2hrred Credit                        4eb          j1og           6c 30D       66.240            73.740      1.2b          J.,          ,96.240      147
Ntim are"                               ~3.90         36.90 W           D 36.90       D   36.         SDO 36D, 36.9W0 36^8 36, S3OD A
Ttal Capital and Ltabilitiee            2.371410 2.266                            .6fi                                  1    iW"3 a          5     .'
DabVeI  rato                         59/41        64/36          66A34        60/40             64/36        67/33         70/30        70/30        70/30         6B/32
Cwrent ratio                         1.V.2         1.2/1.0       1.5/1.0      1.4/1.0           1.7/1.0       1.6/1L.0     1.7/1.0      1.7/1.0      1.6/1.0      1.3/1.0
I      t   _u-'Krm--M* - b6ok, not ofttid117 clOeed
4, 1970



WEST PAKISTAN
WATER AND POXWM D3VELOPENT AUTHORITY
POWER WING
FOWER PROJECT
Interest Schedule on Long-Term Debt
(Rupee Thousand)
Rate of                             Interest Payments
Date of Loan        Interest       1969/70    1970/71    1971172    1972/73    1973/74    197/77
Foreign Loans Outstanding at
June 30, 1969
AID Loans
DLF 25                       February 18, 1959       3i            590        538        484         429        372        312
DLF 29                       February 18, 1959      3½          1,454       1,377      1,296      1,212       1,125      1,036
DLF 79                       June 29, 1959           3½          2,913      2,771      2,625       2,473      2,316      2,154
DLF 177                      June 14, 1961           3½            536        462        385         305        222        137
391-H-083                    July 10, 1964          4            3,055      3,274      3,062      2,889       2,717      2,545
391-H-090                    December 30, 1964      4            2,215      2,380      2,261      2,142       2,023      1,904
391-H-102                    January 19, 1966       4           1,274       1,561      1,483      1,405       1,327      .,249
German Loans
1963        &4          1,236        813         402         47
AL 170                       February 8, 1966       4              254        254        239         223        208        192
UK Loan
6th credit                   November 2, 1962       4              469        445        420         395        371        346
French Loan                                  1965      5h              447        383        319         256        191        128
Japan Loan                       May 6, 1966           5-3/4           539        575        546         518        489        460
Italian Loans
Transmission                 August 9, 1963        6             1,171      1,013        856        698         540        382
Gas turbines                           1968        6             1,029        863        697         531        365        198
Consulting services                    1968        6               101        133        151         114         71         45
Mangla-fourth transformer              1968        6                24         35         30          26         21         17
Debentures (Annex 7)                 1962-1969              6-01        18,687     17,727     16,527      14,727     14,727      L4s727
Proposed Central Government Loan (IDA     1970              4                         109        766       2,628      4,160       4,378
Credit)
Future Foreign Loans                 1970-1975              6                       7,307     21,284      33,437     43,617      51,114
Edsting and Future Provirncal
Governmsnt Loans                                                     1 00338    115,651    130,839    138,487    143,502      141t,511
Total                                               136,232    157,671    184,672   .202,942    218,364    225,835



WEST PAISTAN
WATER AND POWER D4V7LOP10NT AUINORITY
FVWER WINO
POWER FPTDJE&T
A-orti.ation Schedule
(Rupee Thousand)
Original        Loan l2rawdo..d  Repayuents as  Outstanding   Drawings
Jete of                                               Arunt of         0s of June 30     of Jun- 30      Balance     after Jume 30                        Ascrttsatlon  Pasente
Loan                  Pro.Jet                           Loan             2969              1969         June 30.1969     1969          1969/70    1970/71   1973/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75
Foriaon   outstandin
at Jue3,1%9
AID ms
DIF 29               Febr-es  18, 1959      Tubewell electrification        29,630             29,d30           11,940          17,69D                         1,4D2      1,452     1,503    1,565       1,61}     1,666
DLF 29                February 16, 1959     High tension grid station       56,620             56,B20            14,720          42,100                        2,13a      2,213      2,292    2,373      2,456     2,543
DLF 79                June 29, 1959         Secondary tranomiesion and
distribution                 104,070            10.,070           19,870         .84,200                         4,006      4,147     4,294    4,445       4,602     4,765
DLF 177               June 16, 1961         Quetta po-er station            25,550             25,553             9.720          15,830                        2,107      2,182     2,259    2,338       2,421     2,506
391-H-0d3            July 10, 1964          Lyallpur station                a6,156             66,570                           66,970        19,986                      h,306     4,308    4,308       4,308     4,308
391-H-090            December 30, 1964      Distribution expansion          59J,OO             46,260                           46,26o        13,240                                2,975    2,975       2,975     2,975
391-H-102             January 19, 1966      Mangle transeoaeio-             39,032             24,710                           2a.710        14,322                                1 952      955       1 92      1.952
Total AID Loans                                                                                                                              477.14 I.9-U               14 02    19 SH3       1 6371
Gernan Louoo
rmn                               1963      blItan station extension        67,26D             67,260           43,630           23,630                        6,750      6,75o     6,750    3,360
AL 170                February 8, 1966      Maltan/LyaL.pur transwission     6,360              6,360                             6,360                                               -3'7      387        a8      __
29.990                                                      3=7 ___ ___ ___    ~0*
Total Gernan Loans                                                                                                            29,907T                                   67;0      7,137    7,767        30
UK Loan
6th credit            Nove-ber 2, 1962      Nyderabad station               12,350             12,350                            12.350                          642        642       642       642        642       642
French Loan
Credit                            1965      T.o r.bile units at Kotri       12,130             12,130             2,410           9,720                        1,213      1.213     1.213    1,213       1.213     1.213
Japn Loan
5th Credit           May 6, 1966            Fourth Mangla undt              1D,000              6,730                            6,730         1,270           -            _         5O       5°°         500       s
Italian Loans
1l:reantoa           Augnat 9, 1963         Second circuit Multan/lyallpwu  &
distribution                  26,300             26,300            4,150          22,150            0            2,630      2,630     2,630    2,630      2,630      2,630
1968        Four gas tu-bi -ee for Shahdsra
station                       27,695             24,86o            7,770          17,110         2,619           2,770      2,770     2,770    2,770      2,770      2,770
1968        Consulting sen-Ioes for Kotri
and Guddu                      6,212                640              630              lo         3,572             421        421       621      421         691       421
1968       Mangla fourth tran-ofo-er           730                250               60             1                              7          7          3       7          7         71
Total Italian Loans                                                    34                                                                   6,867                                             9           9
Total Foreign Loan, outstanding June 30, 1969                                                                            397,790                       24,152     28,801    34,969   31,972      28,961    29,353
Futwe Foreign Loans                                                                                                                                                                                        06,328    27,465
.Iqting and Foture ProvIncIal
boverrsent loans                                                                                                               1,226,22d                        30,484     34,102    36,684    42,631    49,762    68,851
Debentures (Annex 7)                                                                                                                294,700                        8,OO0    20.0O0    30,000
Tctal                                                                                                            1.976.718                        62,636     82.903   103.813   74.6o3      93.051   115,669
Jue 4, 1970



ANNX 7
|    ^j tII
A    ^  '0 1
g~~~~ g
H1I     
II ~ ~:I
X X~~~~~~~~~~~~I
i  o w  c'o   w0  '0o      0 1
3~ ~~ I il 31 i  a
1^~~~~~         0 °
9i   00 .e tZ     0 o
IJ i   I    ]f   §  
J  X }  }} X  S#] X  §.H    J
-]  i            II202 ]g1 t 
@1  Nt          nH H tt        t
--          - %r  ig^a     i
3i    .4. E    1 .4i 



WT tPStAN
*ME AND PMR -D1YKWS01? MllKluTr
Mlue WI)
Tead ew L=mw 30                        mm            71                                          I     I a   a-19m  as
Iznteral Csh 2e!DMIoN
CperStifl iani                         175,520       197,662   235,223   296,900  329,753            1,061,538            368,109
D    ciat1en                             85.060        2        1388 4=7   159.21h  180.232             605.461            195,719
Totl Interal Cash Oeneration    260.             325.200   373.700  1458.11z  5                  1.666.99             563.828
BontF14f
Uovm,mt loan                            349,679       279,102   281,81,1   165,000   130,000            855,9146            75.oM
bistLz,g toreign loe,                    53,805           95        488        38                         1,480
Fwod Oitral Governsent loan
(iU  Credit)                                          5.474   27,370    65,688    10,948              109,480
Vtere fmimn loom                           -43.572   222.332   182,77h   156.552                        805,232            122,000
T!oaw  3baravina                                 529.102   532,034   613.5W   29flJM             1.772.136            297.000
Other -Srces
8emitr depoett                            7,000         7,000     7,000     7,000    10,000              31,000             10,000
--wq'    fund                               500           500       500       500       500               2,000                500
iatereet inomw                            jPI         _      36    .239     5.1%      5.S42              18,863              6.791
Tutul Other                         lO.ahc        11.096    11.739    12.604                        5, 863             17.291
fewa  sooree of Fund    6                                       8814.218   823.490g u7.119
Ce tion   I( exclutdin
_lMaserest  cbmanandpMoons tru_ti-n)
propo= d Il  project                                    9,4149   47,215   113,381    18,897             188,972
Othr Cautroctim                         360S          %1q.3n   5l14695   b.579   410.33               13583,118              7.170
tol oaote tion axpnditue    30 .56,760  561.940  5?3J60   J29.                                   2.0723050 7.470
Deb m,ce
amisatlo    (Amex 6)                     62,636        82,903  103,813    74,603   93,051               354,370            n15,669
bt.reet (tnnex 5)                       136,232       157,671   104,672  202,9142  218,364              763,649            225,835
blbntm  asinklr-fwnd requireenta          ,g5          12748    13.481   114.256    15.076               5.                 15.943
total Debt serrioe                 am            ?322   30X6   291801   326.1h9                  1.173.580             7,1h7
netur  on Usutty Inm
Cmtrel Ooa ew"t 38,8O                                  28,800    28,600    28,800    28,8a0             115,200             28,800
hroveettal Oovewnnt                     Jj 7          J_IM      _6S7       16.975   16,975               6T90              _975
Tow  Retu  on Eqity IlYtu"Xm. S.775               b5.L25    bS.775    45.77S    4$.775             1833100             45775
,7Ior_- er (Docer} in LIst worldn
C"h                                     (15,051)          5h4     4,592     5,162     3,633              13,928              4,487
Aoocente reeivable                      11,580        19,000    13,200    12,520    13,580              SS,300             12,940
Accruals, 4 dvanoes a   clearing
accounts                              (22,040)      (15,000)  (10,000)   5,000     5,000             (15,00D)              5,000
lnvetoriem                                1,330        10,000    10,00D    10,0DO    10,000              40,000             10,000
Pegables en  eoorals           o     , 0J                  _   (10.000)  (10.000)  (10.000)            4Jo0)               (15.000)
Tot   Irnere_se or (D,czerae) in
not Vorti  Capitta               S  779           41    7.792    22.682    22.213                62.228             17.14?7
Tota  plication of 67j    6       6        86538   917.473   884.21- 823.909               3.9098               778,119
ash bel_ce be,iAing At fr                         39,100        21,049   24,590    29,182    3h ,314                                 37,977
jb inoeos, or (decreas) UsIg   Yer               (15,051)          541.   h1,52    5,162      3,633                                  14,187
ash balmoe  end or year                           24,049        2h,590   29,182   314,31A4    37,977                                 O'Wj
las  am,al debt sorv ie _-"etad by
intrnal ceh gmwrattoo                           l.            1.3       1.3      1.6       1.6                                    1.6
une 3, 1970



WEST PAKISTAN
WATER AND PGWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHCRITY
POWER WING
POWER PROJECT
Schedule of Arranged Foreign Loans
.(Rupee Thousand)
Source of Loan                    Project to be Financed                          Amount         Interest
(PRs thousand)      Rate
Arranged Foreign Loans
Italian suppliers' credit           System additions renewals and replacements               6,ooo          6%
Italian credit                      Consulting services - Quetta power station               1,200          6
Italian credit                      Consulting services - Kala Shah Kaku
transmission lines                                     1,349          6
Total                                                                          852i9
Czechoslovakian credit              Gudu  power station                                    109,671          2½
Czechoslovakian credit             Hangla, 5th and 6th units (turbines,
generators and cables)                                16 695          2½
Total                                                                       126,366
Yugoslovian credit                  Rangpur unit - tubewell electrification                 28,363           3
UK suppliergl eredlt                Railway electrification                                 10,314 
German capital aid                  Grid stations                                           22,099           3
German capital aid                 Mangla 5th and 6th units switchgear                       2,h39           3
Total                                                                         24,538
Grand Total                                                                 198,130






PAKISTAN                          CHART 1
WAPDA POWER PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION SUBSTATION CAPACITY
AND SYSTEM DEMAND 1963-1975
4000                   .-
PROJECT
3500  _    -   -                                   _
3000_                               _ __ _ __ ___       _
/
u~~~~~~~~~
<r 2500                                  _      .,
0u
< - 2000                                                             - 42 (R)
0            ~~~~SUBSTATION TRANSFORME
1 500
500__                                         _
0-
'63  164  165  '66  '67  '68  '69  '70  '71  '72  '73  '74  '75
-0   -  ACTUAL  -~~                  PROJECTED
I BRD - 4821 (R)






U       S       S      R
5               ,-    9            Q z    C H I N A
-               %           RAWALPINeDI    %t   1AG
/                        K UR RAM GACl~I2    DAUD
I~~~~~~~CAM BARG                                               CHA   R                         ;ANIU
k  /                                                                           ,
N
15Mw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
QUETTA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1   \                    r         /   g            5>       ZBAHAWAL NAGAR~~~~~~~~~~~~INGA
_ . / M~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~A S                                                      H  M  I  R      
KALAT 0                       S\ts                 |         Z       /    BAHAWALPURXA/
§t*<. -.     KURRAMGA                  DAU  KHE         RAUJA
5z  F,/d  o   ^-RHASMA BA         R KHN 
>           ~~~JACOBABAD \    ,         \-     
+> / >/ ~~~~~~~,GwsFe.~                                     /              M AI N       P        WERS TAT IO NS
11    >              6 LARKANA          RI    j                                     PRINCIPAL TRANSM^ISSION LINES
1,1    4THARSSHAH  ( ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ A                                          HH 
22/ +(   (    XP  500 KV TRANSMISSION LINES  -  --
+1  y  \  11  \ \  /            <  _                        22B KV TR~~~~~~      ~~~ANSISO   LIE  HPAT 
Z54 MW                                     I    N b)     !A/132 KV TRANSMISSION
66 KV          COAL MINEWABSHA                 )LINES
Y ~~~~~~~~~A WA 1SHA FI                                                      HYDROELECTRIC STATIONS        *              U1
MAST U          LNG h          3                                      THERMAL STATIONS                 *
)~~     ~~~ /          Fi/d/  Y     .                     _  )                NUCLEAR POWER STATIO,U           
5o,Ser   S/"g  ~}     9.' *..OMlIRPUR KHASWL
_7JCe5fie   AHYDERABAD  IA
.-,>    .   .   2S   KORANGI/'    * *+ --. OEDIGRI                                  STCOAL FIELD  PKSA
1M   AI25MW,Xc'$¢7IA                                                        MAIN \  INTERNATI PAL BOUNDART  S
\U          _  _   _  _, 0    _ . _ . _ '                                          M I L5E55             200  0
NAWABSHAH                LINES~~~~~~~~~~~~M E
MARCH 1970                                                                                                                                                IBRD-2911



