CONFORMATION COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 213 PAK
Project Agreement
(WAPDA Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
WEST PAKISTAN WATER AND POWER
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DATED AUGUST 14, 1970


﻿CONFORMATION COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 213 PAK
Project Agreement
(WAPDA Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ATD
WEST PAKISTAN WATER AND POWER
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DATED AUGUST 14, 1970


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        August 14, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and WEST
PAKISTAN WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (hereinafter
called WAPDA).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
the _slamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association (such agreement hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit
Agreement), the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million dollars
($23,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that WAPDA agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to WAPDA on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS WAPDA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Developmeii,. Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WAPDA shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿4
conformity with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
Section 2.02. WAPDA shall apply the proceeds of the Credit relent to it
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement
exclusively to financing the cost of goods and services required to carry out the
Project.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist WAPDA in the review of designs and
specifications for the Project, the adjudication of bids under the Project and the
supervision of the construction of the works included in the Project, WAPDA shall
employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   WAPDA   shall employ consultants or make other arrangements in
consultation with the Association for studies in the fields of management,
accounting, engineering and training and for reviewing the recommendations
resulting from such studies and the means of implementing such recommendations;
the services of such consultants may be financed in part out of the proceeds of
the Credit provided that such consultants are employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the
goods and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to WAPDA by the
Borrower shall be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans. and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with such other
procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
or as shall be agreed between the Association and WAPDA, and (ii) contracts for
the procurement of all goods and services to be financed out of such proceeds
of the Credit shall (except as otherwise provided in such Schedule) be subject
to the prior approval of the Association.
(b)   WAPDA undertakes to insure or make adequate provision for insurance
of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it by the Borrower against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, WAPDA shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.05: (a) WAPDA shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon
their preparation, the reports, plans, studies, specifications, contract documents,
work and procurement schedules for, or in connection with, the Project, and any
material modifications or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   WAPDA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (i) shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of WAPDA
Section 3.01. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, WAPDA
shall at all times take all steps necessary to: (i) maintain its existence and right
to carry on operations and (ii) acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the operation of its power
wing.
(b)   WAPDA shall at all times conduct its operations under competent and
experienced management, in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices.
(c)   WAPDA shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and repair its power
facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in accordance with sound engineering
and management practices.
(d)   WAPDA shall, in respect of its power wing, take out insurance with
responsible insurers, or make adequate provision for insurance, against such risks
and in such amounts as are consistent with sound public utility practices.
(e)   Except in the normal course of business, WAPDA shall not, without
the prior approval of the Association, sell, transfer, distribute or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient operations
of its power wing.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. WAPDA shall develop and implement, for the power wing of
WAPDA, an effective accounting system acceptable to the Association and especially
adapted to public utility accounting, which would supply to WAPDA's management
all information necessary for effective planning of WAPDA's operations, services
and future development.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(i)        WAPDA shall not reduce its overall average price per kilowatt
hour before June 30, 1972; and
(ii)       WAPDA shall take such measures as shall be required to enable
WAPDA's power wing, in the fiscal year starting July 1, 1972
and in each fiscal year thereafter, to maintain a reasonable rate
of return on net fixed assets in operation which shall not be
less than 8%.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)        the annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
operating income for the year in question to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets in operation of WAPDA's power
wing at the beginning and at the end of each year;
(ii)       the term "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross book value of such assets less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, as revalued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Association; and
(iii)      the term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross operating revenues accruing from WAPDA's power services;
and
(B)   operating and administrative expenses of WAPDA's power wing
including adequate maintenance and depreciation, such
depreciation to be at an average rate of not less than 3-1/2%


﻿*                                 7
of gross plant in service until the accounting system referred
to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall have been established,
and taxes (if any) but excluding any return on the Borrower's
equity investments in WAPDA, interest and other charges on
debt.
Section 4.03. WAPDA shall maintain records adequate to reflect its operations
and  financial condition in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices.
Section 4.04. WAPDA shall: (i) have the accounts and financial statements
of its power wing (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year or by such other
date as shall be agreed to by the Association, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of WAPDA's power wing and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Association and WAPDA shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and WAPDA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of WAPDA and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. WAPDA shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the management, operations
and financial condition of WAPDA.
Section 5.03. The Association and WAPDA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service


﻿8
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination; Cancellation
and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
Development Credit Agreement terminates pursuant to Section 6.03 thereof, the
Association shall promptly notify WAPDA of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
WAPDA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(a)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms; or
(b)   a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿*                               9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For WAPDA:
West Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority
WAPDA House
Lahore
Pakistan
Cable address:
WAPDA
Lahore
Section 7.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 7.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of WAPDA may be taken or executed by such person or persons as WAPDA shall
designate in writing.
Section 7.04. WAPDA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of WAPDA, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by WAPDA pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿10
Section 7.05. Any modification or amplification of the provisions of this
Agreement which substantially increases the obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement may only be agreed to
by WAPDA with the consent of the Borrower.
Section 7.06. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Aldewereld
Vice President
WEST PAKISTAN WATER AND POWER
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By /s/ A. R. Bashir
Authorized Representative


﻿0                                   11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    With respect to goods and services (other than consultant's services) in
Categories I, II and III of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred
to in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, items to be procured
shall be grouped together whenever practicable in amounts sufficient to attract
international competitive bidding. Whenever the estimated cost of such items or
groups of items equals or exceeds the equivalent of $10,000, they shall be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding pursuant to Section 2.04 (a) of
this Agreement.
2.    With respect to all contracts or letters of intent for the purchase of
machinery, equipment, vehicles and materials included in Categories I, II and III
of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and involving expenditures expected
to equal or exceed the equivalent of $50,000, the following procedures shall be
followed:
(a)   Invitations to bid, specifications, the proposed terms and conditions
of contracts, and all other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed, will be
submitted to the Association for review and approval, which approval
shall be obtained prior to the issuance of invitations to bid.
(b)   After bids have been received and analyzed, the analyses of bids and
the recommendations thereon of the consultants and of WAPDA, as
well as WAPDA's proposals for awards, will be furnished to the
Association for review and approval, which approval shall be obtained
prior to making any award of contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(c)   For the purpose of awarding contracts for the purchase of equipment
included in Category II of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit,
bid prices shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:
(i)         Any   bid submitted by a manufacturer, established in the
territories  of  the  Borrower, in    respect  of  equipment
manufactured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably
determined by the Association) in the territories of the Borrower
shall be called a Local Bid; and any other bid shall be deemed
to be a Foreign Bid.


﻿12
(ii)        The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-factory price
of the equipment plus inland freight to the place of installation.
(iii)       The bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of:
(A)   an  amount representing the c.i.f. (Karachi) price of the
equipment plus inland freight to the place of installation; and
(B)   the amount of any taxes imposed in connection with the
importation of such equipment into the territories of the
Borrower generally applicable to such equipment if imported
into the territories of the Borrower by non-exempt importers,
or 15% of the c.i.f. price specified in (A) above, whichever is
less.
(d)   If the final contract or letter of intent is to differ substantially from
the terms and conditions contained in the respective documents
approved by the Association under paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the
text of the proposed changes will be submitted to the Association
for review and approval prior to the execution of such contract or
issuance of such letter of intent.
(e)   Two conformed copies of any letter of intent issued and of any
contract executed under this paragraph 2 shall be sent to the
Association promptly upon their issuance or execution.
3.    With respect to all contracts or letters of intent for the purchase of
machinery, equipment, vehicles or materials included in such Categories I, II and
III and involving expenditures expected to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more,
but less than the equivalent of $50,000, copies of the invitations to bid, bid analyses
and evaluations, as well as any other bid documents or relevant information
requested by the Association, and two conformed copies of any such contract
or letter of intent, shall be sent to the Association promptly after the execution
of any such contract or issuance of any such letter of intent and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract or letter of intent.
4.    With respect to items or groups of items included in Categories I, II and
III of such allocation of the proceeds of the Credit, the value of which is less
than the equivalent of $10,000, international competitive bidding may be dispensed
with, provided that the Borrower shall send to the Association for its approval
details of the proposed procurement procedure as well as periodic lists of items
so purchased indicating the price of such goods and the suppliers thereof.


