CONFORMATION COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 213 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(WAPDA Power Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 14, 1970


﻿CONFORMATION COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 213 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(WAPDA Power Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 14, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 1970, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the cost of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the West Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the West Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make a credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the West Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The Borrower and the Association accept all the provisions
of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "WAPDA" means the West Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority established under the West Pakistan Water and Power Development
Authority Act, 1958 (West Pakistan Act XXXI of 1958), and includes any agency
or entity of the Borrower or of any political subdivision of the Borrower which
shall perform in whole or in part the services performed at the date of this
Agreement by the power wing of such Authority; and
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and WAPDA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million dollars
($23,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, the Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
as shall be required to meet payments to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on
account of payments: (i) under any of the Categories I and III of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower, or
(ii) for taxes imposed by the Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on,


﻿0                                 5
or in connection with the importation or supply of, any of the goods or services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 1   and    August 1   commencing    August 1, 1980    and   ending
February 1, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement to
expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause WAPDA to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices, and shall make available, promptly as needed,
all funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limiting or restricting the Borrower's obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to WAPDA at a rate of interest of four per cent (4%) per annum on the principal
amount so relent and outstanding from time to time, such principal amount to
be repaid to the Borrower over a period of twenty-five years from the date of
this Agreement, including therein a period of grace of five years.
(c)   The Borrower shall make available or cause to be made available to
WAPDA, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services and other resources
required to enable WAPDA to carry out such parts of its secondary transmission
program for the fiscal years 1970/71 to 1974/75 as are not included in the Project,
but are related thereto.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and cause all its agencies and political
subdivisions to take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable
WAPDA to perform all of its obligations under the Project Agreement and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such
performance.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to: (i) the administration,
operations and financial condition of WAPDA and (ii) financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from    time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance of the service
thereof.


﻿7
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform     the Association of (i) any
proposed material changes in the structure, organization, powers or responsibilities
of WAPDA and (ii) of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the
service thereof, the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement or the performance by WAPDA of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.03. Without limiting or restricting the obligations of the Borrower
under Section 4.01 (d) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take or cause to
be taken, promptly as needed, all measures required on its part or on the part
of any of its political subdivisions in order to enable WAPDA to carry out its
obligations under Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement, and in particular, to make
such adjustments in its tariffs as may be necessary to meet the requirements of
such Section.
Section 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories, and free from all restrictions imposed
under any such laws.
Section 4.05. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in the Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.


﻿8
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any material change in the structure, organization, powers or
responsibilities of WAPDA in respect of the power wing shall have
been made, so as to have an adverse effect on the Project or on the
operation of the power wing of WAPDA; and
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
of WAPDA under the Project Agreement, and such event shall have
continued for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and to WAPDA.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the engineering consultants referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of the
Project Agreement have been engaged under contracts or letters of
intent approved by the Association;
(b)   all powers of the Province of West Pakistan under the West Pakistan
Water and Power Development Authority Act, 1958 (West Pakistan
Act XXXI of 1958) in respect of the power wing have been transferred
to the Borrower, or other arrangements acceptable to the Association
have been made for the exercise of these powers; and
(c)  the Project Agreement has been executed and delivered, and such
execution and delivery on behalf of WAPDA have been duly authorized
and ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, WAPDA and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of WAPDA
in accordance with its terms.


﻿*                                9
Section 6.03. The date November 16, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1974, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The provisions of Sections 4.03 and 5.02 of this Agreement
shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 7.03. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division, is designated for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Economic
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. R. Bashir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿SCHEDULE I
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    1.    The provision of about 900 megavolt-amperes of transformer capacity
and of related civil works and switching and voltage control equipment, to be
installed at about 100 substation locations in WAPDA's electric power transmission
and distribution systems.
2.    The addition of a second circuit to the 132 kilovolt transmission line
from Dharki to Rohri.
3.    The   rehabiiitation  of about 300   megavolt-amperes of existing
substation transformers, including the provision of related repair parts, spare parts,
tools, materials and equipment (including vehicles).
B.    1.    The engineering and supervision of the construction of the works
included in Part A of the Project, and the provision of assistance to WAPDA related
to studies in the fields of management and operations.
2.    The provision of training services for the repair and maintenance of
substation and distribution transformers.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                                  in Dollar Equivalent
I.         Transmission and substation
equipment, materials and
installation, excluding
low-voltage switchgear                           17,700,000
II.        Low-voltage switchgear                             1,600,000
III.        Services of consultants                           1,500,000
IV.        Unallocated                                       2,200,000
TOTAL               23,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.   If the estimate of the expenditures under any of the Categories I through
III shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and no longer
required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category IV.
2.    If the estimate of the expenditures under any of the Categories I through
III shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Category
IV, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of expenditures under any of the other
Categories.


