FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 302a-PE
PERU
APPRAISAL OF A
SIXTH ROAD PROJECT
April 11, 1974
Latin America and the Caribbean
Projects Department
This report was prepared for offical use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuacy or completness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Units                   =  Sol de Oro (S/.)
Uq$1                             =  S/. 38.7
U,%l million                     =  S/. 38,700,000
S/. I million                    =  US$25.840
Fiscal Year
Biennial Periods January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures
Metric                              British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                      =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq. km)    =  0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)             =  0.98 long ton (lg ton)
= 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT            -   Average Daily Traffic
ALALC         -   Latin America Free Trade Association
ECLA          -   Economic Commission for Latin America
ER            -   Economic Return
FYB           -   First Year Benefits
GDLT          -   General Directorate of Land Transport
GNP           -   Gross National Product
INP           -   National Planning Institute
MTrC          -   Ministry of Transport and Communications
ORDEZA         -   Organismo Regional para el Desarrollo de la Zona
Afectada
ORETT          -   Transport Tariffs Regulatory Cormmission
PC             -   Peruvian Corporation
SEM            -   Mechanical Equipment Service
SPO           -   Sectoral Planning Office
UNDP           -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID          -   United States Agency for International Development



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH ROAD PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........................    i-ii
1.  INTRODUCTION ............................................ 
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR        ..............................  3
A.   The Country and Its Economy ..................         3
B.   The Transport System ....... . . . . . . .    .......... .  4
C.   Transport Policy and Coorlination ..............       6
3.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR . .................. ........... .     8
A.   The Highway Network  ........... .  ....... ......     8
B.   Road  Transport   ......  ........................  ......  8
C.   Highway Planning and Financing    ........             9
D.   Highway Administration .......................        10
E.   Highway Engineering .10 .......................       lO
F.  Highway Construction .........     ................    ll
G.  Highway Maintenance ..*.......................         12
ts.  THE PROJECT .......................................  ... *  13
A.   General Description ..........................        13
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing.                         16
C.   Disbursements   ....................... ........      18
Li.  Execution   ........**    ..    ...*.O.18
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....      .....                        19
A.  General ... ......        ..............* ...19
B.   Construction and Improvement of the
Huanuco-Aguaytia Road                .                20
C.   Improvement of Feeder Roads             .             22
D. Road Maintenance Program   .            .23
E.   Pre-Investment Study                                  23
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMEDNDATION .............         24
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. A. van Dijck (Engineer)
and A. Soto (economist) and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd.)
TABLES
1.   Composition of Highway Network
2.   Vehicle Registration
3.   Motor Fuel Consumption
4.   Highway Expenditures and Road User Contributions
5.   Design Standards for the Huanuco-Aguaytia Road
6.   Traffic Flows on the Huanuco-Aguaytia Road
7.   Construction Cost Huanuco- Aguaytia Road
8.   Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs
9.   Economic Evaluation Results - Huanuco-Aguaytia Road
10.   Economic Data - Huanuco-Aguaytia Road, Total Phases I and II
ANNEX
1.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP
Sixth Road Project - IBRD 10610



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH ROAD PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Andes, ranking among the world's highest mountain ranges,
divide Peru into three markedly different physical regions. The economic
development of the country has been influenced considerably by this division
and by the existence of rich mineral deposits in the Andes. With the excep-
tion of mining, the major part of the economic activity is centered along the
narrow coastal region and, in particular, around the Lima-Callao metropolitarn
area. Transport facilities reflect the existing economic and demographic dis-
tribution. The Pan-American Highway, running the entire length of the country
near the coast, provides the main transport system. Major secondary roads and
two railway lines link the most important coastal cities and the main ports
with large towns and mining centers in the Andes.
ii.       The road network comprises about 50,000 km of roads, of which only
some 5,000 km are paved; although road transport is the prime traffic mode,
the system is in a generally rudimentary condition, resulting in high trans-
port costs, very long travel times, and considerable damage and spoilage of
cargo. There are 35 ports, 11 of which handle most of Peru's international
trade. Water transport is important, not only along the coast, but also for
the sparsely populated upper Amazon river plains, where 10,000 km of navigable
rivers constitute practically the only means of transportation. Peru has
2,200 hm of railways divided into several separate systems; the main lines,
the Central and Southern Railways, have recently been purchased by the
Government. At present, the Government owns about two-thirds of the total
railway length in the country. For a country with the size and rugged
topography of Peru, air transport is essential. In spite of the efforts made
during recent years to improve existing facilities and services to meet the
rapidly increasing demand, there is still need for further improvement in
this field.
iii.      The Peruvian Government has prepared a 1971-1975 Investment Plan,
which aims, inter alia, at increasing production in the agricultural, fishing,
industrial and mining sectors, while stimulating economic development in regions
outside the Lima-Callao area. Practically all the major transport projects re-
quired to meet such objectives have been presented by the Government at the
June 1973 Consultative Group Meeting for Peru in Paris. A Bank transport
sector mission, which visited the country in September-October 1972, reviewed
the list of projects and found them generally adequate in the context of the
Plan's objectives, with some exceptions. Moreover, the mission helped to
determine the priorities for investment in the sector, priorities which
served as a basis for the preparation of the proposed project.
iv.       The main element of the proposed project consists of the construc-
tion and improvement of the 219-km Huanuco-Aguaytia section of the 800-km
Lima-Pucallpa road, linking the metropolitan area of Lima-Callao with Pucallpa
on the headwaters of the Amazon river system. Loan 425-PE of September 1965
was intended to help finance the entire construction of the 450-km La Oroya-
Aguaytia road, but, because of extensive cost overruns brought about by ex-
tremely difficult geological, soil and climatic conditions, it was necessary



- ii -
to divide the works into two phases and to apply Loan 425-PE to the financing
of the first phase only. The proposed project includes additional drainage,
slope and river erosion protection works in the most critical section left
for the second phase of the La Oroya-Aguaytia road, i.e., the Huanuco-Aguaytia
section, as well as paving of three-fourths of the section; the paving of the
most difficult mountainous stretches, totaling 55 km of highly unstable terrain,
will be deferred until further geotechnical studies included in the project
are carried out. Purchase of maintenance equipment for a maintenance program
of the La Oroya-Pucallpa road, as well as a double surface treatment for the
61-km section starting in Pucallpa, are also included in the project. The
feasibiLity study and the detailed engineering were carried out by the Italian
consultants SAUTI with financing provided under Loan 425-PE.
v.        The project additionally provides for the construction and improve-
ment of about 200 km of feeder roads which lead into the project road. Also
proposed is the financing of consulting services for construction supervision,
the preparation of feasibility studies and detailed engineering of transport
facilities which could form the basis of future projects, and a study of
marginal costs of road transport in Peru.
vi.       Execution of the project is expected to take about four years and
will be the responsibility of the General Directorate of Land Transport (GDLT)
in the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Consultants contracted under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank will carry out the studies, will
assist in the evaluation of bids and will supervise construction. Construc-
tion contracts for the main road will be awarded on a unit price basis after
international competitive bidding in accordance with normal Bank Group proce-
dures. Because of the nature, location and size of the feeder road program,
the Government will have the option of carrying out these works by force
account under the responsibility of the GDLT.
vii.      Major development benefits will accrue from the completion of the
Huanuco-Aguaytia road by improving the access to existing and potentially
rich forest, cattle and agricultural areas around Tingo Maria, Pucallpa and
Iquitos. Benefits from the construction elements of the project will include
savings in vehicle operating, maintenance and time costs. The economic
return from the proposed second phase works on the La Oroya-Aguaytia road
is 29%. The economic return of the total investment, counting costs and
benefits of the two phases together, is about 19%.
viii.     Total cost of the presently proposed project is estimated at
US$40.0 million, with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$21.1 mil-
lion (53%); the loan would finance US$26 million, thus including US$4.9 mil-
lion in local currency financing. The remainder of the local costs, amounting
to US$14.0 million, would be provided by the Government.
ix.       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$26
million for a term of 25 years, including a five-year grace period.



PERU
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH ROAD PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Peru has requested Bank assistance to help in the
financing of a road project comprising: (a) completion of construction and
improvement of the Huanuco-Aguaytia road (219 km); (b) construction and improve-
ment of feeder roads (200 km); (c) procurement of maintenance equipment and
resealing of a 61-km section between Neshuya and Pucallpa; and (d) consulting
services for construction supervision, geotechnic, road user charges, and
transport pre-investment studies. The total cost of the proposed project is
estimated at about US$40.0 million equivalent and the estimated foreign ex-
change component is US$21.1 million. In order to make a suitable contribution
to Peru's development program, the proposed loan would finance 65% of project
costs (US$26 million equivalent), thus implying local currency financing of
US$4.9 million; the balance in local costs, US$14.0 million equivalent, would
be provided by the Government.
1.02      This would be the sixth road project financed by the Bank in Peru,
including the road reconstruction project after the 1970 earthquake, and the
twelfth in the transport sector (there have been four port projects and two
railway projects). The Bank is also acting as Executing Agency for a UNDP-
financed technical assistance project in transport planning, and it has
launched, in collaboration with ECLA (Economic Commission for Latin America),
a transport information program known as the Sector File Project (paras 2.15
and 2.16).
1.03      Two of the loans have been made with road maintenance as their main
objective (127-PE and 300-PE) in 1955 and 1961, totaling US$5 million and
US$10 million, respectively. Although the first road maintenance project
ran into several difficulties, the maintenance effort was continued and ex-
panded under the second maintenance project with considerable success.
Moreover, the road reconstruction loan (706-PE) of 1970 (para. 1.06) also in-
cludes the provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTC) to improve maintenance and betterment operations in
the country.
1.04      The two highway improvement projects, both for the La Oroya-Pucallpa
road, have been plagued by difficulties from the outset. The first one (271-
PE; US$5.5 million) helped finance reconstruction and paving of about 166 km
of the Aguaytia-Pucallpa road, the most eastern section of the 800-km road
linking Lima on the coast with Pucallpa on the Ucayali river, in the upper
Amazon river system. Because of extremely difficult soils and climatic condi-
tions and lack of experience, the road was only 80% completed when loan funds
were exhausted in 1967; at that time, the Government was unable to raise funds
to continue the works. Extensive failures have occurred in the work done, and
up to US$10 million has been estimated for the cost of repaving and completing
the road. In May 1969, a ministerial committee was appointed to investigate
the history, work quality and condition of the project. On the strength of
the committee's report, the Government initiated legal proceedings against
the consultants (Brown and Root, US) and contractors (Zachry, US, and associated



-2 -
contractors in Peru), claiming that the failures were due to unsatisfactory
and inadequate construction methods. in February 1974, the matter was settled
out of court.
1.05      The second construction loan was for the La Oroya-Aguaytia section
of the Lima-Pucallpa road (Loan 425-PE; US$33 million). This loan, signed in
September 1965, was intended to finance 60% of the entire road construction
costs.  In November 1969, the Government and the Bank agreed, after large
cost overruns had occurred (para. 4,02), to reduce the scope of the project
in order to match the available funds; consequently, the remaining works were
postponed to a second phase (and a portion is, in fact, included in the pro-
posed project).  The scaled-down project was completed by January 1973, 18
months after the original Closing Date.
1.06       The most recent loan for a road proJect (Loan 706-PE; US$30 million)
was sioned in September 1970; it helps in financing the cost of consultants
for the feasibility studies and detailed engineering and 67% of the cost of re-
constructing the access roads to, and within, the Callejon de Iluaylas, the
area struck by a violent earthquake in May 1970. The project had only been
identified at the time the loan was made, and a preliminary study of alter-
native routes for the access road, a feasibility study, and detailed engineering
still had to be carried out. The time requiredl for this process was under-
estimated at the time of appraisal, and a number of difficulties have developed
with the consultants engaged to prepare the studies; the rate of disbursement
has, therefore, been much slower than forecast.  The project, however, is
expected to proceed satisfactorily, and completion of construction is now
scheduled for the end of 1976, 15 months after the original Closing Date.
1.07      Loans of US$2.5 million and US$6.575 million (57-PE and 208-PE)
were made in 1952 and 1958, respectively, for expansion of the port of Callao.
Although delays were encountered because of difficulties with contractors,
the projects produced good port facilities.  A sum of US$3.1 million (373-PE)
was lent in 1964 for the port of Paita and US.9.1 million (446-PE) was lent
in 1966 for the port of Pisco; both projects have been completed successfully.
Since January 1970, all ports have been managed by a Port Authority created
along the lines agreed with the Bank.
1.08      Two loans (190-PE and 334-PE), totaling US$28.55 million, were made
in 1958 and 1963 to the Peruvian Corporation (PC), a private company which
owned and operated the country's most imnportant railways. The first loan,
however, was canceled by mutual agreement before it became effective; the
second, for ITS$13.25 million, was successful both from physical and economic
points of view, but the PC ran into financial difficulties. As a result, the
Government has, since 1967, serviced the Bank loan in accordance with the
Guarantee Agreement.  In 1972, the Government purchased the PC's assets in
Peru and created a new agency to manage the state railways (para. 2.08).
1,09      A Bank transport sector mission visited Peru in September-October
1972 to update Information on the sector and to review the Governmentts strategy
for ttze deaeLo--  t rc- he :rans orr ;Lyste-m, as reFlected in the 1971-1975
InvestmrYiE   Pl an   & irt _'7c belennsial investment budgets and in the list of proj-
ects wwhich the             1-ea:n`.rt .ae prepared for the Consultative Group.  The
findliivgn- of tl:s iaissior.  contributed to the preparation of the proposed
eeto



-3-
1.10      The proposed project will continue the works initiated with the help
of Loan 425-PE. It will contribute to the establishment of the first all-
weather link between the coast at Lima with the Sierra and the headwaters of
the Amazon river. Also, some feeder roads leading into fertile valleys in
the zone of influence of the main road will be improved under the project.
Moreover, the consulting services included in the project will provide the
preinvestment studies necessary for additional and important highway invest-
ments in the Sierra and the jungle areas.
1.11      The appraisal of the project was based on economic and technical
studies prepared by consultants SAUTI (Italy); on information provided by
the Government; and on the findings of the 1972 transport sector mission and
of an appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. A. van Dijck (engineer) and A. Soto
(economist), which visited Peru in March and May 1973. The report has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.
2. TIE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Country and its Economy
2
2.01      Peru, with an area of 1.3 million km 2 , is the fourth largest country
in Latin America. Its population has been growing at about 3% per annum over
the last 10 years, reaching 14.1 million in 1972. The Andes, which closely
parallel the Pacific coastline of Peru over its entire length, divide the
country into a narrow coastal region (Costa), the mountains (Sierra) and the
eastern plains (Selva). The Costa, most of which is desert or arid wasteland,
has more than two-fifths of the country's population and six of the ten larg-
est urban centers, including Lima, the country's capital, with a metropolitan
population of 3.3 million. Almost one-half of the population lives on the
inhospitable high Sierra, while the remaining 10% inhabits the vast eastern
tropical jungles.
2.02      The Gross National Product (GNP) grew in real terms at 6.4% yearly
during 1961-1966. Between 1967 and 1969, the growth dropped considerably,
coming to a complete standstill in 1968; with the change of government in
October 1968, however, the economic situation recovered and the growth in
GNP reached 6.5% yearly during 1970-1972. Although GNP per capita was US$480
in 1971, it is poorly distributed, with a very low per capita income for the
major part of the large rural population. The Government has been promoting
a change in this situation, particularly through an active program of agrarian
reform, wlhich is being assisted by a recently signed US$25 million Bank loan
for agricultural credit.
2.03      Significant economic development has taken place along the Costa
and at some isolated mining enclaves in the Sierra, but limited development
has occurred elsewhere. The country's rugged topography and difficult climate
make transport very difficult and costly, thereby limiting the effect which
development at one place has had upon the rest of the country. Inadequate
transportation facilities and high transport costs have long been recognized
as two of the main obstacles to development in Peru.



-.4-
B.   The Transport System
(i) General
2.04      The backbone of the Peruvian road network is the Pan-American
Highway, an all-weather asphalt road 2,750 km long, located between the Andes
and the coast and running the entire length of the country (see Map). Major
secondary roads link several of the most important coastal urban centers with
large towns in the Sierra. A few roads leading into the Selva have been under
construction for several years, most of them with the assistance of foreign
financing agencies. However, with the exception of the Lima-La Oroya-Aguaytia
road, there is still not even a semi-permanent road connecting the Costa, the
Sierra and the Selva.
2.05      There are 35 ports, 11 of which handle most of Peru's international
trade. There are also 2,200 km of railways divided into several separate
networks with different gauges and characteristics. The main networks, the
Central and the Southern, link important towns and mining centers in the
Sierra with ports on the Pacific coast. Civil aviation plays an important
role because of the size and topographic conditions of Peru, and there are
some 48 airports and two domestic air carriers: the privately owned FAUCETT
and the recently created Government airline, AEROPERU. The transport sector
includes a considerable length of waterways, and coastal shipping is important
among a number of the country's Pacific ports. About 10,000 km of navigable
rivers exist in the upper Amazon river basin, and lake transport takes place
between Peru and Bolivia over Lake Titicaca.
2.06      In 1970, the transport system carried a total of about 9.8 billion
ton-km and 28 billion passenger-km.  Of the ton-km, road transport carried
about 55%, coastal shipping 33%, railways 8%, river transport 4% and lake
and air transport about 0.4%. In passenger traffic, road transport is by
far the most important mode with 98% of the total, while air transport and
railways shared the remaining 2% in almost equal amounts.
(ii) Highways
2.07      The highway system and its administration are described in Chapter 3.
(iii) Railways
2.08      Several separate private railways have been built from the Costa to
the Sierra since the 19th century as part of the development of rich mineral
ore deposits in the Andes. Until 1972, the Government owned only four small
lines, adding up to less than one-fifth of the total length. In 1972, the
Government purchased from the Peruvian Corporation the Central and Southern
Railways, the most important lines in Peru, with a total length of 1,200 km.
It also created a new agency, Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles (ENAFER) to
manage the state railways. The Central Railway links the mineral producing
area of Huancayo and La Oroya with the port of Callao.  It is the highest
standard gauge railway in the world (up to 4,829 m) and one of the most
difficult to operate.  lhe Southern Railway connects the port of Mollendo



-5-
with Puno and Cuzco on the Sierra and, over Lake Titicaca, with the Bolivian
ports of Chaguaya and Guaqui, whence a railway line continues to La Paz.
The Southern Railway moves mainly Bolivian mineral export and general import
traffic and provides for the exchange of Peruvian products between the Sierra
and the Costa. There are, besides, about 500 Ian of private lines used
primarily for shipping minerals. Freight traffic during the last two decades
reached a maximum of 4.3 million tons in 1965 and has been steadily decreasing
in recent years; in 1971, it totaled about 3.1 million tons. Passenger
traffic, which decreased rapidly after 1964, has become stable in recent
years at around 2.5 million passengers per year.
(iv) Ports and Waterways
2.09      Some 97.6% of the tonnage of Peru's imports and 99.8% of exports
are transported by sea. A further 1.5% of imports and a small quantity of
exports are transported by river. Ports are therefore a crucial link in
Peru's international trade, and they constitute, in general, the most efficient
and developed of the country's transport modes. Callao, Chimbote, Salaverry,
Pisco and Matarani are the main deep water public sea ports (the private iron
ore port of San Nicolas moves the largest tonnage), while Iquitos and Pucallpa
are the main river ports, giving access to the Amazon system. The total
traffic through Peruvian ports increased from 15 to 23 million tons between
1961 and 1971, mostly due to increased exports of minerals (principally iron
ore) and fish meal, and increased coastal traffic of petroleum products.
2.10      The distance by ship along the Peruvian coast is about 1,700 km.
Goods are moved fairly long distances, averaging over 1,000 km. Petroleum and
iron ore account for some 97% of the total tonnages of coastal shipping; the
latter is moved from San Nicolas to Chimbote, while crude oil and petroleum
products are shipped from Talara to the other ports. Domestic river traffic
is still very small; 224,000 tons of dry cargo and 21,000 tons of petroleum
products were transported by river during 1971. Lake transport originated
about 30 million ton-km in 1970, mainly for the import-export trade of Bolivia,
rdpresented by minerals outbound and capital goods and general cargo inbound.
2.11      Three feasibility studies have recently been completed for port
projects in Peru: the Amazon River Ports Study, financed under Bank Loan
446-PE, which recommends investments in the ports of Iquitos, Yurimaguas and
Pucallpa; and feasibility studies for the improvement of the port of Chimbote
and for the construction of a new deep water port at Norte Chico to replace
three existing lighterage ports (Chancay, Huacho and Supe). These studies
might form the basis for a Bank-financed port improvement project.
(v) Air Transport
2.12      Aviation infrastructure .- .udes one international airport serving
the Lima-Callao area, sever, mor, az;lc to handle twin-jet aircraft, and about
40 additional ones used by smaller commercial carriers. Six airports had
more than 50,000 passenger movemnents in 1971; Lima's international airport,
by far the most important, hzcc a total of 1.3 million passenger movements
(about two-tlhirds of the country's total).  Domestic air passenger service



- 6 -
grew at a high annual rate of 9.6% during 1960-1971, reaching about.600,000
passengers in 1971. Pass-km have increased even faster, at a rate of 10.3%
annually in the same period, anounting to 387 million pass-km in 1971. Air
cargo, on the other hand, declined by 3.4% during 1960-1971, probably as a
result of road transport competition; in 1971, 15,500 tons of domestic cargo
were moved by air transport.
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination
2.13      Before the present Government came to power in 1968, development of
the transport sector, particularly construction of highways in the Sierra and
Selva, had top priority, after a long per~iod of little activity. Since then,
Government has increased public investment considerably, while raising the
level of investment in the sector only moderately, so that the share of the
transport sector in total public investment decreased sharply from more than
30% during 1960-1967 to 16% in the 1971-1975 Five-Year investment Plan.
2.;4      Nevertheless, the Government is aware of the early stage of devel-
opmLent of the transport sector, particularly the road sector, and has included
a number of transport projects in the 1971-1975 Investment Plan. The policy
contained in this Plan aims, inter alia, at increasing prodtuction in the
agricultural, fishing, industrial and mining sectors, while stimulating eco-
nomic development in regions outside the Lima-Callao area. The Plan states
the need for developing a transport system able to support such objectives.
The Bank transport sector mission, which visited Peru in 1972, reviewed the list
of projects in the Plan and found it generally adequate in the context of the
Plan's objectives. However, in view of the vast needs of the country and the
very limited resources available, the mission concluded that a stricter ad-
herence to high priority projects in the transport sector was required, as
well as a stronger attempt than previously to limit the extent and specifica-
tions of betterment and construction works in order to reduce costs and
optimize investment. The Bank transport sector mission also concluded that,
although, in the short term, the Plan's objectives could be met with rela-
tively minor investments in the transport sector, in the medium to long term,
substantially larger investment in transport may be required to support an
adequate rate of growth of the economy and to help solve the serious social
problems in rural areas, which also command top priority in the Government's
policy.
2.15      Transport administration and coordination improved after 1969 with
the creation of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), which
unified a number of Government agencies previously under the jurisdiction of
various ministries. Budget preparation, and formulation of transport policy
and planning within the new organization, are the responsibilities of the
Sectoral Planning Office (SPO) in the MTC. In conducting its work, the
SPO also follows the general guidelines and directives of the National Plan-
ning Institute (INP). The SPO has been active in preparing the 1973/74
biennial budget and in revising the 1971-1975 Investment Plan for the sector.
Nevertheless, there are several areas, particularly in project preparation,
selection of priorities for investment, and pricing policy, in which the SPO
has so far been ineffective. In view of the need to strengthen the SPO, the



Peruvian Government requested a program of technical assistance from the UNDP.
A 100 man-nonth technical assistance project for transport planning has thus
been launched, beginning in August 1973, with the Bank acting as Executing
Agency. The consultants financed under this program will help the SPO prepare
a five-year rolling development program for the sector.
2.16      A problem hampering the formulation of transport policy has been the
inadequacy of information. Therefore, at the request of the Government, the
Bank, in combination with the Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA),
has undertaken a program of technical assistance on data gathering and process-
ing to strengthen the planning capacity of the SPO. Unfortunately, repeated
changes of SPO's staff assigned to this program have delayed its execution.
The UNDP-financed technical assistance program, however, will strengthen and
continue such assistance and will integrate it with the planning process of
the SPO.
2.17      Modal competition exists along a few major transport corridors.
Although transport tariffs and changes do not reflect costs in all cases,
the extent of uneconomic transport of goods is, in the judgment of the Bank
transport sector mission, limited, because of the nature of the commodities
hauled and the characteristics of the competing modes. Rail and road
transport compete along the Central and Southern Railway routes, while
coastal shipping and road transport compete along the coastal corridor. Most
of the traffic presently carried by rail or water transport is bulk-type cargo,
such as mineral ore and petroleum products, for which road transport is hardly
competitive. The only exception pertains to the Southern Railway corridor,
where the freight moved by this railway is largely composed of general cargo
and agricultural products, making it much more vulnerable to highway competi-
tion. Civil aviation also competes, mainly with road transport, for passenger
traffic along the coastal corridor.
2.18      Where competition is possible between modes, there is no regulation
of traffic; users are free to select the transport mode best suited for
their needs. Entry into the road transport industry is also unrestricted.
Tariffs in all transport modes, on the other hand, are regulated (para. 2.19).
Importation of road motor vehicles is restricted in order to protect the
domestic vehicle assembling industry.
2.19      The Organismo Regulador de Tarifas de Transporte (ORETT) is the
agency within the MTC responsible for reviewing and proposing modifications
in the tariff structure of rail and water transport and the various taxes
and charges affecting road transport. ORETT has established a tariff ceiling
for the transport, by road, of various commodities over different types of
road surfaces and for the three main regions of the country; the tariffs also
differentiate by travel distance. Although enforcement of the tariffs is
relatively loose, the very few available data and a number of spot checks
have shown a fair amount of adherence to such tariffs, especially along the
coast, while fares on the Sierra and Selva tend to be higher than ORETT's
corresponding tariffs. Transport fares of up to 13 US4 per ton-km, which
are high, are being charged between the eastern Andes piedmont (known in
Peru as the Ceja de Selva) and Lima for the transport by road of agricultural
products.



- 8 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      The highway system consists of about 50,000 km of road, of which less
than 5,000 are paved, 10,000 are gravel and the remaining 35,000 are tracks and
improved earth roads (Table 1). The highway system is still in a very early
stage of development; not even the 2,750 km long Pan-American Highway along
the coast is a satisfactory road. The roads connecting the Costa with the
Sierra and the Selva (except Lima-La Oroya) are rudimentary, the roads in the
Sierra are at best passable, and the roads in the eastern piedmont and in the
Selva are still mainly dry-weather roads. Because of this large backlog, and
because of the high cost of road construction and of emergency and maintenance
operations, large resources would be required to raise the standards of the
road network to levels comparable with those of Latin American countries hav-
ing similar GNP. These financial requirements vastly exceed those available
domestically and those that might be expected from financing agencies in the
near future. Consequently, general upgrading of the system can be regarded
only as a long-term objective. The highway network was never sufficiently
upgraded, and it is probable that its present condition, in relation to the
traffic it carries, is worse than ever.
B.   Road Transport
3.02      There are no accurate current figures on the vehicle fleet in Peru.
The 1971 vehicle fleet has been estimated at around 320,000 vehicles, of
which 67% were automobiles, 28% trucks, pickups and vans, and 5% buses;
the annual rate of growth has been over 8% in the last decades (Table 2).
Of this fleet, 75% is registered in the Lima/Callao metropolitan area. In
1971, 15,700 vehicles were added to the fleet, of which 14,500 were assembled
in Peru and 1,200 were imported.
3.03      In spite of the high concentration of vehicles in the Lima area,
all indications are that the Costa is being served properly by a diversified
fleet of trucks and that there is no produce from the Sierra and Selva which
cannot be transported because of lack of trucks. What often happens, however,
is that goods cannot be transported due to damage and interruptions in the road
network. Nevertheless, this, as well as other road transport data, must be
studied in more detail in the future. The technical assistance for transport
planning (para. 2.15) and for data gathering and processing (para. 2.16)
should improve the level of information on road transport.
3.04      Gasoline and diesel fuel consumption increased by about 7% per
annum over the last decade (Table 3), while traffic levels also increased by
about 7% yearly in that period, the growth on paved roads being on average
about 8% and, on gravel and earth roads, about 5%. Traffic levels are gen-
erally low in Peru. Only 1,100 km of road carried more than 2,000 vehicles
per day in 1970, all of them situated near Lima, along the Pan-American High-
way, and on spurs to the main ports. The MTC estimated that, of the vehicle-
km on rural roads in Peru (6.4 million/day), 77% are on the Pan-American High-
wa'.v and the port roads, and 23% on the remainder of the network, of which about



-9-
half are on the Lima-Oroya-Pucallpa road and on the Central Highway through
Tarma and San Ramon.
C.   Highway Planning and Financing
3.05      The highway investment program is prepared by the General Directorate
of Land Transport (GDLT) in the MTC, and reviewed and coordinated with those
of other subsectors by the SPO. Biennial budget programs are thereafter sub-
mitted for approval to the INP and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Rightly
convinced of the need to reach decisions and to select investment priorities on
the basis of adequate technical and economic studies, the GDLT has strengthened
its department of studies by increasing its staff, and has included in its in-
vestment program an important amount for studies. Technical assistance is,
however, still required to familiarize both the GDLT and the SPO staff with
modern evaluation techniques and to review present procedures and responsibil-
ities in these offices. The UNDP-financed technical assistance program (para.
2.15) should help fill this need.
3.06      Highway expenditures are financed mainly from tax revenues.
Road user-related revenues have exceeded highway expenditures since 1968
(Table 4). Traditionally, road maintenance investment has been unduly low
in Peru; however, even allowing for an adequate increase in road maintenance
and for the fact that some of the revenue from road users is utilized for
urban transport purposes, the remainder would still cover the total of highway
maintenance and administration expenditure for the rural network.
3.07      Since 1968; however, revenues from road users have not been earmarked
for roads, and the MTC has had some difficulty in finding funds for adequate
road maintenance and for the relatively modest highway investment program of
recent years. Although the level of road-user charges is considered acceptable
from the point of view of promoting efficient use of transport facilities,
further consideration may be given to increasing these charges, taking into
account the country's fiscal problems. However, in order to minimize the
possible distorting effects of higher taxes, to correct the presently inade-
quate structure of road user charges (para. 3.08), and to avoid discouraging
the development of the generally poor rural areas, first priority should be
given to establishing a diesel tax, and to raising existing road user charges
in the Lima-Callao metropolitan area, where private vehicles used for urban
transport are not covering the social costs which they generate.
3.08      Road-user charges originate mainly in gasoline taxes (about 70% of
the total) and import duties (15%); excise taxes, road use (rodaje), tolls and
a few other taxes make up the remaining 15% (Table 4). The price is uniform
for any given type of gasoline for the Costa and the Sierra, but varies for
the Selva region, depending on location. Taxes on gasoline vary from a high
of about 17 USi per gallon for high octane gasoline on the Costa to an ex-
tremely low level of less than 1 USJ per gallon for medium and low-octane
gasoline in some places on the Sierra and most of the Selva. There is an
element of progressive taxation in this tax structure, since the region with
the highest income--and also the largest vehicle densities and traffic volumes
(paras. 3.02 and 3.04) -is the most heavily taxed. Neither diesel oil nor
lubricants are taxed in Peru; nevertheless, for all types of fuel, there is



- 10 -
an element of hidden taxation in the retention amount included in the retail
price, which seems to be more important in the case of diesel. The retention
benefits the Government petroleum agency PETROPERU.  Although no adequate
studies are available, all indications are that truckers are not paying their
share of road use; at the same time, they are contributing, partly through
overloading (para. 3.18), to the rapid deterioration of the road network.
Consequently, the Government will carry out a study, partly financed under
the proposed project, to establish the basis for formulating a sound pricing
policy. During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that such a study
will be carried out, that the Bank will be offered an opportunity to comment
on the terms of :-eference and the results of the study, and that the results
of the study will be used as an input for revising road-user charges.
D.   Highway Administration
3.09      Planning, construction and maintenance of the national road network
is the responsibility of the GDLT in the MTC; GDLT is also responsible for
the State Railways. Following a reorganization in January 1973, the GDLT is
divided into six directorates: (a) studies and designs; (b) construction;
(c) traffic (road maintenance, road inventory, vehicle road inventory and
road safety); (d) special studies (soils, geology, photogrammetry, traffic
counts, etc.); (e) operations (railways, passenger and freight transport); and
(f) urban transport. In accordance with decentralization policies of the
Government, seven regions were established in the new organization, each
consisting of several provinces. Each regional engineer is responsible for
all MTC's operations in his region, including road maintenance and road
construction. He reports, however, to the Director Superior (Vice-Minister)
of the MTC and coordinates his work with the General Director of the GDLT.
3.10      It is doubtful whether the new organization will have a beneficial
effect on the MTC's organization and management. Before the reorganization,
lengthy, often unnecessary procedures delayed the activities of the Ministry
considerably. Making and implementing decisions took more time than necessary,
and there was not enough delegation of authority and responsibility. In the
new organization, with legal, financial and technical advisors at more levels
than previously (the level of the Directorates, the Director-General and the
Director-Superior) - one cannot but expect an increase of the delays. The
UNDP technical assistance project, for which the Bank is the executing agency,
will also provide recommendations on organizational matters; these conclusions
should be awaited, but with a reorganization effected only recently, changes
may take some time.
E.   Highway Engineering
3.11      Designing roads in each region in Peru has its particular difficulties.
Road construction in the Costa is relatively simple and cheap. However, rare
torrential rains may cause flooding, with consequent damage to pavement
structures. It is therefore necessary to determine the extent to which these
rare heavy rains should be considered for design purposes. Also,  heavy
traffic on the lightly constructed Pan-American Highway causes existing pave-
ments to deteriorate; moreover, increasing congestion near the big cities



- 11 -
makes the construction of bypasses or sections of expressway necessary. The
need for strengthening (or replacing) existing pavement must be determined,
as well as the optimum timing for such strengthening and for constructio- ,f
bypasses and sections of expressways.
3.12      The Sierra imposes great difficulties in road design.  For the roads
linking the Costa with the highland plateau (generally over Andean passes which
are more than 4,200 m high), it is relatively easy to find alignments with a
gradient not exceeding 6%, but a satisfactory horizontal alignment and suf-
ficient road width are difficult to arrange; cuts and fills and retaining
walls are tmpensive and each interference with existing slopes may introduce
landslides. The horizontal alignment and road width must be adequate to
accommodate existing traffic and allow for future traffic growth, without
incurring too high initial costs, while avoiding landslides as much as pos-
sible. The roads on the highland plateau are relatively easy to construct.
The roads on the east side of the Andes, however, are the most difficult in
the country. Rainfall is extremely heavy, slopes are unstable, soils are
unsuited for road construction, and adequate road building materials are
difficult to find. In designing, extreme care has to be taken to avoid
landslides, to the extent possible, by following the curves of the terrain
and by limiting road widths. In the Selva, the terrain is flat, rainfall
heavy, drainage difficult and road building materials scarce. Generally, a
dry season track is all that is necessary, unless a regional development plan
is carried out in conjunction with road improvements.
3.13      Peru's official geometric design standards do not take the above
mentioned considerations sufficiently into account; roads in difficult terrain
have generally been overdesigned, and roads have often been underdesigned in
easy sections with high traffic levels. In this respect, experience with
foreign and local consultants has frequently been disappointing. However, the
Directorate of Studies is now staffed with engineers and economists who realize
the necessity of optimizing designs, and there is hope that this trend, streng-
thened by the results of the UNDP planning assistance, will bear fruit in
adequate designs and moderate construction costs.
F.   Highway Construction
3.14      In highway construction, experiences in Peru have been dismal.
After under-estimation of the difficulties in the design stage, contractors
not familiar with this type of terrain often quoted prices which were too
low for the difficulties they were to encounter. Virtually all works carried
out with foreign financing have run into major difficulties. The Government
concluded that foreign contractors and consultants had not been working in
the country's interest, and, in two cases, even legal proceedings were entered
(against the consultants and contractors of the Aguaytia-Pucallpa road (loan
271-PE) and the USAID/ Eximbank-financed Nieva-Tarapoto road). With time,
however, the Government has moderated its attitude, and local and foreign
consultants and contractors have gained experience and again are being given
an opportunity to contribute to the country's development effort.
3.15      The fairly well developed local construction industry has traditionally
shown more interest in urban civil works (expressways, buildings) than in



- 12 -
the construction of rural roads. Nevertheless, there seems to be a change
in that interest, and an important number of local contractors are now
register I in the GDLT, of which about 8-12 are capable of executing highway
works in the US$3 to 5 million range annually. Recently, local firms have
been awarded contracts for road construction, through international competitive
bidding, for works financed under loan 706-PE (para. 1.06).
G.   Highway Maintenance
3.16      With a still underdeveloped highway network, highway maintenance is
of the utmost importance to bring the roads to, or keep them in, at least a
minimum tolerable condition. Funds allocated for maintenance have been tradi-
tionally insufficient, especially with respect to repair and seal coating of
asphalt roads. In 1961, the Bank made a highway maintenance loan (Loan 300-PE)
for US$10 million to provide technical assistance (Renaudet-SAUTI, Italy) and
to finarce the purchase of equipment and the reconstruction of obsolete bridges.
In the period up to 1966, the tasks set forth were accomplished, the main-
tenance budget was also increased gradually, and 22,000 km of roads were
maintained. However, thereafter, because of a shortage of funds, maintenance
efforts declined. The Government is now placing considerable emphasis on
road maintenance and has increased budget allocations for this purpose con-
siderably. From a low of SI. 144 million (US$5.5 million) in 1967, the main-
tenance budget for the two-year period 1973-1974 is established at SI. 800
million (US$20 million). This is still insufficient to maintain the entire
network adequately, but a doubling of the maintenance allocation has been
programmed for 1975/76. Even this may prove less than the maintenance needs
of the system, estimated roughly at around US$25 to 30 million per year.
Nevertheless, as the financial constraint is removed, other limitations,
mainly organizational, and the lack of sufficient qualified staff may prove
to be more pressing.
3.17      The maintenance problem is compounded by the inadequate operations
of the Servicio de Equipo Mecanico (SEM), a new Government agency within the
MTC, which charges for supplying maintenance and construction equipment to all
users (public as wgell as private) on a commercial basis. Although the idea
is sound, operations are inadequate. The GDLT has first priority in the
distribution of available equipment, but poor coordination, insufficient and
poorly maintained equipment and deficient management of SEM hamper efficient
road maintenance operations.
3.18      Overloading of trucks is also a severe problem in Peru.  Five per-
manent weighing stations were installed under Loan 300-PE, and the records
show that trucks are often overloaded (especially single rear-axle trucks).
There is no evidence that fines are sufficiently high or regulations properly
enforced. The Ministry is fully aware of the implications and intends to
take remedial action.
3.19      A program of technical assistance and training in highway maintenance
started in March 1974, financed under Loan 706-PE. This program will help the
Government to establish a sound basis for revising present maintenance organiza-
tion and procedures and will review the investment program and operations of
SEMi.



- 13 -
3.20      During negotiations, the Government agreed, on the basis of the
recommendations of the consultants providing the technical assistance
financed under loan 706-PE (para. 3.19), to provide sufficient funds to
maintain its road network adequately and to strictly enforce the regulations
regarding the weight of vehicles.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) Construction and improvement of the road from
Huanuco to Aguaytia, totaling about 219 km;
(b) Construction and improvement of feeder roads,
totaling about 200 km;
(c) Procurement of maintenance equipment for the
La Oroya-Pucallpa road;
(d) Resealing of a 61-km stretch of the road from Neshuya to
Pucallpa;
(e) Consulting services for:
(i) Construction supervision of (a) and (b);
(ii) Geotechnical studies;
(iii) Marginal costs of road transport study; and
(iv) Transport preinvestment studies.
(i) Construction and Improvement of the Huanuco-Aguaytia Road
4.02      In September 1965, the Bank made a loan (425-PE; US$33 million) for
the improvement of the La Oroya-Aguaytia section. The extraordinarily diffi-
cult geological, soils and climatic conditions of the region, however, had
been vastly underestimated in the design and cost estimates of the original
studies, as well as in the bid prices of the contractors; this factor, together
with inflation and the Government's inability to pay contractors for extended
periods, led to large time and cost overruns. In November 1969, the Borrower
and the Bank agreed to reduce the scope of the project in order to match the
then available loan funds; consequently, the remaining works were postponed
for a second phase. A portion of these works, corresponding to the most
critical Huanuco-Aguaytia section (219 km), are now included in the proposed
project.
4.03      The Huanuco-Aguaytia road can be divided into the following main
sections:



- 14 -
(a)  The 139-km road section from Huanuco to the Tarapoto Fork,
15 km beyond Tingo Maria, crosses the Carpish mountain range
through a tunnel at ui altitude of 2,700 m and reaches Tingo
Maria at a 650 m elevation. An adequate alignment and road
width were provided during the first phase, and the additional
works now to be carried out call for retaining walls, slope
protection and additional provisions in unstable areas; 1975
traffic is estimated at an average 500 vehicles per day (of
which 70% are trucks). An asphalt pavement is included in
the project, except in the difficult section between the
Carpish tunnel and the Caracol area (9 km).
(b)  The 80-km road section from the Tarapoto Fork to Aguaytia
crosses a mountain range (1,650 m), passes through the 2-km
gorge of Padre Abad and reaches Aguaytia in relatively flat
terrain, 300 m above sea level.  This section is the most
unstable and difficult area of the whole road; during the
first phase works, the road embankment was only partially
completed, and extensive drainage and protection works are
still required; even so, the instability of the mountain
slopes in a 60-km section is such that the goal under the
proposed project will be solely to provide for an adequate
gravel road with a reduced chance of interruption to traffic
because of landslides or embankment failures. Under the
proposed project, in-depth geotechnical studies will be carried
out, on which future works, aiming at providing a permanent
solution, will be based. Traffic in 1975 is estimated at 300
vehicles per day; 75% are trucks. The 34-km road sectior.s
without stability problems are proposed to be paved with
asphalt.
The standards to which the road has been designed (Table 5) are satisfactory;
the consultants, SAUTI (Italy), at the request of the MTC and the Bank, have
optimized the design of each section and reduced cost wherever possible (para.
4.11). The nature of the terrain and the type of work to be executed are
such that labor-intensive techniques would generally not be appropriate;
nevertheless, parts of the work, such as slope protection, lining of ditches
and river erosion protection, are labor-intensive. During negotiations, the
design standards of the road were confirmed.
(ii) Improvement of Feeder Roads
4.04      Although the main function of the project road is that of a trunk
route linking Lima and Huanuco with Tingo Maria, the Huallaga Valley (Tarapoto)
and Pucallpa, its usefulness would be greatly enhanced if feeder roads lead-
ing into it were also improved.  The GDLT has selected three roads, totaling
200 km, for which minimum improvements are proposed in the project, such as
the construction of bridges and culverts and the provision of a minimum neces-
sary width (generally 4 meters) and a gravel surface (para. 5.14). Costs are
estimated at US$2.5 million on the basis of preliminary calculations. Simplified
detailed engineering for these works will be prepared by the GDLT and approved
by the Bank prior to starting construction.



- 15 -
(iii) Road Maintenance
4.05      Because of the field investigations pursuant to the legal proceedings
concerning the construction of the Aguaytia-Pucallpa road (para. 1.04), the
MTC was legally impeded from maintaining the road adequately. Now that the
legal problem has been settled, the MTC is faced with an urgent need to reseal
the 61-km section leading into Pucallpa, which was paved during execution of
Loan 271-PE in 1967-1968; if not protected soon, the present traffic (around
300 vehicles per day, of which 75% are heavy vehicles) could seriously damage
the pavement. A double surface treatment, estimated to cost US$0.7 million
on the basis of recent similar works in Peru, has been included in the proposed
project.
4.06      There is a tradeoff between construction costs on the one hand and
maintenance and vehicle operating costs on the other. The consultants endea-
vored to establish a minimum total cost solution; as a result, construction
costs were reduced somewhat, and, consequently, maintenance costs will be
higher than they would have been at a higher construction cost level. The
necessary maintenance equipment for the proposed road, and that required for
efficient maintenance of the La Oroya-Huanuco and the Aguaytia-Pucallpa
sections, has been estimated by Government, with the consultants' assistance,
at about US$2.2 million and has been included in the proposed project; it
will also help guarantee a satisfactory maintenance level on the road, once
completed. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that a maintenance program for the La Oroya-Pucallpa road will be carried out,
as recommended by the consultants employed by the NTC; the new maintenance
equipment and sufficient funds for its operation will be included in that
program.
(iv) Consulting Services
4.07      The proposed project provides for the financing of consulting
services to assist in the evaluation of bids for the road works and in the
procurement of maintenance equipment and to supervise the construction and
improvement works. The Ministry has invited proposals from several consulting
firms, including SAUTI (Italy), which was already in charge of the supervision
for the first phase works and the feasibility study and detailed engineering
for the second phase works. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
consultants will be contracted for construction and improvement supervision
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.08       Also included in the proposed project are in-depth geotechnical
studies (para. 4.03(b)).  The assistance of a specialized firm or a group of
experts will be obtained with the objective of studying a permanent solution
for the unstable stretches of road, as well as devising guidelines for road
construction in similar difficult areas in the Andes.  During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the GDLT on the contracting of experts and consult-
ants for these studies on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.09      In addition, the proposed loan provides US$1.1 million for the
financing of a study to provide recommendations regarding road user charges
(para. 3.08), as well as for the feasibility study and detailed engineering



- 16 -
of the required improvements to the road between Tarma and Oxapampa, the
access road from La Oroya and Lima to a number of productive eastern valleys.
Both studies will be carried out under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, by experts or consultants satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.10      The total cost of the project includes contingency allowances and
is estimated at US$40.0 million; the foreign exchange comaponent is US$21.1
million equivalent; the proposed Bank participation is US$26 million, thus
implying US$4.9 million of local cost financing (para. 4.14). A summary of
the project cost is given on page 17.
4.11      The estimates of the construction costs of the Huanuco-Aguaytia
road are based on completed detailed engineering and have been updated to
reflect costs at probable time of bidding (mid-1974). At the request of the
Bank and the MTC, the consultants have studied to what extent cost of the
works on this road could be decreased without sacrificing the basic objec-
tives; this has led to a cost reduction of about 12%, which is reflected in
the cost estimates. During negotiations, the construction cost estimates were
confirmed.
4.12      The cost estimate for the improvement of feeder roads is based on
calculations by the GDLT after an identification mission and subsequent evalua-
tion. The cost estimate for the maintenance equipment was made by the con-
sultants and is satisfactory (para. 4.06). The cost for the consulting serv-
ices has been estimated by the mission on the basis of costs for similar
services carried out in Peru.
4.13      A contingency allowance of 15% of the construction costs has been
included for increases in quantities. A further contingency has been in-
cluded for price escalation, from the time of opening of bids until completion
of construction, estimated to be four years later, equivalent to about 22%
of the project's basic cost estimate. It results from the use of annual
escalation rates for foreign costs ranging from 10% to 5%, depending on the
year and the item being procured, and a constant annual rate of 10% for local
currency costs. These contingency allowances contemplate the effects of
recent increases in world and domestic inflation trends and are considered
adequate.
4.14      The consultants' estimate of the foreign exchange component for
the civil works, as adjusted by Bank staff, is about 50%, assuming that half
the works would be carried out by foreign contractors and half by Peruvian
contractors. A Bank participation of 65% has been adopted on country grounds
for construction work; this would imply financing of local currency expendi-
tures of US$3.6 million.  The foreign exchange component for consulting ser-
vices has been estimated at 60% on the basis that the services will be pro-
vided by foreign firms in joint venture with Peruvian firnis. For the contin-
gencies item, a Bank participation of 60% has been assumed, implying a local
currency financing of US$1.2 million.



- 17 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
US$          Bank Parti-
Soles Million        Million Equivalent    cipation
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  US$    %
A. Civil Works
(i) Construction
and Improvement
of Huanuco-
Aguaytia
Road             395     398       793    10.2    10.3    20.5  13.3   65
(ii) Improvement of
Feeder Roads      58      39        97     1.5      1.0     2.5   1.6   65
Sub-Total     453      437      890    11.7    11.3    23.0  14.9   65
B. Consulting Services
(i) Construction
Supervision      35       54       89      0.9     1.4      2.3   1.4   60
(ii) Additional Geo-
technic Studies  12       15        27     0.3     0.4      0.7   0.4   60
(iii) Road User Charges
and Pre-Investment
Studies          15       27       42      0.4     0.7      1.1   0.7   60
Sub-Total      62       96      158      1.6     2.5      4.1   2.5   60
C. Road Maintenance
(i) Equipment          -      85        85       -      2.2     2.2   2.2  100
(ii) Resealing of
Neshuya-Pucallpa 15       12        27     0.4      0.3     0.7   0.4   65
Sub-Total      15       97      112      0.4     2.5      2.9   2.6   90
Basic Cost Estimate 530      630    1,160    13.7    16.3    30.0  20.0   67
D. Contingencies
(i) Physical
(15% of A and
C(ii))         70       66      136      1.8     1.7      3.5   2.1   60
(ii) Price Escalation
(22% of Basic
Cost Estimate)  131      120       251     3.4      3.1     6.5   3.9   60
Sub-Total     201      186      387      5.2     4.8    10.0   6.0   60
TOTAL         731      816    1,547    18.9    21.1    40.0  26.0   65



- 18 -
4.15      Under the foregoing assumptions, the proposed loan would thus finance
US$26 million, including US$4.9 million in local currency financing.  The
remaining local costs will be met by the Government from budgetary allocations.
The two-year 1973-1974 budget excludes local costs of those projects which are
expected to be financed by foreign agencies, but on which no final commitment
has been made by these agencies; the purpose is to avoid "freezing" local
funds, while awaiting external financing to materialize. During negotiations,
the Government confirmed that the necessary allocation for the remainder of
the two-year 1973-1974 budget period will be made promptly as needed and
assured that subsequent allocations for future two-year periods will also be
made.
C.   Disbursements
4.16      Disbursements will be made on the following basis:  (a) 65% of total
expenditures for civil works contracts; (b) 60% of total expenditures for con-
sulting services and (c) 100% of foreign exchange costs of maintenance equip-
ment. Based on this and on the proposed project execution schedule, an esti-
mated schedule of disbursements has been prepared (Annex 1). Surplus funds
remaining in the loan account on completion of the project would be cancelled.
D.   Execution
4.17      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of the GDLT in
the MTC. Consulting services under the project will be provided by consult-
ants or experts on terms satisfactory to the Bank.
4.18      For the construction and improvement of the Huanuco-Aguaytia road,
and the resealing of a section between Neshuya and Pucallpa, there will be
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
The work has been divided into six bidding sections, five between Huanuco
and Aguaytia, and the remaining one for the resealing works. Contractors
would be able to bid on either section or a combination of sections, which
would be attractive to local contractors, foreign contractors and joint
ventures; the value of the sections varies between US$3-5 million, except
for the resealing (US$0.7 million). The bidding and contracting procedures
were agreed during negotiations. In order to gain time, the Government
started selection of consultants and bidding procedures for construction
works following negotiations; award of contracts is expected around September
1974 and construction would begin toward the end of 1974.
4.19      For executing the improvement and construction of feeder roads, the
Government has proposed two alternatives. Under the first, the Ministry
would carry out the works by force account; it would supply the minimum
equipment necessary and general management, and labor would be provided by
the surrounding villages. Because the work consists mainly of selected
repairs and improvements dispersed along the feeder roads, with a considerable
input of local labor, it is deemed more efficient to carry them out by force
account. The second alternative would be to carry out these works by normal
unit price contracts. Accordingly, the Bank has agreed tiat these civil
works could be executed, at the Government's option, by force account or
through locally advertised international competitive bidding, provided,



- 19 -
however, that the works are supervised by consultants selected by the Govern-
ment and acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.07). The Bank will finance 65% of
the total cost of improving the feeder roads. However, in order to keep the
administration simple, it was agreed that the Bank would disburse 65% of
total cost as estimated by the MTC and confirmed by consultants; progress and
work quality would be vouched for by consultants.
4.20      Procurement of maintenance equipment will be on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding with due regard to a domestic preference of 15%
of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the prevailing duty applicable to
non-exempt importers, whichever is lower. At present, major construction and
maintenance equipment are not produced in Peru. Since the MTC is not liable
to pay tariffs on imported equipment, the question of regional preference
does not apply. The procurement procedures were discussed and agreed during
negotiations.
4.21      Civil works are expected to start by the end of the fourth quarter
of 1974 and to be completed by the second quarter of 1978.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Peru's development history is dominated by two main features:  great
wealth is produced by only a small portion of the population, and the resulting
economic development takes place along the Costa and at some isolated mining
enclaves in the Andes. This pattern of development has proved capable of
achieving a respectable rate of overall economic growth, but it has also led
to wide disparities in productivity, employment opportunities and income levels
between the coast and the rest of the country, as well as between the urban
and rural population. Development of transport systems along the Costa is
generally easy and relatively inexpensive, while the rugged topography and
severe climatic conditions elsewhere in the country make transportation very
difficult and costly. This physical environment, coupled with traditionally
insufficient investment in construction and maintenance of transport facilities,
has had the effect of increasing the attractiveness of the Costa for other
productive investments, thus reinforcing the geographical concentration of
economic activity.
5.02      The primary policy objective of the present Government has been to
pursue a fundamental transformation of the pattern of development in the
country, while promoting as rapid an economic growth as would be compatible
with that structural transformation. The main objectives of the transforma-
tion include changing the very unequal distribution of wealth and income
and generating a sincere popular participation in the development process.
To achieve these goals, the Government has carried out, inter alia, an agrar-
ian reform entailing substantial changes in land ownership and farm organ-
ization and management, and is stimulating economic development in regions
outside the Lima-Callao area, with particular emphasis on the Eastern Region
(the eastern Andes piedmont and the Selva). Agricultural production--which



- 20 -
is being assisted by a recent Bank Agricultural Credit Project-has not de-
creased due to the agrarian reform; on the contrary, it has increased in
a number of cases. Nevertheless, during the last two decades, agricultural
production grew less than 2% annually as compared to 5% economic growth and
3% population growth. Because the domestic demand for foodstuff is increas-
ing faster than supply, there has been a steady deterioration in the agricul-
tural balance of trade. Two of the main factors hampering a faster growth
of agricultural production outside the coastal region have been the high
transport costs and the inadequacy of the road system. To achieve the Gov-
ernment's objectives mentioned above, and to support a continued and more
balanced growth of the agricultural sector and the overall economy, consider-
able Improvement of the transport system, particularly the road network, is
required.
5.03      Based on this strategy, the proposed project includes (a) the
improvement of the country's main transversal road (Lima-Oroya-Pucallpa) and
of a number of tertiary roads feeding into this highway and (b) the execution
of studies aiming at preparing further projects which could be the object of
future Bank operations.
B.   Construction and Improvement of the Huanuco-Aguaytia Road
5.04      For more than two decades, the improvement and paving of the
highway leading from Lima through La Oroya, Cerro de Pasco, Huanuco, Tingo
Maria, and Aguaytia to the headwaters of the Amazon river at Pucallpa have
been considered of high priority. Large investments have already been made
on improvement, and, although major difficulties have been encountered, the
economic effect of the works so far carried out has been profound. The
present road is much better than the trails which existed in the early 1960's,
and, as a consequence, the growth of the economy in the zone of influence
has been extensive. Pucallpa, a township of 26,000 inhabitants in 1961, grew
to 70,000 inhabitants in 1971, and Tingo Maria increased from 8,000 to more
than 20,000 inhabitants in the same period. Traffic over the road roughly
doubled between 1964 and 1972, reflecting a sizable growth of the economy
in its zone of influence (Table 6).
5.05      The project road provides the only land connection of the Costa
with Pucallpa and from there by river with Iquitos. Traffic through the
port of Pucallpa increased from 24,000 tons in 1962 to 81,000 tons in 1971,
an annual growth of about 14%.
5.06      The project road also gives access, in the neighborhood of Tingo
Maria, to the fertile valley of the Huallaga river, where a road to La Morada,
partly financed by the Inter-American Development Bank, has been under con-
struction for a number of years, and a road connection is expected to be
established with Tarapoto. Triggered by the road development, spontaneous
settlements of peasants from the Sierra have taken place along this valley
with Government assistance.



- 21 -
5.07      In 1972, traffic over the 219-km road from Huanuco to Aguaytia
varied from 350 vehicles per day between Huanuco and Tingo Maria to about
200-250 vehicles per day beyond Tingo Maria. Due to local traffic, however,
these volumes increased in the neighborhoods of both Huanuco and Tingo Maria
to about 700 vehicles per day.
5.08      Only direct user benefits involving reductions in vehicle operating
costs, and driver and passenger time costs were evaluated. Other benefits
which have not been included are reduction of traffic accidents, reduced
breakage and spoilage of cargo and reduced inventory costs for goods in transit;
to the extent that the road improvement will produce such benefits, net benefits
have been understated. In addition to road user savings, changes which are
expected to occur in maintenance cost as a result of the proposed improvements,
including the provision of additional maintenance equipment for the Huanuco-
Aguaytia section, were included in the evaluation. A separate economic analysis
of the maintenance program -equipment provided under the project and recur-
rent yearly expenditures financed by the Government-- for the remainder of the
La Oroya-Pucallpa road was also carried out (para. 5.15). The combined effect
of the reduction in vehicle operating costs and the competitive nature of the
Peruvian trucking industry will probably be to reduce prices --or avoid
increases--to consumers of agricultural and forestry products, in the main
markets for these products, particularly Lima-Callao. Because present domestic
supply of agricultural products is insufficient to meet existing demand,
demand for these products will increase, leading to a development effect in
the production areas with widespread benefits to their population. These
effects have already been observed as a result of the Phase I improvements.
5.09      As a basis for computing benefits, SAUTI developed estimates of
vehicle operating costs for conditions in Peru based on De Weille 1/ and
using Peruvian input prices. These estimates, which are satisfactory, are
shown in Table 8; vehicle operating costs were evaluated for cars, medium
trucks and buses, on paved, gravel and earth roads, with pavement conditions
ranging from good through fair to poor; also, the influences of rolling and
mountainous terrain, as well as of road curvature, were established. Consult-
ants estimated traffic growth ranging between 6% and 9% per annum, which is
acceptable, taking into account the development impact of investments in
the different sections. To simplify the economic analysis, however, an annual
rate of growth of 7% for all sections was used, and a sensitivity analysis
with annual rates of 5% and 9% was carried out.
5.10      The consultants divided the road into 20 subsections and calculated
the benefits with and without time savings for each of them. A summary of the
benefits, the First Year Benefits (FYB) and the Economic Returns (ER) is de-
tailed in Table 9. The proposed project is well justified, with an economic
return of 24% without time savings and 29% with time savings. Section 6 in
the most difficult terrain shows the lowest economic values, although still
satisfactory (FYB 10.5% and ER 17%).
1, Quantification of Road User Savings, World Bank Occasional Paper
Number Two, 1968.



- 22 -
5.11      A sensitivity analysis of the proposed works (with time savings)
shows that, in case construction costs would increase by 15% or benefits
would be 25% lower, the proposed project would have an ER of 25% and 24%,
respectively, compared to a best estimate of 29%. In case traffic growth
would be 5X on average, instead of 7%, the ER would be 28%. The proposed
portion of the Phase II works is thus well justified.
5.12      Because of rapid and substantial increases of petroleum prices in
the world market during the final stages of preparation of this project, and
the prospects for prices to remain at a high level in the future, an attempt
has been made to assess their probable effects on the project.  A preliminary
analysis indicates that these effects are not likely to be significant. The
economic effect on construction costs and benefits, assuming a reasonable
domestic shadow price for fuel 1/, is likely to be small because of the nature
of the works -largely providing structures and pavement, with little earth-
work remaining in Phase II- and because the project is energy-saving, since
road vehicles will be riding at speeds and under conditions (road surface)
for which the fuel consumption will be less than without the proposed improve-
ments. Much more difficult to forecast is the effect of the overall high
level of fuel prices on future transport demand. It is probable, however,
that, given the shortage of agricultural products in Peru and the high world
prices for most of the cattle, agricultural and forestry goods being transported
on the project roads from eastern Peru, traffic growth rates will not decrease
in the future and might even increase beyond what has been conservatively
estimated in the economic analysis (7% annual rate of growth). Moreover, the
sensitivity analysis mentioned above has shown that the project is acceptable
within the likely range of variation of traffic growth in the future.
5.13      If the construction costs already incurred in Phase I are added to
the estimates for Phase II, and if it is conservatively assumed that the
benefits already obtained from Phase I works are only 50% of the benefits of
the Phase II works (i.e., that the combined benefits for Phases I and II
are 150% of those estimated for Phase II alone) the economic evaluation of
the entire project yields an economic return of 19% (Tables 7 and 10).
C.   Improvement of Feeder Roads
5.14      The GDLT selected three feeder roads leading into the La Oroya-
Pucallpa road for inclusion in the proposed project; the selection of the
roads and the level of improvements proposed are satisfactory. These roads
are the following:
1/   Peru is a net importer of petroleum products, but potentially rich
deposits are being explored.



- 23 -
(a)  Rancho Bridge-Panao (70 km).  Cost US$0.50 million; the area
produces 14,000 tons, mainly of potatoes, and has 60,000
heads of cattle. The trail is passable only part of the year,
and vehicle operating costs for about 20 trucks per day are
high. Improvement to gravel standards and 4 m width would
yield a return of 18% on existing traffic, without counting
the considerable development effect which the improvements
would generate.
(b)  Prado Bridge-Monzon (68 km).  Cost US$0.60 million; the
existing bridge over the Huallaga River needs to be replaced
and the existing trail improved. The area produces coffee,
cacao and fruits. Twenty thousand ha are exploited.
Traffic amounts to 25 vehicles per day. Based solely on
existing traffic, an economic return of 18% has been cal-
culated. Additional development may be expected in this
fertile zone of the piedmont area near Tingo Maria.
(c)  Road to Tournavista (62 km).  Two experimental colonization
schemes are in execution in this area, with 18,000 ha in ex-
ploitation and 5,000 heads of cattle so far. Improvement to
gravel standards and 4 m width in the most critical sections
and construction or improvement of bridges and culverts are
included in the proposed project at a cost of US$1.40 million.
With 21 vehicles per day, a return of 20% is expected without
counting the development effects.
D.   Road Maintenance Program
5.15      A road maintenance program for the entire 620-km La Oroya-Pucallpa
road is included in the project. Under the project, the Bank will finance
the foreign costs of the necessary maintenance equipment and 65% of the total
costs of resealing the last 61 km before Pucallpa. The economic evaluation
of the portion of the maintenance program applying to the Huanuco-Aguaytia
section has been included in the overall analysis for the improvements in
this section (para. 5.08). Benefits of the improved maintenance of the remain-
ing portions of the road, consisting of savings in vehicle operating costs
and deferment of pavement reconstruction costs, have been estimated, using
the data provided in the consultants' feasibility study. On the basis of a
traffic growth of 7% annually for all sections and an economic life of seven
years for the maintenance equipment and five years for the double surface
treatment, the proposed investment (both capital and annual recurrent costs)
yields rates of return in excess of 30% in both cases, which are acceptable.
E.   Pre-Investment Study
5.16      The economic feasibility and detailed engineering study of the
San Ramon-Oxapampa road aims at removing an obvious bottleneck in the link
between the main markets in the Sierra and Lima and several rich valleys to
the north, south and east of Oxapampa, some of which have been under cultiva-
tion for several years. The benefits from this project will lie mainly in



- 24 -
reducing presently excessive transport costs as well as in generating further
development in the production areas. Accordingly, the study has a prima facie
case to justify its execution.
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, the design standards and the construction
cost estimates were confirmed (paras. 4.03 and 4.11); the division in sections
for bidding purposes was also agreed (para. 4.18); and the procurement pro-
cedures discussed and agreed upon (para. 4.20).
6.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a) Government will carry out, with assistance of experts or
consultants acceptable to the Bank, a study to establish
the basis for formulating a sound pricing policy; the
Bank will be offered an opportunity to comment on the
terms of reference and the results of the study; and the
results of the study will be used as an input for revising
road-user charges (para. 3.08).
(b) Sufficient funds will be provided by Government to maintain
its road network adequately, on the basis of the recommenda-
tions of consultants providing technical assistance in road
maintenance, and regulations regarding the weight of vehicles
will be strictly enforced (para. 3.20).
[c) A maintenance program for the La Oroya-Pucallpa road will be
carried out, as recommended by the consultants employed by
the MTC; the new maintenance equipment, and sufficient funds
for its operation will be included (para. 4.06).
(d) MTC will contract consultants satisfactory to the Bank,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist
in the evaluation of bids for the road works and in the
procurement of maintenance equipment and for construction and
improvement supervision (para. 4.07).
(e) MTC will contract consultants satisfactory to the Bank, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for in-depth
geotechnical studies (para. 4.08) and for pre-investment
studies (para. 4.09).
(f) The necessary budgetary allocation for the remainder of the
two-year 1973-1974 budget period will be made promptly and
subsequent allocations for future two-year periods will also
be made (para. 4.15).



- 25 -
(g)  The bidding and contracting procedures for the improvement of
the Huanuco-Aguaytia road and the resealing of a section
between Neshuya and Pucallpa will follow international competi-
tive bidding procedures (para. 4.18).
(h) The improvement of feeder roads will be carried out by force
account, under the general responsibility of the MTC, or by
locally advertised international competitive bidding, at the
option of the Government; the works will be supervised by the
consultants mentioned in paragraph 6.02 (d) above (para. 4.19).
(i) The procurement of maintenance equipment will be on the basis
of international competitive bidding, with due regard to domestic
preference (para. 4.20).
6.03.     The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$26
million equivalent for a term of 25 years, including a five-year grace period.
April 11., 1974






Table 1
PERU
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Composition of Highway Network
(Kilometers)
YEAR     PAVED        GRAVEL       IMPROVED      UNIMPROVED        TOTAL
1065     4,334         6,449        11,645         20,389          42,817
1966     4,547         7,114        13,290         20,598          45,549
1967     4s,683        7,860        13,,430        21,21           47,184
1.968    4,869         8,391        13,923         22,501          49,684
1969     n.a.
1970     4,858         8,654        13,905         22,889          5O,306
1971     4,873        10,022        14,168         21,177          50,240
Sounce: MTC
Septeiber 1972



TABLE 2
PERU
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
YEAR           AUTOMOBILES           TRUCKS          BUSES        TOTAL
1950             31,984              24,030          1,453       57,467
1955             54,415              43,616          5,530      103,561
1960             79,,431             58,118          7,050      144,599
1965            137,/690-            77,007          6,899     221,596-
1966            159.,290-1/          89,607          7,299     256,196k'
1967            146,965              52,268         10,311     209,544-'
1968            156,673              64,692         12,762     234,12 /
1969            187,962              91,278         17,664     296,90W
1970            194,268              91,278         17,664     303,2109/
1971               -                   -              -        354,600?!
Annual Rate of Growth (1950-1971): 8.6%
Source: 1950-1963: Report No. WH-155a, Volume II, Transportation.  December 1965.
1964 and 1967-1969: Planning Office, Land Transport Directorate, MTC,
citing as original source the Direccion de Seguridad
Vial.
1965-1966: Peru, Bank Economic Mission of 1970. Transportation, Volume II.
1/ Probably includes motorcycles. These have been excluded from 1967-1970 data.
2/ These figures differ from other sources and must be used with reservations.
-  The 1971 figure probably includes about 34,000 motorqroles; excluding these,
the vehicle fleet in that year would have amounted to around 320,000 vehicles.
September 1973



TABLE 3
PElJ
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Fuel Consumption
(000 Cubic Metors)
YEAR                         GASOLINE                       DIESEL FUEL
1959                            867.1                              566.6
1960                            886.4                              568.2
1961                            930.3                              567.0
1962                         *1,025.0                              690.7
1963                          1,060.1                              755.5
1964                          1,182.2                              869.4
y965            .1,305.1                                          824.9
1966                           . 1,446.7                           899.1
1967                          1,562.1                              937.2
1968                          1s508.8                              999.5
Source: M]TC
February 1973



TABLE 4
PERU
SIXTH HIGffWAY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures and Road User Contributions
(Millions of current Soles)
1966     1967     1968    1969    197       1971     1972
A.  Highway Expenditures
Administration                99.5   147.3   156.7   151.2    200.0    230.6    268.0
Studies                       41.2      37.1     23.1    13.6      30.0     28.7     28.0
Construction                1585.9   2116.6    837.7   668.2    873.8   1027.0    980.0
Maintenance                  156.7    159.6    168.5   127.5    310.6    428.3    556.9
Ecqaipment                   466.8    370.8       6.3    -        74.8      -        20.0
Studies of urban trans-
port & traffic                                                   10.1      18.0     20.4
ORDEZA 4/                                                                  40.5   100l0
2350.1   2831.4   1192.3   960.5   1499.3   1773.1   1973.3
B. Road User Contributions
Excise Taxes                            19.0     37.0   42.4      67.2      57.7     55.0
Import Duties                          940.3    466.3   672.9    368.9    702.2    561.1
Gasoline Taxes                         447.2  1122.5  1152.9   I68.4   2293.6   2370.8
Vehicle Registration,
Licensing, Road Use, etc.             100.2   124.4   152.7    181.0    139.5    183.2
Tolls                                   16.8     19.0   22.8      399       570      73.0
1523.5   1769.2  2043.7   1825.4   3250.0   3243.1
1/ For lack of better statistics for this year, the above figares, representing estimates
of the Bank economic mission which visited Peru in April-May 1970, were used (Ref:
Report WH-206a).
2/ 1972 Transport Sector Mission estimates.
3/ Includes the Ministry of Transport and Communications, ORDEZA and the Maintenance Equip-
ment Agency (SEM). It excludes feeder roads.financed by the National Fund of Economic
Development (FNDE) and SINAMOS, and expenditures of the road transport regulation agency
(ORETT).
L/ Comite de Reconstruccion y Rehabilitacion de la Zona Afectada, This agency invested
mainly in feasibility studies and road construction, but the detailed breakdown is
unknown.
Sources: Bank Economic Mission Report, Transport Sector Review (Draft); June 8, 1970;
Volume II, Table 2.10.
Bank Economic Report Wff-206a, March 31, 1971; Table 5X13
Ministries of Economy and Finance, and Transport Communications, Peru.
March 1973



TABLE 5
PERU
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJ13CT
Design Standards for the Huanuoo-Aguaytia Road
Tme of Terrain
Design Elements                 Unit          Mountainous       Rolling       Flat
Design Speed                    kmAh               602/           80           100
Maximum grade                     %                 8%             6%            4%
Minimum radius of curvature       m               60-            150           300
1/
Platform width                    m              8.401-         8.40          8.40
Pavement width                    m              6.oo           6.00          6.oo
Shoulder width                    m              1.20           1.20         1.20
_/ Reduced in special cases
Source: Consultants
December 1972



PERU
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Flows on the Hbanuco-Aguaytia Road
Length   Traffic AAIDT         Traffic 1975 (est.)          Annual Growth (%)
(km)    1964    197    Total   Cars   Buses   Trucks   1964,1972   1972-1994
1. Huanuco-Tingo Maria                  124
- Huanuco-Panao road                 24     350    700       830    390      60       380            9           7
- Section over Carpish Pass          61     150    350       450    100      30       320           11           7
- Section through Tingo Maria        39       -    660       800    390       60      350            -           7
2.  Tingo Maria-Aguaytia                 95
- Section to Tarapoto Fork           15     150    250       310     90       20      200            7           7
- Remainder to Aguaytia              80     125    200       250     30       20      200            6           7
Source: Feasibility Study SAUTI
March 1974



PERU
SIXTH HIGIHAY PROJECT
Construction Cost Huanuco-Aguaytia Road
Section                  Length                        Construction Cost (Financial)
km       Phase I   US$,/km     Phase II   US$/kmu    Phases I & II   US$fk
(US$ million)        (US$ million)             (US$ million)
Huanuco-Caracol            69          14.1   205,000         6.5     95,000     20.6            300,000
Caracol-Tarapoto Fork      70          10.2   145,000        5.3      75,000     15.5            220,000
Tarapoto Fork-Aguaytia     80          12.8   160,000         8.7    110,000     21.5            270,000
219         37.1   170,000        20.5     94,000      57.6           263,000
Sources Feasibility Study SAUTI and Appraisal Mission's Estimates
March 1974



PERU                        TAELE, 8
SIXTH HIGHTWAY PROJECT
(Sol*s7R,u;e3onomic oost)
Paved         Gravel          Earth
CAR
Pavement Condition Good                              1.06           1.38             1.76
Fair                             1.22            1.57            2.00
Poor                             1.38            1.76            2.24
Increment for rolling terrain                        0.05           0.09             0.15
Increment for mountainous terrain                   0.23            0.36            0.48
Increment for winding road                           0.02           0.01              -
Increment for very winding road                     0.13            0.10            0.03
MEDIUM TRUCK
Pavement Condition  Good                             3.33           5.14             8.37
Fair                            4.24            6.76           1l.00
Poor                            5.14            8.37           13.63
Increment for rolling terrain                        0.24           0.32             0.52
Increment for mountainous terrain                    0.71           0.99             1.75
Increment for winding road                           0.04            -                -
Increment for very winding road                      0.22           0.06              -
BUS
Pavement Condition  Good                             3.76           5.65             9.84
Fair                            4.71            7.74           13.47
Poor                            5.65            9.84           17.11
Increment for rolling terrain                        0.33           0.38             0.76
Increment for mountainous terrain                    1.00           1.38             2.37
Increment for winding road                           0.05            -                -
Increment for very winding road                      0.27           0.07
Source: Feasibility Study SAUTI (Italy)
February,, 1973



SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation Results - Huanuco-Aguaytia Road
Sensitivi
conomic bluation .          Analysis
Based on best Estimates /3
Section        Length  Financial Cost/l  Economic Cost12   Without time  With time
ky    (S/million)         (S/million)        benefits&   benefitsL2e              jj  /10
FIB    ER    FIB    ER    ER    ER    ER    ER
Huanuco-Caracol         69         309                 216          20      26     30    36    30    29    34    37
Caracol-Tarapoto Fork   70         254                 178          21      28     26    32    27    26    30    34
T.Fork-Aguaytia          80        409                 286          15      2      16    23    20    18    21    25
TOTAL            219         972                680           18     24      23    29    25    24    28    31
1/  Including direct construction costs, 1 5 physical contingencies and construction supervision.
2/ Financial costs net of taxes-,
2/ Basis for best estimates: (i)annual traffic growth rate, 7%; (ii) base year for analysis, 1974, (iii)construction
period, three years (1974-1977); (iv) economic life of project, 20 years (1977-1996).
v  Savings in vehicle operating costs and road maintenance costs.
Time benefits due to reductions in stopping time (mainly delays due to road closures) and travel time.
/ Based on best estimates with time benefits.
1/ Construction.cost overrun of 15% and benefits slipped according to the cost overrun.                                 H
/ Benefits decreased by 25%.
2/ Annual traffic growth rate decreased to 5%.
1O/ Annual traffic growth rate increased to 9%.                                                                         \
Sourcet SAUTI's feasibility study, modified by the appraisal mission.
March 1974



TABLE 10
PERU
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Data Huanuco-Aguaytia Road
Total Phases I and II
Section                Economic Cost-Y      Benefits in 122/          ER1/
V(S$ million)         (US$ millon)
Huanuco-Caracol               15.2                   3.0              20
Caracol-Tarapoto Fork         11.6                   2.1              19
Tarapoto Fork-Aguaytia        15.9                   2.1 *Z
TOTAL               42.7                   7.2             19
1/ Total arithmetic sum of economic construction costs between 1966 (beginning of
Phase I) and 1977 (estimated end of construction of Phase II). The costs
represent actual expenditures through 1973 and estimates thereafter; construction
supervision for both phases and 15 % physical contingencies for Phase II are
also included.
2/ Based on the assumption that the combined benefits of Phases I and II amount
to 150% of the benefits estimated for Phase II alone (including time benefits;
see Table 9). Given the very rudimentary condition of the road before 1966,
this is a very conservative assumption. The base year for economic analysis
was taken as 1974; therefore, no benefits were assumed before this year.
3/ Assuming annual rate of growth of traffic of 7% and 20 years economic life.
Source: Appraisal Mission's estimates
,1arch 1974



ANNEX 1
PERU
IXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of .)isbursements
IBRD FISCAL YEAR                             Cumulative Disbursements at
and Quarter Ending                           End of Quarter (US$ thousands)
FY 1975
September 30, 2974                                            100
December 31, 1974                                           2,200
March 31, 1975                                              2,500
June 30, 1975                                               4,100
FY 1976
September 30, 1975                                          6,000
December 31, 1975                                           8,000
March 31, 1976                                             10,100
June 30, 1976                                              12,300
FY 1977
September 30, 1976                                        14,600
December 31, 1976                                          16,700
March 31, 1977                                             18,600
June 30, 1977                                              20,300
FY 1978
September 30, 1977                                         21,900
December 31, 1977                                          23, 40o
March 31, 1978                                             24,800
June 30, 197S                                              26,000
Assumptions for main component: Hu4nuco-Aguaytia
Loan Effective: July 1974
Contracts Bidding: May 1974-August 1974
Start of Construction:  September 1974-December 1974
.ource:  Appraisal Mission
April 1974






w-,s,'~~~~~~~V                                                               7r wW;'==    <_7;;,7<;  ri; 7';      ;t    j  t ='     
A M E R t C A/                 I 5; j  9           :    <z            :   L:  0.i:                f10XX        01      $
b~~~~~~~~~ 7 V   A77  '                   OU  Rc         o;8 N', ';t  ; ; t/
v T~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  i74                 !k: | \0;r;          
F   XrS                              =-^+              ''H/                               4       '                    .' 
oc8             7         f           \7tt                                    re         ; ;4; ;;0                        -
0 o  : \   0   M                        <S            zo      t                        ;   X'E             f    d'   f F f     .
I W   S -('L  t'{f"d
e  W   g   f  f  %r  i P .) M .J _12 " C,E r S~~~~~   R   A 
_\adS   C                                               1SK   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
-12'                             "        t_,-an         X       -               _                       \,, J ,35s, i7Q~~~~~~~~~~
51XTH    HIGHWAY   PROJECT  r D &r_s>\ 1 / bOn7o -+ Mrf Se
COSTUC N NDIMRVEEN     q -       n>4bsopswW              Mhuws       C)Xsne71 53
PROP0AT ID PROGPCMTO EIMRVD           ~      |                  hl             rw g 5 E   -l-h
-- - -N-DRNT RONALfUDAIS                                                                             316' ' be.b 14 #i
~~~~~~~~~~~~R. AILWA'>f'D'OS lr:LsRh<cIE: 
RA    I W A   7F E7R R;Y                                                                         c 5> : E     r      



