Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17896
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
O NA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION
TO
MEXICO
FORA
KNOWLEDGE AND INNOVATION PROJECT
May 22, 1998
Finance, Infrastructure and Private Sector Management Unit
Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 1998)
Currency Unit = Mex$
Mex$8.51 = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CCC            President's Science Advisory Council - Consejo Consultivo de Ciencias
CONACYT        National Science and Technology Council - Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y
Tecnologia
DO             Development Objective
ESW            Economic and Sector Work
FIDETEC        Research and Development Fund for Technological Modernization - Fondo de
Investigacion y Desarrollo para la Modernizaci6n Tecnol6gica
FORCCYTEC   Fund for Scientific and Technological Capacity Strengthening - Fondo para el
Fortalecimiento de las Capacidades Cientiflcas y Tecnol6gicas
FSD            Financial Sector Development Department
FY             Fiscal Year
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA            International Development Association
IADB           Inter-American Development Bank
INEGI          National Institute of Statistics, Geography, and Informatics - Instituto Nacional
de Estadistica, Geografia e Informatica
IP             Implementation Progress
KIP            Knowledge and Innovation Project
LIBOR          London Interbank Offer Rate
MSTQ           Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality
NAFIN          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
NAFTA          North American Free Trade Agreement
NIST           National Institute of Standards and Technology
NSF            National Science Foundation
OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PACIME         Support Program for Science in Mexico - Programa de Apoyo a la Ciencia en
Me'xico
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Unit Director: Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Management Unit Director: Krishna Challa, Acting
Task Team Leader: Daniel Crisafulli



PAHO           Pan American Health Organization
PCD            Project Concept Document
PROMTEC        Technology Modernization Support Program - Programa de Apoyo a la
Modernizaci6n Tecnol6gica
R&D            Research and Development
RFP            Request for Proposals
S&T            Science and Technology
SECOFI         Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Development - Secretaria de Comercio y
Fomento Industrial
SECODAM        Ministry of the Comptroller General
SEP            Ministry of Education - Secretaria de Educaci6n Pziblica
SME            Small and Medium Enterprise
SHCP           Ministry of Finance and Public Credit - Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito
Puiblico
SNI            National System of Researchers - Sistema Nacional de Investigadores
TBD            To be determined
UAM            Autonomous Metropolitan University - UniversidadAut6noma Metropolitana
UNAM           National Autonomous University of Mexico - Universidad Nacional Aut6noma
de Mexico
WB             The World Bank
WHO            World Health Organization



Mexico
Knowledge and Innovation Project
CONTENTS
Pages
A. Project Development Objective   ...............2.......................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ............                                    ..........2
B. Strategic Context .......................................................2
1. Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project ...........................................2
2.  Main sector issues and Government strategy ...................................................3
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices ...................6
C. Project Description Summary ......................................................8
1. Project components .................................................8
2. Key policy and  institutional reforms supported by the project ........................9
3.  Benefits and target population ................................................ 10
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ...........................................  11
D. Project Rationale ......................................................                                                         11
1.  Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ............................... 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies ......................................................                                       12
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design .............................. 13
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership  ....................                               ................ 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................... 14
E. Summary Project Analyses ......................................................                                                 14
1. Economic ......................................................                                                    14
2. Financial ......................................................                                                    14
3. Technical ......................................................                                                    15
4.  Institutional ...................................................... 15
5. Social ......................................................                                                       15
6.  Environmental assessment ......................................................                                    15
7.  Participatory  approach    ...................................................... 15



F. Sustainability and Risks .............................                    16
1. Sustainability .......................                             16
2. Critical risks .......................                             16
3. Possible controversial aspects .......................             17
G. Main Loan Conditions .............................                        17
1. Disbursement and other conditions
H. Readiness for Implementation          ............................. 18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies         ............................. 18
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .19
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description .22
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .31
Annex 4.  Economic Analysis .32
Annex 5.  Financial Summary .46
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .47
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .50
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .51
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds .52
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule .53
Annex 8.   Documents in Project File .54
Annex 9.   Statement of Loans and Credits.                                   5 5
Annex 10.  Country at a Glance .57
Map



Mexico
Knowledge and Innovation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Mexico Country Management Unit
Date: May 22, 1998                                         Task Team Leader: Daniel Crisafulli
Country Management Unit Director: Olivier Lafourcade       Sector Management Unit Director: Krishna Challa, Acting
Project ID: MX-PE-44531    Sector: Industry - Other (IY)   Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan               Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                  [X] Loan         [] Credit          [] Guarantee   [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 300.0
Proposed terms:                           []   Multicurrency        [X] Single currency, specify: US Dollar
Grace period (years): 3              []   Standard Variable    [X] Fixed  [] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: Standard for medium-disbursing loans
Commitment fee: 0.75% less applicable waivers
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                           Local          Foreign          Total
Government                                                       209.3             0.0          209.3
IBRD                                                               4.0           296.0          300.0
Private Sector                                                   153.5             0.0           153.5
Total          366.8           296.0          662.8
Borrower: Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Guarantor: United Mexican States
Responsible agency: CONACY T
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):       1998         1999        2000        2001      2002         2003
Annual       6.0         26.0         60.0       68.0       70.0      70.0
Cumulative       6.0        32.0         92.0       160.0      230.0    300.0
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: September 15, 1998
Expected closing date: December 31, 2003
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Project aims to promote the generation, diffusion, and application of knowledge for innovation in
support of economic and social development. Emphasis would be placed on stimulation of linkages and
effective diffusion of knowledge for innovation, via the following actions:
*  Support excellence in science and technological research, increase the availability of scientific and
technological human capital, and institute an integrated strategy for development of fields of science
of strategic importance to Mexico's economic and social development.
*  Support increased firm-level productivity through provision of decentralized, demand-driven
technological services for small and medium enterprises and creation of a pilot private sector-led
venture capital scheme.
* Facilitate linkages between private firms, universities and research institutions through financial
support for joint activity and technical assistance to bridge institutions.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document: 16135-ME; Progress Report R98-49. Date of latest CAS discussion: March 26, 1998
The project would aim to support the CAS objective of Growth with Stability via actions to increase
firm-level productivity in Mexico over the medium- and long-term. The CAS Progress Report states the
problem clearly: "Productivity collapsed with the crisis in 1982 and it failed to grow significantly
since.... Output per worker for the economy as a whole declined by 22 percent between 1981 and 1994
(Progress Report, p. 5)." In order for Mexico to achieve higher growth in total factor productivity (TFP)
and thereby sustained growth in income and real wages, firms must improve levels of quality and
technology. The potential impact of increased amount and effectiveness of investment in science and
technology is illustrated by the maquila (in bond processing) sector. For Mexico as a whole, the average
value added in the maquila sector is 3-5 percent. However, in areas with strong private sector-oriented
universities and technological support services, such as Monterrey, the value added among maquiladoras
exceeds 20 percent. Survey data indicate that the technical capacity of local firms plays a large role in
determining export linkages. Increasing the performance of the system for knowledge and innovation
throughout Mexico could therefore result in large gains in productivity and quality. The project would
aim to strengthen firm-level capacity over the medium- to long-term via the restructuring of the system
for knowledge and innovation - the set of institutions responsible for generation, diffusion and application
of knowledge for productive purposes.
Each component of the project would also support the objective of Modernization of the State. The
project would streamline CONACYT administration overall in support of the CAS aim to "increase the
effectiveness of public programs, e.g., improving efficiency and transparency." (CAS, p.7). The
restructuring of most of the SEP-CONACYT system of science and technology centers would increase
cost recovery while improving client orientation and effectiveness of service provision in support of
industry. The firm-level technology enhancement component would be executed via a decentralized
network of private agents.
The project would also support the CAS objective of Social Development through increased educational
opportunities in both public and private universities. Social benefits may also accrue from development
of health sciences, biotechnology, and environmentally-friendly technologies. The Field Development
sub-component would channel resources to emerging and lagging areas of science with important social
impact.
2



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poor Performance of System for Knowledge and Innovation.
The Mexican innovation "system", comprised of the enterprises, universities, and other public and private
institutions involved in the generation, diffusion, and application of knowledge for productive purposes,
remains inefficient in channeling science and technology (S&T) investment into productive applications.
Under the protection of a closed economy prior to 1986, Mexican industry developed in an environment
in which enhancements in quality and technology were largely unrewarded. Even large firms apparently
invest low amounts in adapting and developing new technologies: an estimated 66 percent of research
and development (R&D) is financed by the government1, and fewer than 10 percent of researchers are
employed by the private sector.2 Similarly, the academic and public iresearch sectors developed largely
in isolation from the needs of industry. A 1997 evaluation of the PACIME project by international
experts found "the scarce connection with productive sector or societal needs to be a matter of serious
concern," and private sector use of the research infrastructure available at universities and technological
institutes to be insignificant.3 Furthermore, institutions which could serve as bridges between
universities and firms, including the system of SEP-CONACYT science and technology centers, have
operated as academic research centers (in accordance with original objectives) rather than firm-oriented
service organizations. Other bridge institutions have been slow to develop. Since the advent of economic
liberalization, enterprises and researchers across Mexico have begun to work together on problems of
industrial importance. However, Government policy and institutional framework do not yet provide
support to these incipient joint initiatives. One result is that university-based researchers perform only
1.4 percent of R&D funded by the business enterprise sector (second lowest percent among OECD
members).4
Low Public and Private Investment in Science and Technology.
In addition to the low effectiveness of spending on science and technology, overall S&T investment
levels remain low. Although small, open economies (even the most advanced) rely primarily on imported
sources of technology, substantial investment in local human resources and infrastructure is required to
ensure the absorption, adaptation and application of world-class technology. The percentage of GDP
spent on R&D, for example, is the lowest in the OECD (0.31 percent for Mexico versus 0.38 percent for
Turkey), and about one seventh of the OECD average.5 This figure is also less than half of that spent by
non-OECD comparator countries, such as China (0.7 percent), and India (0.8 percent). Mexico has the
lowest concentration of researchers per population of OECD members, with only 6 researchers per
1 0,000 inhabitants vs 48 in Korea and 29 in Poland6, and compares adversely with other developing
countries such as India (4.8).7
Low productivity growthi/investment in firm upgrading
Despite more than a decade of structural reform, productivity growth among Mexican firms has
continued to lag. Total factor productivity in industry grew by only 0.9 percent during 1988-94;
performance in the manufacturing sector was more positive at 2.4 percent for the same period.8
'1995 data. Source: CONACYT.
2 Indicadores de Actividades Cientificas y Tecnol6gicas, CONACYT, 1995.
1997 Evaluations of PACIME by J.M. Rojo, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, A. Kuppermann, CalTech, and
D. Newlon, NSF.
University Research in Transition, OECD: Paris, 1998.
1995 data, source: OECD MSTI Database, November 1997.
6 Ibid.
1992 data cited in Science & Engineering Indicators, National Science Foundation, National Science Board, 1996.
8 Barry Bosworth, 1997, cited in Mexico: Enhancing Factor Productivity Growth. Country Economic
Memorandum, World Bank, draft, 1998.
3



Furthermore, productivity gains have apparently been concentrated among large firms, which have been
far more successful in acquiring and applying new technologies than small and medium enterprises
(SMEs). As a result, large firms have successfully linked with international markets for both goods and
services (including financial markets). Notably, large Mexican firms maintained access to international
financial markets even during the crisis of 1994-51, an indicator of their ability to achieve a certain level
of quality and technology.
In comparison to large firms, small and medium enterprises have faced significant barriers to increased
productivity and quality. Lack of linkage to international and local sources of technology has inhibited
upgrading of capacity. Furthermore, investment in SMEs has been limited largely to family resources -
particularly in the wake of the 1994-5 financial crisis. Causality is difficult to establish, but survey data
indicate that low investment in technology among SMEs is driven by low managerial administrative
capacity and awareness of available alternatives rather than simply a lack of access to capital.2 In
addition, data suggest that relatively small investments in external advisory services and equipment could
have a large impact on productivity among SMEs.
Lack of demand-driven technological support institutions
Mexican policy to support firm-level technological enhancement has been reduced in effectiveness due to
a variety of factors, including: a narrow definition of individual program objectives; inadequate
integration of support services provided by various public and private agencies; a tendency toward
centralized control by federal agencies; and an over-emphasis on creation of the supply of services versus
incentives for articulation of demand.
The CIMO program (Programa de Calidad Integral y Modernizacion - Program for Integral Quality and
Modernization), established under the Mexico Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project,
Loan 3542-ME and administered by the Labor Ministry, has provided the largest window of support for
firm-level technology modernization to date. This decentralized, locally-managed program provides
firm-level training for upgrading administration, quality, and productivity in addition to traditional worker
technical training. Subject to an in-depth evaluation in 1995, this ongoing program channeled resources to
over 30,000 firms and trained over 200,000 workers during 1988-92. The program remains limited,
however, in the extent to which technological upgrading may be supported. Consultancies are limited to
approximately US$2,000 per participating firm, well below levels needed for any work beyond an initial
diagnostic.
Low effectiveness of research programs
The effectiveness of Mexican investment in science and technology research may be viewed as a function
of productivity of researchers (in terms of publications, training of human resources) and relevance of
output to social and economic development. Regarding the first factor, significant improvement in
productivity of Mexican research has occurred in recent years, as evidenced by the 9.6 percent per annum
increase in scientific and technological publications in refereed international journals during 1990-95.3
Despite this impressive growth, productivity remains low in international terms at 0.42 publications per
researcherper annum.4 Human resource formation, a critical output of research projects, also remains
disappointingly low. Mexico trains fewer Ph.D.s per year than comparator countries, granting about 3
Ph.D.s annually in science and engineering per million inhabitants compared to 5 in India, 6 in Brazil,
' Mexico: Financing the Real Sector, World Bank, draft, 1998.
2 Competitividad de la Industria Manufacturera de la Zona Metropolitana de la Ciudad de Mexico: Indicadores de
Calidad y Productividad 1995, CONACYT, 1996.
ISI Science Citation Index, cited in Indicadores de Actividades Cientificas y Tecnologicas, CONACYT, 1997.
Average publications for SNI members during 1993-95, Indicadores de Actividades Cientificas y Tecnol6gicas,
CONACYT, 1997.
4



and 19 in Korea per million inhabitants.1 The second determiner of effectiveness, relevance, also
remains at apparently low levels. Although more difficult to measure than traditional academic output,
available data on placement of students in industry and patents indicate a low level of linkage between
academia and industry.
Fluctuation of Support to Research Programs
Fluctuation in support to scientific and technological research project has been severe, often increasing or
decreasing by as much as 50 percent annually over the past 25 years2:
Annual Fluctuation in Funding LeveIsfor CONACYT Research Projects
1973-94 (in constant pesos)
100
i   0                                                  -  -   --  -    -" r  ,  -     -
E-20                                                     en  0X°-zc,
Research grants tend to be relatively small (averaging less than US$30,000 per annum) and of short
duration (approximately two years on average). These levels are approximately one-third the amount and
one half the duration considered to be most effective for research. Availability of funds has fluctuated
greatly due to high variability of Government budget in real terms, driven in part by macroeconomic
cyclicality.
Such fluctuations are disruptive to the research and training system and introduce unnecessary delay that
drives down researcher productivity. The predecessor Mexico Science and Technology Research Project
(Loan 3475-ME) played an important role in providing stability in support to science during the financial
crisis of 1994-95. CONACYT and the Government support the goal of increased stability of financing in
the future.
Regional Disparity in S&T Capacity
The existing infrastructure for science and technology is located disproportionately in the Mexico City
area. For example, as of 1996 over half of the members of the National System of Researchers were
located in the Federal District. Over 75 percent of all doctoral degrees are awarded by schools in the
Mexico City area (1 994).3
Inadequate Research and Graduate Training Policy at Universities
A growing number of Mexico's largest and most important centers for graduate training have
acknowledged that their educational and research programs need to change in order to better meet the
needs of a modern economy. Students tend to take a very long time to complete their degrees. As new
Ph.D.s become researchers they face unnecessary delays establishing themselves. Salary incentives at the
'Data from 1990 Science and Engineering Indicators, National Science Foundation, 1993.
2 "Proyectos de Investigaci6n Cientificos: Analisis de Apoyos Otorgados," Ciencia y Desarrollo, CONACYT,
Sept/Oct. 1995.
Indicadores de Actividades Cientificas y Tecnol6gicas, CONACYT, 1996 and 1997.
5



national and university level give defacto priority to publishing over training. A series of university-
level reforms are underway or being planned: the National Autonomous University (UNAM) is in the
midst of a restructuring of graduate education policies aimed at shortening the average time spent
obtaining a degree; new mechanisms for evaluation of post-graduate programs have been introduced.
Measures under consideration include the elimination of full Masters requirements (including thesis) as a
prerequisite for doctoral study. The UAM has integrated cooperative programs with potential employers
and has closely tracked graduate employment patterns.
Government Strategy:
CONACYT has requested Bank support to build on the Programa de Ciencia y Tecnologia 1995-2000,
which aims, inter alia, to support the "acquisition of a greater capacity to participate in the worldwide
scientific advance and to transform this knowledge into useful applications, particularly with respect to
technological innovation".
The program includes a series of actions, as follows:
Human Resource Formation - to increase the quality and quantity of high-level professional human
resources available for employment in both the private and public sectors and in research. The challenge
of increasing the quality of graduates in emerging disciplines, such as informatics, is particularly critical
given the rapid increase in student populations.
Science Policy - to increase the quality and quantity of scientific research and development; to promote
linkages with the private sector; to improve policy coordination. Mexico's stated target in the Programa
de Cienciay Tecnologia 1995-2000 of doubling the percentage of GDP spent on R&D over the next
seven years, assuming the CAS's medium growth scenario of 4-5 percent per annum implies nearly
tripling R&D spending by 2005. This target may be difficult to achieve given prevailing budget austerity,
but the government would like to maintain a smooth upward trajectory in R&D investment under any
given economic scenario. Critically, an expanding proportion of the new spending would be expected to
come from the private sector - with government policy intended to catalyze the necessary increase in
private investment.
Technology Policy - to continue and strengthen support for the technological upgrading of Mexican
industry in recognition of the increasing competitive demands resulting from globalization of production.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
The project aims to address elements of each of the main sector issues raised in para. 2, within the limits
of project scope indicated below:
*  Improve performance of system for knowledge and innovation. The project aims to increase the
effectiveness and overall amount of investment in innovation in Mexico via measures directed at
universities, enterprises and bridge institutions. From the university side, the project will (i)
strengthen formation of skilled human resources; and (ii) generate knowledge with potential
application to economic and social development. Enterprise investment in science and technology
will be encouraged through increased involvement at the university level; support for bridge
institutions (restructuring of SEP-CONACYT system, creation of university outreach units); and joint
university-industry projects.
*  Support productivity enhancement through effective technology policy. The project would aim to
improve firm-level technology through a series of measures emphasizing the articulation of demand.
The project would support the strengthening of locally-based, privately-managed agents providing
6



demand-driven services for technological modernization. Under the Technology Modernization and
Joint Industry-Academia Projects sub-components, matching grant schemes would provide direct
(and declining) incentives for firm upgrading. The regional/sectoral technology centers would be
privately owned and operated - supported by a matching credit for initial investment and start-up
costs. Project activities are designed to work closely with existing programs and initiatives underway
in the public and private sectors. For example, the firm-level technology development component
would build on tlhe existing CIMO program by enlarging the continuum of technological services
currently supported under the Labor Ministry program.
The restructuring of nineteen (approximately) public S&T centers (Centros SEP-CONACYT) would
aim to increase the productive impact of the largest concentration of scientific and technological
capacity in Mexico apart from the national university (UNAM). While encouraging the SEP-
CONACYT Centers to rely increasingly on private and competitive funding sources, the project
would support technical assistance and minor infrastructural investments to help the Centers meet the
needs of industry.
*  Improved effectiveness of investment in research and human resource formation. The project would
aim to increase the effectiveness of investment in research projects in terms of efficiency, quality, and
relevance. The project would support incentives for greater productivity while maintaining criteria
for excellence in science. The Science and Technology Research Component and the Industry-
Academia Linkage component are both aimed toward improving the productivity, quality, and
relevance of research and human resource formation.
*  Continuity and consolidation of support to science. The project would support a second generation of
reforms to propel the peer review system created under the Science and Technology Infrastructure
Project, Loan 3475-ME, to a higher level of effectiveness, as discussed above. In addition, the
project would provide important stability beyond the current political cycle in terms of budgetary
support and policy design. The reforms would integrate and consolidate the windows of support to
science and aim to build a strategic role for CONACYT as facilitator of the strategic development of
emerging and existing fields of science.
*  Decentralization of S&T capacity. CONACYT maintains a variety of policies to promote to regional
S&T capacity, actively encouraging development of scientific and technological capacity outside of
the Mexico City metropolitan area. Policies toward this end include a regional network of offices to
promote joint projects with local entrepreneurs and state governments; and the SEP-CONACYT
system of research centers. CONACYT is promoting policies to generate more local economic and
social benefits.
The project would support decentralization in several ways. The system of SEP-CONACYT centers
would be linked (i) to local industry needs and (ii) to universities and technical schools in order to
strengthen the quality of local institutions. The Firm-level Technology Development component
would support a pilot network of agents to address needs of industry in selected cities. The Science
and Technology Research Component also encourages strengthening of regional capabilities through
delegating authority over distribution of research funds to evaluation committees with a regionally
balanced membership. In addition, CONACYT will maintain existing incentives and programs for
decentralization, such as the Regional Research System (Sistema de Investigacion Regional).
* Higher education reform. The project does not attempt to undertake a comprehensive reform of
higher education policy in Mexico where a significant effort is required. The project is designed to
make use of CONACYT's limited influence over the system in order to maximize the impact of
reform in cooperation with parallel efforts underway in other leading institutions, including the
Ministry of Education through the Undersecretary of Higher Education and Scientific Research, the
7



Undersecretary of Technological Education, National Association of Universities and Institutions of
Higher Learning (ANUIES), and the National Researcher System (SNI).
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The activities supported by the Knowledge and Innovation Project form part of a broader set of programs
administered by CONACYT. The Project, including Bank and Government contributions, represents
approximately one-third of projected CONACYT funding during the five-year project implementation
period. The total CONACYT program of support is indicated in the following table.
Estimated CONACYT Budget 1998-20001
(Millions of US$)
Program                                       Amount        % of Total
I. Science                                    1,341             80
Science and Technology Research             359
Academy-Industry Linkage                     IIl
Scholarship/Credits                         591
National Researchers System                 280
II. Technology                                  173             10
III. Others (including international affairs,   171             10
diffusion, administration)
Total                                         1,685            100
The Knowledge and Innovation Project prepared by CONACYT and supported by the World Bank is
described below:
Component                Category      Cost Incl.    % of   Bank-        % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
A. Science and Technology Research                    285.00    43.0     135.00      45.0
Component: to improve the quantity,
quality, and relevance of research and
human capital formation include:
*  Field Development: to stimulate
research in new and lagging fields    Policy/Other
with scientific, economic and/or
social importance.
Research Projects: to promote
quality in research, consolidate and   Policy/Other
improve peer review, and
participatory planning; incentivize
human resources training; and
prioritize timely integration of
young researchers in the system.
*  Institutional strengthening of    Project
Deputy Directorate of Scientific  Management
Research of CONACYT, including
enhanced monitoring, evaluation,
and strategy.
Source: CONACYT
8



B. Industry-University Linkage                          156.44    23.6        62.50      20.8
Component: to support joint action
between universities/ public research
institutes and the private sector.
*  Restructuring of Public S&T       Institutional
Institutes: to increase cost recovery  Strengthening
while improving client orientation
and effectiveness of service provision
in support of industry.
*  Matching Grants for Joint        Policy/Other
Industry-Academia Projects,
allocated under peer review process
with industrial representation.
*  Technical Assistance to          Institutional
Universities to create and strengthen    Strengthening
university outreach offices.
C. Enterprise Technology                                 191.33    28.9       72.50      24.2
Enhancement Component: to directly
impact the productivity and
competitiveness of firms, particularly
small and medium enterprises.
*  Technology Modernization         Policy/Other
Program to support upgrading of
SMEs via matching grant scheme
administered by decentralized
network of locall agents.
*  Private Regional/Sectoral         Institutional
Technology Support Centers to   Strengthening
promote creation of demand-
driven services.
*  Special pilot programs of emerging  Policy
importance, including (a)
Technology Foresight for
consultation between government,
academia and the private sector
and (b) a Strategic Technology
Information Service.
*  Pilot Venture Capital fund,         Other
managed and controlled by private
sector, to provide financing during
pre-commercial stage for
technology-based startup firms.
D. Unallocated                                           30.00     4.5        30.00      10.0
Total           662.77    100.0      300.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Strategic development of Innovation System with participation of Private Sector. The project would
increase involvement of the private sector in science and technology policy, with a view toward
increasing the impact of investment on innovation in the productive sector. The Linkage component is
designed to increase private sector input into S&T policy at the university level via supporting joint
projects. The Field Development program directly involves the private sector (along with academic
9



representatives) in selection of areas to receive support. A new, smaller CONACYT advisory board
would be launched to increase direct communication with industry. The technology enhancement
component would provide support for firms to upgrade technical capacity from most effective supplier of
services - in academia or industry. This component also includes a Technology Foresight pilot exercise
to spur dialogue between the private sector, government and academia on issues of national importance.
Increased productivity of research and development. The project would support actions to increase the
productivity of investment in science and technological research activities in terms of economic/social
impact and human resource formation. Existing science research support would be redesigned to
incentivize greater training of students at both the graduate and undergraduate levels. The Field
Development program would encourage growth of emerging and lagging areas of science of strategic
importance to Mexico's scientific, economic, and social development. These fields would be selected in
consultation with industry and the academic sector. Beyond the immediate gains to relevance from new
fields, the project will signal an important new orientation toward consideration of the social and
economic impact of research. The aggregate result of new fields and performance criteria for continued
support to traditional areas of research will improve productivity by encouraging the connection of
research to social and economic development. Improved monitoring and evaluation under each
component would support strategic management across all S&T support programs.
Consolidation of research funding programs. Under the project, CONACYT's wide array of programs
would be integrated into one main window of support (the Research Projects program). Means of
support, which had been administratively separate programs in the past, will either be eliminated or
consolidated into a smaller number of program, each with resources adequate for its task.
Decentralization of Technology Support Services. The project would support a decentralized system of
private agents to provide firm-level technology services. A matching grant scheme executed at the local
level would support individual and multi-firm projects aimed at technological upgrading. The new
matching grant schemes would establish tight controls on use of funds (e.g., ex-post reimbursement of
firm expenditures on qualified projects) while incentivizing successful outcomes. The decentralized,
private agent model would facilitate direct contact with firm needs at the local level.
Reform of SEP-CONACYT System of S&T Institutes. Based on the pilot restructuring of four centers
supported under a Japanese grant, a phased program of reform of the overall system will be supported by
the project. This system of 27 independent public institutes is coordinated by CONACYT, which would
incentivize greater cost recovery from private contracts and institute a new competitive mechanism for
public funding. CONACYT aims to gradually reduce the direct subsidy to the technology centers by 50
percent during the five-year implementation period of the project, and reallocate these resources to
specific projects through a competitive mechanism. While reducing the direct subsidy, the project would
support technical assistance to increase outreach to industry and improve administration.
University-Industry Linkage. In addition to the linkage of the SEP-CONACYT centers to the needs of
industry, the project would support a set of programs to increase joint activity between academia and the
private sector. At the university level, the project would provide support for strengthening and creation
of outreach units. The matching grant fund for joint projects would provide additional financial support.
3. Benefits and target population:
*  Increased effectiveness of public investment in science and technology to benefit social development
and firm productivity.
*  Facilitation of firm-level technology upgrading and diffusion to increase productivity.
10



* Higher levels of private investment in research and development through increased contact with
academic and research institutions.
*  Increased quality and efficiency in formation of skilled human resources.
* Greater involvement of private firms and academia in science and technology policy-making.
* Increased self-sufficiency and reduced direct subsidy to network of public S&T institutes.
* Improved monitoring and evaluation of science and technology support programs to allow ongoing
improvements in project design during implementation.
* Strengthening of regional S&T institutions to meet local needs
The beneficiaries of the Science and Technology Research Component in the short- and medium-term
will be (a) an estimated 10,000 graduate students; (b) approximately 5,000 researchers; and (c) users of
knowledge created in firms, government, and civil society. The beneficiaries of the Linkage and
Technology Enhancement components would be the participating firms (approximately 4,500), university
researchers (250), and students (500).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented by CONACYT over a period of five years. A new public-private
advisory committee for CONACYT would provide external advice and feedback regarding project
implementation. CONACYT would undertake a regular program of monitoring and evaluation as agreed
with the Bank. In addition, a mid-term review would be conducted by an independent consultant
satisfactory to CONACYT and the Bank. Nacional Financiera, S.N.C., a Government development bank,
will serve as financial agent for the loan and coordinate compliance with all Bank requirements in
accounting, auditing, and financial arrangements. In addition, the Comptroller General (SECODAM),
Finance Ministry (SHCP), and external auditors would monitor project implementation.
CONACYT's Deputy Director for Scientific Research would be encharged with implementation of the
Science and Technology Research Component. The Deputy Director for Coordination of the SEP-
CONACYT System would manage the sub-component aimed at restructuring the system of S&T centers.
The Deputy Director for Technology Modernization would lead implementation of the Joint Industry-
Academia Projects, Technical Assistance to Universities, and the Enterprise Technology Enhancement
Component. A unit under the Deputy Director of Finance would be encharged with coordination of
financial management of the project within CONACYT and would serve as an interface with NAFIN.
Implementation arrangements for the project are further described in Annexes 2 and 6.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Focus on Traditional Science. At time of appraisal of the Mexico Science and Technology Infrastructure
project in 1991, the scientific community in Mexico has suffered more than a decade of severe budgetary
retrenchment and declining enrollment. Given the low capacity of the academic institutions at that time,
the project focused on upgrading the quality and quantity of scientific research. Due in large measure to
the Science and Technology project, the capacity of Mexican academia has risen considerably in a
number of disciplines, making linkage more attractive to the private sector. Furthermore, in the wake of
NAFTA private firms are more keenly aware of the need to upgrade technological capabilities than they
were in 1991. For these reasons, the Knowledge and Innovation project intends to build on the
experience of support for science under the first project while aggressively expanding linkages between
11



academia and industry and supporting the technological development of firms.
Additional Higher Education Reform. A set of critical issues facing higher education in Mexico limits
the functioning of the system for innovation. These issues include a variety of policies affecting quality
of students and teaching. The project addresses the elements of higher education reform which are
viewed as essential to project success, including linkage of research with education; and promotion of
linkages between academia and industry through joint research, development, and technological activity.
Other issues of higher education reform - including admissions policies, financing of education, teacher
qualifications/upgrading, university remuneration, and curricula - would be best addressed via separate
Bank sector work and lending.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                     Project               Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation     Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Scientific Research and        Mexico: Science and                   S                 S
Technology Infrastructure      Technology Infrastructure
Project (3475-ME: closing date
6/30/98)
Brazil: Science and Technology      N/A                N/A
Reform Support Project (4266-
BR: not yet effective)
Brazil: Science Research and         S                  S
Training: (3269-BR: closed
12/31/96)
Industrial Competitiveness     Competitiveness Enhancement         N/A                N/A
Enhancement                    Project (planned: FY99)
Financing of Private Higher    Higher Education Financing          N/A                N/A
Education                      Project (FY98)
Financial Sector Reform        Second Contractual Savings           N/A               N/A
Reform project (FY98); Rural
Finance project (FY99)
ESW - Knowledge Dissemination  Mexico Knowledge
and Application                Opportunities Pilot Study
Enterprise Training and Labor  Labor Market and Productivity        HS                 HS
Market Flexibility             Enhancement Project (3542-ME:
closing date 6/30/98)
Industry/University Linkage,   India: Industrial Development         S                 S
Reform of Technology Institutes   Project (2064-CR: on-going)
Science and Engineering Training  Thailand: University Science
12



and Engineering Project (4805-
TH: on-going)
Korea: Universities Science and     S                S
Technology Research Project
(3203-L: closed 12/31/95)
Other development agencies
IADB Financed:
Research Funding and         Mexico: Science and
Technology Development       Technology Program (804/OC-
ME OOI/SPQ-ME: on-going)
Brazil: Science and Technology
Development Program (BR-
0217 2/91 on-going)
Enterprise Training and Labor  Labor Markets Modernization
Market Flexibility            Project 11 (983/OC-ME)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (H[ighly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
*  Experience under the IDB support to the PROMTEC SME technology support program, and other
programs, indicates the following lessons: (i) directed credit schemes for firm technology upgrading
are likely to be ineffective due to high transactions costs and poor incentive systems which lead to
poor penetration of target market of firms and low repayment rates; (ii) execution should be
encharged to independent, private agents to maximize transparency, efficiency and technical
capability; and (iii) program design should emphasize simplicity of procedures/application
requirements to reduce turn-around time in provision of support.
-  Support to science and technology research should not be fragmented across an excessive number of
programs, or divided into numerous small and short-term awards. A key corollary to an effective
competitive peer review system is (a) providing winners with grants which are large and long enough
to permit significant progress in research; and (b) assuring that previous results of research output are
taken into consideration in future grant decisions.
*  Adequate human resources training is not a guaranteed outcome of funding research projects, even
when these projects involve graduate students. Specific incentives are needed in the system for
researchers and students alike to overcome obstacles to efficient training. Involving young
researchers in human resource training from the earliest possible point in their careers is an important
part of this process.
*  The monitoring and evaluation process must be consequential to sectoral planning and to a
researcher's ability to receive future funding. The PACIME program has moved Mexican science
away from bureaucratic award mechanisms disconnected from outcomes. The new project would
include a series of measures to promote a connection between the impact of projects, the amount of
resources allocated to a discipline, and the ability of excellent researchers to receive sufficient
funding.
*  Due to the fragmentation of institutional responsibility for national science and technology policy,
13



impact of programs must be considered in relation to other public and private initiatives. To this end,
the project would address issues of higher education reform in the context of parallel initiatives in the
National System of Researchers and the Education Ministry. Regarding firm-level technological
capacity, the new scheme would be integrated at the local level with existing programs of the Labor
and Commerce Ministries.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government indicated strong support for the project during the June 1997 Country Strategy and
Implementation Review and has continued to advocate accelerated project preparation. CONACYT has
undertaken a series of initiatives showing their strong interest in the project, including the pilot
restructuring of four SEP-CONACYT centers; the financing of the Mexican Innovation System study
begun in May 1997 with participation of the Bank and OECD; participation in several study tours in
support of project preparation; and in-house preparation of the Project Implementation Plan.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has worked closely with the Government to develop a more demand-driven, interactive role for
the state as facilitator of private sector led activities. In addition to providing financial resources to
ensure continuity in financing during a period of political transition, the Bank has acted as honest broker
in facilitating and sustaining reform in the sector. During the past two years, the Bank has sponsored or
participated in sponsored numerous seminars and had conducted intensive policy discussions with the
Government. In addition, the Bank has encouraged cooperation between various Mexican agencies
responsible for technology and industrial policy and facilitated a top-level dialogue on issues of science
and technology policy with institutions including US NIST, OECD, CSIR of South Africa, and the US
NSF. A considerable body of expertise on the reform of science funding mechanisms and promotion of
peer review-based selection processes has accumulated in the Bank, as a result of large operations not
only in Mexico, but in Brazil, China, and Korea.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis    [X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
Economic analysis for each component is provided in Annex 4. For the Science and Technology
Research component, a brief discussion of cost-benefit analysis (including market fai lures and the
rationale for government intervention) is followed by a more detailed cost effectiveness analysis. The
cost effectiveness analysis focuses on the Project's aim to increase the effectiveness of investment in
science and technology research via greater productivity of researchers and relevance of output. A cost-
benefit analysis is attached for the Industry-University Linkage and Enterprise Technology Enhancement
components, focusing on the economic and financial gains to participants.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
The project does not expand total government expenditure in science and technology and falls well within
the country's ability to finance the sector. Cost recovery is expected under the credit scheme for
Regional/Sectoral Technology Centers and via the restructuring of the SEP-CONACYT system of S&T
centers. Please refer to Annex 5 for greater detail.
Fiscal impact: The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be low, representing a maximum of 0.1
percent of total government expenditure during the implementation period. Because the science research
component replaces support under the Science and Technology Infrastructure Project, which ended in
1997, much of project expenditure does not represent incremental claims on government resources.
CONACYT's budget for research projects is projected to remain constant in dollar terms over the life of
the project. Studies of technology matching grant schemes from other countries indicate a potential
14



positive fiscal impact through increased tax revenues resulting from higher firm profitability.
3. Technical:
The technical design of the project draws on (i) seven years of experience under the development and
implementation of PACIME under the Mexico Science and Technology Infrastructure Project; (ii) major
program of studies of Mexican Innovation System undertaken by CONACYT and the Bank during 1997-
98; (iii) contribution to and assessment of project design by leading academicians and experienced
practitioners. New initiatives under the project (joint university-industry projects, restructuring of SEP-
CONACYT centers, Regional/Sectoral Technology Centers) draw on successful pilots. Design of the
pilot technology modernization matching grant program is based on worldwide best practice and will
benefit from extensive external advisory support and supervision, especially during first year of
operation.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Regarding the science research component, CONACYT has five years of
experience as executor of the Mexico Science and Technology Infrastructure Project (Loan 3475-ME)
which supported similar activities to the proposed loan. Following a slow start, project implementation
recovered rapidly. A number of improvements to project design are proposed under the new loan which
would increase operational efficiency and effectiveness. The Linkage and Technology Enhancement
components are based on successful pilots conducted by CONACYT prior to and during the project
preparation phase (joint university-industry projects, regional/sectoral technology centers, restructuring of
SEP-CONACYT Centers). Regarding the matching grant scheme for enterprise technology
modernization, intensive supervision and external support will be provided.
b. Project management: CONACYT has demonstrated a strong leadership role in the preparation of
the project and has designated experienced and qualified individuals in management positions.
Management has also indicated a strong interest in intensive monitoring and evaluation provisions to
enable improved strategic decision-making with respect to science and technology policy. Nacional
Financiera, financial agent for the project, has extensive experience in implementation of Bank projects.
5. Social:
The project would support research on socially-critical issues including health sciences and would
support the public and private education system in formation of skilled human resources. To ensure
compliance of research with acceptable ethical standards, CONACYT has agreed procedures of
disclosure and review in coordination with researchers and universities.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   [] A   []B    [X] C
The project is expected to have no major environmental impact. The Field Development program would
be expected to fund research in areas identified to be of critical national importance, such as water
resources, pollution control and abatement, and clean technologies. Research supported under the
science research component would include a variety of environmental subjects, such as biodiversity,
ecology, and urban policy. The technology enhancement component would also have a modest positive
environmental impact through introduction of clean technologies to participating enterprises.
7. Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: University- and Institute-based researchers, evaluation
committee members, rectors and directors of institutes, and project administrators were extensively
15



consulted with regard to the performance of the PACIME project and the means of incorporating lessons
learned into the new project.
Private Chambers of Commerce and individual business leaders participated in and were consulted
regarding the design of the Linkage and Technology Enhancement components.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The research component is intended to support a second generation of reforms which build on the peer
review mechanism created under the previous Mexico Science and Technology Infrastructure Project.
The project is intended to reinforce the gains from the first project and provide continuity of reforms into
the next administration beginning in 2000.
The linkage component is aimed at (i) catalyzing and deepening industry-university relationships; and (ii)
creation of public goods through subsidy to basic R&D relevant to industry. Fulfillment of the first
objective would result in self-sustaining activities in the future; achievement of the second objective,
however, would require continued future subsidies to encourage continued public good creation. It is
reasonable to believe that Mexico will continue to support moderate levels of private sector R&D in
accordance with World Trade Organization (WTO) rules.
The technology enhancement component aims to spark the creation of a market for external advisory
services, with the goal of self-sustainability in the long term. The matching grant scheme would support
a maximum of three projects in an amount not exceeding US$50,000 in subsidy per firm. The program is
intended to be a temporary catalyst to spur enterprise investment in external advisory services and
technology upgrading through a direct demonstration effect, not a permanent subsidy to firm
performance. The credit scheme to support creation of small, demand-led regional/sectoral technology
centers is also tailored to ensure an exit mechanism for government support. Repayment of the credit
after a five-year grace period would ensure the need for cost-recovery and attention to firm needs.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1).
RRisk                     sk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
CAS Goal to Bank Mission
Change in administration in 2000 may result in  M     This risk is offset through
high staff turnover in public implementing            mechanisms to increase participation
agency for science component                          of science community and private
sector in program management and
via selective outsourcing of
administration to private entities.
Development Objectives to CAS Goal
Macroeconomic instability reduces private     M       Project assumes base case growth
sector co-investment in project activities and        scenario under CAS. Current
reduces availability of government budgetary          government response to fall in oil
resources                                             prices indicates strong capacity to
manage moderate exogenous shocks
Outputs to Development Objectives
Impact of Science Research component reduced  M       The component oversight committee
by capture of Field Development and                   would adjust budgets of committees
Evaluation committees by interest groups.             based on effectiveness. The project
16



Advisory Council would monitor
overall progress under the project.
Private sector response to incentives in       M       Discussions with private sector
Industry-University Linkage and Technology             leaders indicate strong interest in
Enhancement components does not meet                   project concept. Advisory Council
expectations                                           and Foresight for Innovation pilot
study would aim to increase feedback
from private firms.
Regulatory barriers to linkage at university   M        University-level initiatives currently
level hinder joint activity                            address this issue.
Private sector agents encharged with execution  M      The early pilot phase would be
of pilot Enterprise Technology Upgrading/              dedicated primarily to selection and
Extension program prove ineffective                    development of agent capabilities
with close support from experienced
international practitioners
Lack of finance impedes participation of       N       Technology Modernization Scheme
smaller firms in matching grant schemes                designed to maximize participation of
SMEs through decentralized network
of private agents.
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Controversial ethical issues arising from research projects cannot be avoided with complete certainty
under the project; however, to ensure compliance of research with acceptable ethical standards,
CONACYT has developed procedures of disclosure and review in coordination with researchers and
universities.
G: Main Loan Conditions
Disbursement and Other Conditions.
Deputy Directorate for Scientific Research will be restructured along lines of academic disciplines in
accordance with the Project Implementation Plan no later than July 1, 1999.
The Deputy Directorate for Financial Administration will be strengthened for the purpose of coordinating
all financial reporting requirements under the project.
CONACYT will create a Change Management Unit to support and administer implementation of the
restructuring of the SEP-CONACYT system of research institutes.
The Technology Modernization Program will be implemented on a pilot basis. Prior to initiation of the
full implementation phase, a detailed operation manual would be agreed between CONACYT and the
Bank.
17



A detailed proposal for operation and financing of the Pilot Venture Capital Fund would be agreed
between CONACYT and the Bank prior to disbursement for this activity.
CONACYT shall ensure that all questions of an ethical nature relating to the application process,
approval and execution of research grants shall be investigated and resolved in accordance with
procedures discussed in the PIP.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Da   Crisaful!, Task Team Leader                       Olivier Lafourcade Country Director
,/
Krishna Challa, Acting Sec or Director
18



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Mexico: Knowledge and Innovation Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Objective                                                          (CAS Goal to Bank Mission)
Growth with Stability       Productivity growth          Macroeconomic data from    Risk: Bank base case scenario in
contributing to steady increase   SHCP, Banco de Mexico,  CAS assumes moderate macro
in GDP                      World Bank                 growth in the medium term.
Chief identified risk is stability
of banking system.
Social Development          Research programs support    Government, PAHO, WHO,
development of environmental  World Bank data
and health sciences and
promote education/ formation
of highly-trained human
resources.
Modernization of the State  Increased efficiency in project  Overhead costs to be   Risk: change in administration
administration via outsourcing   monitored for CONACYT  in 2000 may result in high staff
and client-oriented operating    and private agents.   turnover in public implementing
procedures                                             agency for science component.
This risk is offset for technology
development and diffusion
component via outsourcing of
administration to private entity.
WB participation intended to
promote continuity.
Project Development                                                                   (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                                                   CAS Goal)
The Project aims to promote    Periodic studies to identify  INEGI data             Risk: factor exogenous to
the generation, diffusion, and   impact of project activities on                    project (e.g., macro instability,
application of knowledge for    enterprise productivity and  Consultants' reports   effective functioning of financial
innovation in support of    innovation for social                                   sector) reduces private sector
economic and social         applications                                            investment and social investment
development.
Project Outputs                                                                        (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
Support excellence in science    Bibliometric indicators; output  Annual CONACYT reports;   Assumption: Project incentives
and technological research,  indicators (number and value    external studies       result in increased human
increase the availability of  of projects financed, students                        resource formation and relevance
scientific and technological    trained); mix of resources                          of science for social and
human capital, and institute an   between established and                           economic development
integrated strategy for     emerging/ priority disciplines
development of fields of
science of strategic importance
to Mexico's economic and
19



social development
Assumption: Linkage activity
Facilitate linkages between  Increased private investment in  INEGI data, CONACYT    will spur private investment in
private firms, universities and   science and technology;  reports; external studies  technology and reduce isolation
research institutions through    increased joint activity                            of academic community
financial support for joint  between academia and industry
activity and technical
assistance to bridge institutions
Assumption: High quality
Support increased firm-level    Technological upgrading of  Project-specific monitoring    advisory service will have
productivity through provision   participating firms, including    and evaluation program -  significant impact on quantity
of decentralized, demand-    application of MSTQ, to be   indicators include: number of  and quality of firm investment in
driven technological services    determined by base-line and    firms qualifying for  technological upgrading
for small and medium         subsequent studies of project   IS09000, small companies
enterprises and creation of a  impact                     working through tech.
pilot private sector-led venture                          networks on common
capital scheme.                                           problems and others TBD
Project Components                                                                   (Components to Outputs)
Project management:
Creation of Project Advisory    Frequency, attendance, and  Council reports; special  Assumption: Council improves
Council                      duration of meetings, actions    analyses commissioned by    input of private sector into
resulting from meetings      Council                    national Innovation policy
Science and Technology
Research Component:
Assumption: reform of policy
Increased efficiency and     CONACYT data, Survey of      Annual Committee Reports   incentives will impact formation
effectiveness of science     Graduate Scientist and       to Advisory Council        of scientific community
support program via (i) longer,  Engineers, SNI applications,
larger grants to the highest  periodic external evaluations
quality researchers; (ii)
consolidated peer review
procedures, greater direct input
of committees and scientific
community into S&T policy;
(iii) increased number of
Ph.D.s and Master's students
receiving training as part of
projects; and (iv) decreased
time for young researcher to
become full, contributing
members of their fields
Increase in research and     Field Development Area      Annual Field Development    Risk: Selection process becomes
development capacity in fields   Director reports and     Directors report to the    captured by interest groups
of immediate social and     independent evaluation        Advisory Council
economic priority
Industry-University Linkage
Component:
Restructuring of SEP-        Financial statements of      Annual report of Technical    Risk: regulatory reform to
CONACYT system of public    participating centers; annual    Committee of Linkage    enable flexibility and
S&T institutes to increase (i)    monitoring/evaluation of  Component                decentralized management of
self-financing and (ii) service    progress in implementation of                     centers is not implemented.
20



to industry                   business plans
Industry-led joint projects with  Firm investment in S&T;  Study of program impact on   Assumption: current wave of
universities to increase firm  demand for participation in  firm investment in S&T and   publicity and expressed interest
investment in S&T and        program; outputs (papers,     human resource formation     in joint activity will result in
increase effectiveness of    patents, joint degree programs,                            commitment to results in subset
educational/research          students hired by firm)                                   of cases
institutions                 resulting from collaboration
Enterprise Technology
Enhancement Component:
Pilot Enterprise Technology   Impact on firm use of external   External longitudinal studies   Risk: private sector agents prove
Upgrading/ Extension Program   consultants (initiation,    of program impact            ineffective at execution; lack of
to (i) catalyze development of   deepening of relationship);                           finance impedes firm
market for external consulting   impact on firm productivity                            participation in matching grant
services through demonstration                                                          scheme
effect; (ii) directly impact
productivity of participating
firms
Regional/Sectoral Technology   Annual evaluation of centers to  Annual report of Technical    Risk: demand from sectorally-
Centers to support creation of   assess progress in meeting  Committee of Technology    and regionally-based groups of
demand-led services, including  business plans (financial and    Component              investors is less than expected
MSTQ                          operational indicators); annual                           due to joint action problems and
evaluation of CONACYT                                     conflicts of interest
management
Foresight for Innovation     Number of participants in     Foresight studies and follow-  Assumption: rolling sectoral
program to increase           sectoral Foresight panels    up reports.                  approach to Foresight will
participation of private sector                                                        reduce politicization of process
in S&T policy                                                                           and facilitate results
Seed Capital for Innovation to   Quantity and value of     Annual report of private fund  Risk: Insufficient deal flow
provide financing for start-up    investments placed;      management group; external  reduces investment opportunities
technology-based enterprises    compliance with fund       monitoring and evaluation
investment guidelines
21



Annex 2
Knowledge and Innovation Project
Project Description
Overall Project Management
The project would be executed by the National Science and Technology Council (CONACYT -
Consejo Nacional de Cienciay Tecnologia). The Director General of CONACYT will be the principal
counterpart responsible for overall project implementation and for interaction with the Bank on matters of
policy. The responsibility for project administration will be shared by the Deputy Directors for Science
and Technology Policy, for Scientific Investigation, for Directed Research, for Technology
Development, and for the SEP-CONACYT system of centers. The project will be implemented
according to the Project Implementation Plan, which forms part of the Loan Agreement. The Deputy
Director for Science and Technology Policy will be the chief liaison with the Bank for implementation
matters. The responsibilities of the other Deputy Directors are described in the sections for the
corresponding components.
Project Advisory Council
A high level Advisory Council would provide external advice and feedback on the design and
implementation of the project. The council would provide strategic input for CONACYT to assess the
performance of the project and to adapt (within the limits specified by the PIP) project goals and
procedures accordingly.
The Council would be comprised of approximately 10 highly distinguished individuals from
academia and the private and public sectors. All members, including approximately 2 international
representatives, should be eminent in their fields and have broad experience in science and technology.
The Director General of CONACYT would select and chair the council, which would also advise
CONACYT on non-project related activities.
The Council would meet on average once a year for 4-5 days (during 1998 the Council would be
expected to meet twice due to project start-up). The agenda would be determined in advance by the chair
and circulated substantially prior to the meetings.
Project Component 1 - US$ 285.00 million
The Science and Technology Research Component
The objective of this component is to improve the quality, efficiency, and relevance of S&T
research in Mexico. Improvements with respect to quality will be achieved through the consolidation and
expansion of the peer-review evaluation system. Improvements with respect to efficiency and quality
will come through decentralization of decision-making and research, improved financial and procurement
arrangements, and better incentives for human resource formation in research projects. Improvements
with respect to relevance will come partially through the identification and promotion of new fields of
investigation of high social and economic priority to Mexico. Stronger peer review and participatory
planning are also expected to contribute improvements in relevance and quantity of S&T research. The
22



President's Science Adviisory Council (CCC) and the Mexican Academy of Sciences would participate
along with other representatives of the scientific community at various levels of the management of the
component, including committees for monitoring and evaluation.
The component will have three subcomponents: (a) Support to Research Projects; (b) Field
Development; and (c) Special Programs.
Support for Research Projects
This subcomponent will consist of competitive, peer-evaluated awards for science and
technology research projects. This subcomponent will be a continuation of PACIME program, with some
important modifications. The committee structure will be maintained, with approximately ten evaluation
committees representing the traditional disciplines. The PACIME structure has been modified to include
(a) larger, longer duration grants; (b) incentives to encourage intensive human resource training; (c)
increased number and quality of ad hoc peer reviewers per proposal, including international peer
reviewers; and (d) increased use and improved quality of peer monitoring and evaluation, including site
visits. The evaluation committees will publish Requests-for-Proposals (RFP) that state the number and
types of proposals they intend for a given year.
The individual RFPs will reserve a specified amount of the resources for full proposals from
young researchers. Grants for full proposals would be the same and duration as the other Research
Projects grants, and are intended to give the best young researchers a chance to delve immediately into
investigation and human resources training. It is suggested this type of grant be provided to no less than
15 percent and no greater than 30 percent of the new researchers entering any given field. Researchers
would be eligible to apply for these grants if: (a) they have not reached their 36th birthday by the time of
application (38th for those outside Mexico City); (b) they have received Ph.D.s in the field; (c) they will
be employed as full-time researchers at a research institutions by the time the grant becomes effective
(within one year of award notification). The Young Researchers Program will also provide other, less
selective instruments of support to new Ph.D.s in the process of establishing themselves as researchers.
These are: (a) post-doctoral fellowships; (b) repatriation and retention grants; (c) scientific initiation
grants (for basic equipment).
Field Development
The objective of this subcomponent is to support scientific and technological research in areas of
high scientific, economic and/or social relevance to Mexico. The subcomponent will support those areas
which have not been able to develop under the traditional research support structure. Generally, these
have been areas that are rnulti-disciplinary and that have strong links with non-academic partners.
The goal will be to accelerate development of these areas through (a) the promotional activities of
an "area director"; these will include stimulating the formation of new groups, new networks, and new
academic programs; (b) direct support for research projects. The selection process for Field
Development projects will be overseen by the area director, under the guidance of a technical advisory
committee.
Fields to be funded will be selected through a two stage process. A selection committee, whose
members represents the scientific community, the private sector and civil society, will issue a broad call
for possible areas to receive funding. From this first round, the committee will select a small number (six
to twelve) of Field Development proposals to be evaluated in detail by the subcommittees. Each
23



respective subcommittee, to be composed of a distinguished member of the scientific community, two
SNI level two researchers, and one foreign expert, will investigate the area and may submit full proposals
for consideration. The selection committee will then choose among these (one to three field per year) to
receive funding. The terms of reference for the committees and the basic qualification criteria for
potential fields are described in the Project Implementation Plan. As a pilot, CONACYT will begin in
1998 a new field in the area of Informatics and Computer Science. This field has been selected outside of
the above-described process due to its broad applicability to sciences and private sector needs.
Special Programs
The project will support a series of special programs to improve (i) monitoring and evaluation
and (ii) institutional capacity of CONACYT as executing agent for the component.
Monitoring and evaluation in this component will consist of three main parts: (a) routine project
evaluation; (b) the annual evaluation of the discipline, led by the evaluation committee; (c) special studies
which focus on the sector as a whole. As a basic principle, data collected will be used as a consequential
input in future policy or funding decision. This contrasts with the current situation, in which the
emphasis is on the collection of descriptive statistical data. Very little qualitative evaluation or use of the
data for policy purposes takes place. With respect to project evaluation, use of peer evaluators
(especially for the Young Research Program) and site visits will increase. Projects will be evaluated not
only on the quality of the scientific or technological output but on its relevance, the nature and extent of
human resources training, linkages of the researcher and the research to the final user community, and the
administrative efficiency of the project. The final report will be condensed into a short summary that will
become a mandatory part of all future grant applications. Committees will place increasing emphasis on
past performance in consideration of grant selection. This more in-depth project evaluation will feed into
an annual review of each discipline, to be undertaken by each evaluation committee. Each committee
will submit a report to CONACYT including both quantitative descriptive statistics and qualitative
evaluation by peers. The reports will also contain the committee judgments on the state of the discipline,
the performance of the researchers within it (not limited to those receiving CONACYT support), and the
future needs. This report will also contain the committee budget allocation request for the upcoming
year. CONACYT may adjust allocation levels among the committees based on evidence of superior
performance and/or need of a given discipline (as spelled out in the annual report). Finally, a series of
periodic special studies will be undertaken to provide the timely data and information necessary for good
policymaking. Some of these studies are specified in the PIP.
In addition, a series of special studies will be undertaken to provide the timely data and
information necessary for good policymaking. Among these studies will be a regular, comprehensive,
and longitudinal survey of graduate scientists and engineers. This survey would become a routine part of
monitoring and evaluation for CONACYT. It would focus on, inter alia, (a) the time-to-completion of
degree; (b) length of time from graduation to first job offer; (c) number of offers within field of
specialty; (d) employment and salary history for two or more years after graduation. Technical
assistance will be provided to CONACYT for the design and execution of this survey. Another required
study will investigate, both qualitatively and quantitatively, the role of CONACYT within overall support
to scientific and technological research in Mexico. A third study will investigate, again both qualitatively
and quantitatively, the uses of Mexican research output. Other studies will be commissioned by the
project advisory council as deemed necessary.
Finally, the project will support strengthening of CONACYT's Deputy Directorate for Science
Research via training, design and installation of information systems, and consultants.
24



Project Component 2 - US$ 156.44 million
Industry-Academia Linkage component
This component aims to (i) increase enterprise investment in science and technology through
strengthening of relationships with academic and research institutions; (ii) improve the impact of
academic institutions on firm-level innovation and productivity through training of skilled human
resources, service provision, and R&D; and (iii) promote the creation of public goods through spillover
effect of increased investment in R&D. The component focuses on creation and strengthening of bridge
institutions which facilitate the interaction of the academic and private sectors.
The component would be comprised of three subcomponents. (1) Public sector S&T institutes,
which have the potential to serve as important bridge agents, would be subjected to an intensive
restructuring program to increase service to industry. (II) At the university level, technical assistance will
be provided for creation/strengthening of outreach centers. (III) A matching grant scheme would support
industry-led joint projects with academic institutions.
Restructuring of Public S&T Institutes. A program to increase self-financing of the system of SEP-
CONACYT research centers would be supported under the project. Approximately 19 out of a system-
wide total of 27 public S&T centers (7 technology, 12 science, and 9 social science institutes) would be
subjected to a comprehensive process to increase self-financing and industrial relevance. Under a
phased, five-year implementation period, government direct subsidies in participating centers would be
progressively reduced to 50 percent of current levels in real terms. In place of the direct subsidies, the
centers would compete for CONACYT financing of pre-competitive research projects some of which will
be in collaboration with private sector partners. In addition, regulatory reform would give the centers
increased flexibility and accountability in management; new investments would be financed through a
competitive, project-based fund; new management information systems would be installed; and technical
assistance would support the conversion process.
A pilot restructuring program of four technology institutes, supported by a Japanese Grant, was
initiated in November 1997. An intensive period of training, support consultancy, and business plan
development ensued. Three top managers of each pilot center, plus the national coordinator of the SEP-
CONACYT system participated in a study tour to similar centers in four European countries undergoing a
similar restructuring process. The draft business plans for the pilot centers were delivered to the Bank in
March 1998 outlining strategies in marketing, human resource management, financial management,
expansion of knowledge base, information systems, and other management issues.
The project would support a business planning process for each of the 15 remaining centers
(approximately) to be followed by implementation of the plans for restructuring. The activities would
include (i) staff and management training; (ii) installation of management information systems; and (iii) a
one-time contribution to a fund to support competitive projects cofinanced by the private sector.
Joint Industry-Academic Projects: In order to catalyze the creation of linkages between universities and
private enterprises, the project would support joint activities in applied research; product and process
design, development and improvement; and technology adaptation and diffusion. The projects would be
supported by a matching grant managed by the participating enterprise to ensure leadership from the
private sector and prioritization of private sector needs. Firms would contribute 50 percent of the direct
costs of the projects (at least 10 percent of which must be in the form of cash deposited in a special trust
25



fund) with the CONACYT/World Bank financing the remaining half. A cap of US$300,000 in
CONACYT support would apply to each project, although average projects are expected to be smaller.
Universities would contribute staff salaries, student assistants, and use of facilities.
The selection process would consist of an Operational Committee including strong representation from
the private sector, which would approve all projects with CONACYT support in excess of US$50,000.
Projects under this amount would be approved by an internal CONACYT technical committee with
support from external expert evaluations. A Consultative Committee would review implementation
progress and overall policy of the overall Industry-Academia Linkage and Enterprise Technology
Enhancement Components. Proposals from industry would be accepted year-round, with a target
approval time of 1-3 months. Criteria for selection would be (i) the effect of project on creating or
deepening a formal relationship between the participating firm and university(ies); (ii) expected impact
on firm productivity and competitiveness. The aim is to avoid academically-driven, technology push
projects which do not serve the needs of industry. A full financial and technical evaluation would be
required for review.
Participating firms would provide interim progress reports to CONACYT, with random ex-post audits to
be performed by CONACYT on an estimated 5% of projects. An external evaluation, including
longitudinal surveys, would be conducted to assess economic impact.
Promotion of the scheme would be addressed via (i) advertising; (ii) private agents; (iii) linkage seminars
and other mechanisms as needed.
Technical Assistance to Universities. Support would be given to create and strengthen university
outreach units. This activity would be promoted via direct efforts of CONACYT staff, media, and a
series of seminars and would be financed jointly by CONACYT and participating universities.
Project Component 3 - US$ 191.33 million
Enterprise Technology Enhancement Component
The component aims to directly impact the productivity and competitiveness of firms, particularly small
and medium enterprises. Four activities would be supported: (i) firm-level technology
modernization/extension program based on decentralized network of local agents supported by matching
grant scheme; (ii) regional/sectoral technology centers, privately-owned and operated, supported by a
credit scheme; (iii) special pilot studies to address emerging policy priorities identified during
implementation of project; and (iv) a pilot venture capital fund with private management and majority
ownership.
Technology Modernization Program. The scheme would aim to (i) support technology modernization
among SMEs and (ii) create an active market in technology services. The economic rationale for the
program is to address the information asymmetry impeding use of external advisory services to solve
problems and facilitate growth. The program is demand-led: the matching grant would provide
encouragement for firms to obtain specialist external support. Firms would benefit through direct
participation and through the demonstration effect of successful participants.
The program would provide support for firms to make use of approved consultants for
technology firm modernization projects. This support would primarily be in the form of a grant to cover
50 percent of the cost of the consultancy support, up to a maximum amount per firm of US$50,000 over
26



the duration of the Program. Firms would be required to undertake an initial diagnosis - the cost of
which will also attract a 50 percent grant - in order to identify accurately priority areas for attention in
subsequent consultancy projects. Where appropriate, firms would also receive assistance to prepare terms
of reference for and expected outputs for the project, and to identify a suitable consultant. The grant
would be paid, on a reimbursement basis, on satisfactory completion of the project (based on proof of
payment of the consultant and of delivery of the defined outputs).
The Program will be administered by private sector Agents, acting on behalf of CONACYT,
which will act as the main contact point with firms and consultants. Agents will be paid a fee based on the
number and scale of projects arranged and grant disbursed.
All types of technology upgrading activities qualify under the program, including: diagnosis;
productivity improvement; product design; quality systems; reduction of response times; cost reduction;
introduction of new process and product technologies; design and introduction of management and
financial information systems; technology implications of fashion trends; benchmarking and best
practice; and technical training in any of the above areas.
Overall responsibility for management of the Program will rest with the Consultative Committee
of the Technology and Industry-University Linkage Components. Other than during the initial period of
operation (defined below) only this Committee will have the authority to change the operating rules or
procedures of the Program, decide on appointment of Agents, revise Agents remuneration, and make
decisions in the event of disputes between Agents, firms or consultants.
Start-up period. To ensure that the Program operates efficiently and effectively, a pilot period will be
undertaken to enable CONACYT to recruit and train staff to work on the program, to develop
management tools, and test implementation arrangements. Provisions will include financial and
management information systems; model agreements between CONACYT and the Agents, Agents and
firms, and firms and consultants; criteria for registration of consultants; and publicity and explanatory
material for the Progran. Completion of the pilot phase, including agreement on an Operation Manual,
will be a condition for disbursement for the full-scale Program under the Bank loan.
In addition, during the first year of operation (including the pilot) a small Technical Group
comprising two senior CONACYT managers and two people nominated by World Bank will meet at least
quarterly to review the setting up and operation of the Program and to make such adjustments to the
operating procedures as are necessary in the light of experience to ensure the efficient operation of the
Program.
Designated staff in CONACYT, overseen by the Consultative Committee, will maintain close
contact with the Agents, particularly during the pilot phase, to ensure they understand and correctly
implement all aspects of the Program. Subsequent supervision arrangements are as described below.
Role ofAgents. Agents must respond positively to all inquiries, and not restrict access to firms in specific
sectors or locations, whatever the Agent's own focus. The main responsibilities of the Agents will be to:
*  market the scheme
*  participate in development of diagnostic tools in collaboration with CONACYT, consultants, other
Agents and international advisers
*  arrange a business diagnosis to identify support requirements
*  support development and maintenance of a register of consultants by CONACYT
27



*  provide assistance to firms to identify a suitable consultant, prepare terms of reference, specify
required outputs from projects, and complete application procedures
*  monitor progress on projects
*  check satisfactory completion of projects, including review of defined outputs and proof of payment
of consultant
*  submit project completion details to CONACYT to trigger reimbursement of firms
*  provide CONACYT with regular monitoring reports and access individual projects and project files
as required.
*  arrange delivery of training courses for consultants (see section on training for consultants) in
consulting skills such as diagnostic techniques and project management, and to ensure consultants are
fully aware of all CONACYT Programs and other relevant Government schemes.
Registration of consultants. Simple criteria for the registration of consultants will be developed by
CONACYT before launch of the Program. Only individuals will be able to register, whether or not they
are members of a consultancy firm (this is to avoid a registered firm assigning inexperienced staff to a
project). Consultants may be registered to undertake one or more of the qualifying activities depending
on their qualifications and experience. Actual registration will be undertaken by Agents, but subject to
supervision by CONACYT to avoid unfair or restrictive practices. CONACYT will also develop a central
computerized register of consultants, based on information supplied by Agents, which can be accessed by
all Agents and firms. The register of consultants should include feedback from firms on their
performance on specific projects.
For consultants wishing to undertake diagnosis there will be a requirement to undergo training in
the use of diagnostic tool(s). People wishing to register as consultants with adequate qualifications but
little or no previous consulting experience will be required to undergo consultancy training arranged by
the Agent.
Training of consultants. Agents will arrange delivery of training courses for consultants to be provided
by appropriately qualified trainers. Courses should cover consulting skills such as diagnostic techniques
and project management, and information on CONACYT Programs and other Government schemes
which may be relevant to firms.
Co-ordination with other Government schemes. The Agents will be encouraged to facilitate access to the
full range of service providers and Government support Programs, including the CIMO Program and
other support services offered by SECOFI, NAFIN and Bancomext.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Due to the innovative nature of this scheme, an extensive program of
external monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken. The Operational Committee would monitor the
performance of the agents through periodic reporting and unscheduled in situ visits. In addition, an
external economic evaluation of the program experience would be undertaken.
Regional/Sector Technology Centers. This sub-component would aim to improve local access to
technology services, primarily for SMEs, through selective support to private centers demonstrating clear
evidence of demand. Support would be provided to establish new centers or expand and improve existing
ones through the implementation of specific projects. Proposals for new centers would be received from
consortia of at least three private firms/organizations (e.g., chambers of commerce, universities).
Critically, centers would respond to demand from firms - rather than being driven by government funding
preferences. Therefore, the range of services provided by the centers could vary considerably and
28



include the following areas:
* technology diffusion and adaptation
* process development and improvement
* product design and improvement
* technology transfer
* testing and calibration services
* specialist technical information
* advanced technical training (including programs developed jointly with a university)
To ensure close attention to firm needs and avoid overinvestment in facilities and infrastructure,
CONACYT investment would finance up to 50 percent of total project costs with a cap of US$750,000.
Funds would be on-lent by CONACYT at a rate greater or equal to UDI 1 plus 100 basis points.
Projects would be selected through a competitive process managed by CONACYT involving a three-
stage process including feasibility studies and review by the Technical Committee of the Industry-
University Linkage component. Criteria for selection include the likelihood sustainability/self-financing
in medium-term; realism of income and expenditure forecasts; strength of demand for services, potential
impact on firm competitiveness, quality of management and leadership of center; and the proportion of
total investment contributed by committed private funding.
CONACYT would monitor use of funds by the centers and overall implementation of the business plans
through periodic reporting requirements and site visits by staff and consultants. CONACYT would
conduct an annual evaluation of program performance for Bank review; a full external evaluation would
be conducted during the third year of operation.
Special pilot studies. The project would support emerging policy priorities of CONACYT as identified
during the implementation period. Two pilots were identified at the time of project appraisal, as
discussed below:
(a)    Foresight for Innovation. This sub-component would serve to increase public-private
cooperation in formation of science and technology policy with the objective to:
Build awareness of the need for restructuring and the development of linkages to the global
innovation system among all relevant stakeholders -- private enterprises, government, and civil society at
large
Generate consensus and a shared understanding among private and public sectors of the role of
technologies in relation to innovation, competitiveness and development.
Facilitate networking and alliances between multinational firms and national firms, government,
and academia which will produce substantive changes in policy and strategy
Due to the high degree of political sensitivity, and corresponding risks, CONACYT has opted for a
phased approach which would initiate the foresight process in several selected sectors of the economy, as
described below:
Pre-Foresight Phase. Private-public committee. Formation of an initial private-public committee which
would catalyze a broader public-private discussion on the benefits and scope of the technology foresight
Unidad de Inversion - unit of exchange indexed to inflation.
29



exercise in Mexico. The committee would prepare and endorse a set of options for the Mexican
technology foresight
Workshops to raise awareness and choose options, convened by the private-public committee,
which would serve three purposes:
Increasing awareness of the private sector through sharing of international experiences of
technology foresight exercises in the US, Japan, UK, Germany and elsewhere
Identification of initial pilot areas
*      Self-selection of champions -- highly committed individuals who would lead the process
Preparation of the pilots. At this stage one should note the critical role of highly committed
"champions", the importance of involving relatively young people (30-40 years of age), the
organizational structure of the process (e.g. formation of the steering committee), and selection of
specific sectors.
Main Foresight Phase. Implementation of the pilots. The main foresight stage involves intensive
communication process between private sector, academic and government stakeholders. It may take a
variety of organizational forms: surveys, panels of experts, workshops and conferences. Organization
and administration of this phase may need to be subcontracted to ensure logistical efficiency.
Post-Foresight Phase. During the post-foresight stage the results and lessons from the pilot will be
diffused among participants and relevant groups.
(b)    Strategic-Technology Information System. Given the identified inefficiencies in the flow of
information (including markets, technologies, suppliers) to SMEs in Mexico and the potential economic
benefits from increased diffusion, a study to assess the options for spurring the development of the
market for private information services.
Pilot Venture Capital fund. The fund aims to fill a distinct gap in the financial sector in Mexico: equity
investment in start-up, technology based enterprises. The fund would be managed by experienced private
venture capitalists, with majority ownership and control by private investors. The fund would finance
technology-based start-up enterprises identified through CONACYT's technology development activities
and from external sources. The full legal and operational analysis for the fund has been completed by
CONACYT's advisers; however, the private fund managers and investors had not yet been identified at
the time of pre-appraisal. When planning is complete, the Bank would provide a "no objection" prior to
support of the fund under the Project.
30



Annex 3
Knowledge and Innovation Project
Estimated Project Costs
Millions of US$
Local       Foreign       Total
Science and Technology Research
Research                                         132.85        110.00      242.85
Field Development                                 17.15         15.00       32.15
Policy/Project Management                          4.00          6.00       10.00
Total                                           154.00        131.00      285.00
Industry-University Linkage
Centros SEP-CONACYT                               40.00         26.00       66.00
Joint Projects                                    39.74         31.50       71.24
Institutional Strengthening of Universities       14.20          5.00       19.20
Total                                            93.94         62.50      156.44
Enterprise Technology Enhancement
Technology Modemization                           37.49         30.00       67.49
Regional/Sectoral Technology Centers              35.84         35.00       70.84
Special Pilot Programs                             0.50          2.50        3.00
Venture Capital                                   45.00          5.00       50.00
Total                                           118.83         72.50      191.33
Total Allocated Cost                              366.77        266.00      632.77
Unallocated                                                      30.00       30.00
Total Project Cost                                366.77        296.00      662.77
Project Financing by Component
Component                         Government    Bank      Private Sector     Total
Science and Technology Research        150.00     135.00           -        285.00
Industry-University Linkage            48.70       62.50         45.24      156.44
Enterprise Technology Enhancement       10.57      72.50        108.26      191.33
Total Allocated                       209.27      270.00        153.50      632.77
Unallocated                                        30.00           -         30.00
Total                                 209.27      300.00        153.50      662.77
31



Annex 4
Mexico Knowledge and Innovation Project
Economic Analysis
Scientific and Technological Research Component
Cost Benefit Discussion
The arguments have been made that CONACYT subsidies (and World Bank lending) are justified by a number
of factors, such as:
*  the public good nature of research outputs such as certain kinds of knowledge and human resources
(including the long term wait for benefits from fundamental research, the high risk of individual research
investments, the lack of clear causal linkages between the research and the benefits);
*  the underinvestment in research by the private sector due to institutional failures and the need to subsidize
research while strengthening the institutions;
a non-linearities in the system, which in some cases result in low returns for initial research investments, and
require governmental pump priming to reach rates of return that will justify private investment;
* the role of the government as consumer of research products in many areas such as health and environment.
In fact, the difficulty of quantifying benefits is an underlying root of the argument for government subsidies of
research. It is therefore extremely difficult to do a normal cost-benefit study for the S&T Research Component
of the Project (or indeed for the project as a whole.)
However, it is argued that the S&T research component funds only projects which independent peer reviewers
feel expected benefits exceed expected costs. Moreover, area Advisory Committees seek to balance the
portfolios so that synergies occur from the portfolio, and the expected benefits from the portfolio of projects
exceeds the sum of the benefits from the individual projects while the costs are just the sum of the individual
project costs. Similarly, CONACYT in the KIP project is seeking to achieve indirect benefits in building
scientific capacity and reforming the sector that will be external to the benefits seen in evaluating individual
proposals. Thus if the benefits of the portfolio exceed the sum of the benefits of the individual research
projects, and each of the projects is judged cost-beneficial in itself, the portfolio should pass the cost-benefit
test.
The key to this argument lies in the peer review process. In general all proposals received are graded by the
Advisory Committee, taking into account the reviews of ad hoc peer reviewers selected for the individual
proposals. Only proposals judged good or excellent are funded, and increasingly "good" proposals can not be
funded due to funding limitations. In the early years of the PACIME project, available funds were not used as
committees decided that none of the unfunded proposals had sufficient expected benefits to justify their budgets.
Discussion with the committees suggest that while they follow in general the published proposal evaluation
criteria, they consciously take into account such factors as the likelihood that the project will achieve its stated
objectives, the likelihood that its actual achievements will be socially or economically important to Mexico, as
well as to the scientific and technological community in general, the degree to which educational and training
benefits are to be expected from the project. Committees make such judgments based on broad scientific and
technological expertise of the panelists, including understanding of the dynamics of the specific disciplines in
32



which the investigators are proposing to work. The successful introduction of open peer review processes for
these decisions was one of the major accomplishments of the PACIME project, and Mexico now is among the
countries funding the large majority of government supported science which feel that peer review is the
appropriate way to make cost-benefits judgments on, individual research proposals.
The KIP program is seeking to improve the effectiveness of the qualitative cost-benefit analysis which is
intrinsic to the research grants project. It is doing so by increasing the responsibility of the Advisory
Committees and of science managers in making portfolio composition decisions, in the Field Development
program making them more proactive in seeking network solutions which expand research synergies, and
making allocation of resouirces among Committee programs competitive based on the cost-benefit estimates of
the alternative committee uses of the funds.
Cost-Effectiveness Assessment
Introduction
Cost-Effectiveness analysis seeks to illuminate the economic advantages and disadvantages of alternatives
available to a project without seeking to fully quantify project benefits. Most frequently cost-effectiveness
analysis focuses on least cost alternatives to accomplish a specified purpose. Less frequently, but equally
validly, cost effectiveness analysis may focus on maximizing the impact available with a given level of
resources. This latter approach is used in the following assessment.
In Mexico, central funding for scientific and technological research administered by CONACYT is defined
through the national science and technology plan, and the annual budget process. The Gross Investment in
R&D is not defined by quantifying the need for knowledge and budgeting to meet that need, but by a complex
professional and political process which establishes budget levels. Of course all nations budget their national
governmental support for research in this way, not just Mexico. Thus the most substantive issue is how to
maximize the value to Mexico of the resources allocated to CONACYT for support of scientific and
technological research.
In the following assessment two alternatives are considered:
* the PACIME grants program approach developed and used successfully in the prior World Bank project,
and
* the KIP grants program approach, which represents a modification of the system in use for the past eight
years, with modifications based on lessons learned from the PACIME project.
It should be noted that there has been no attempt to apply cost-effectiveness analysis to select the most effective
set of possible alternative sets of lessons learned from PACIME. This would not have been possible given the
heuristic nature of the reform planning.
It is important to be clear as to what is being assessed. In Mexico, the scientific and technological research
system faces considerable instability, due to changing economic, social and political factors. In so far as the
conditions faced by the research system are different in the period 1998 to 2002 than they were from 1991 to
1997, the impact of the projects may be quite different. This cost-effectiveness assessment does not attempt to
deal with changes in impact due to such factors. Similarly, there is a worldwide increase in the productivity of
scientific and technological research due to the accretion of knowledge and the improvement of scientific
instruments and information technology. While this trend should improve the impact of KIP versus PACIME, it
is not considered in this assessment.
33



The assessment focuses only on the incremental impact that is to be expected by the substitution of improved
project procedures as compared with the impact if the PACIME procedures were used in KIP. Note that the
assessment focuses primarily on the direct output of the S&T Research component of the KIP, emphasizing the
value to the country of research services. The subcomponent can also be considered as having indirect
objectives in building research capacity and reforming the research system. To the extent that the project seeks
to improve institutions as the participants in the system "learn by doing", the following comments would apply
to either construct.
A multiplicative function is used for the impact of the project, of the form:
I= R * P (E,Q) * S
Where:
I is the overall impact of the component;
S is the size of the program;
P is the productivity of the researchers in use of program resources, which is a function of the efficiency
of use of resources, and the quality of the work done; and
R is what the CONACYT staff term pertinencia or relevance.
This last term is worthy of some explanation. Take a business enterprise as an example. Suppose that a
company has the same production budget in 1998 and 1999. In each year it produces the same products. In
1999, the capital and labor cost per unit production in each product is lower than in 1998, and in each case the
quality of the goods produced is better in 1999 than in 1998. Is the business necessarily more successful in
1999 than 1998? Clearly not, if the product mix is less relevant to the market faced by the company in 1999
than it was in 1998. (The Pan American Health Organization has used a factor terms "transcendencia" in health
planning, to deal with these issues of importance that go beyond efficiency and quality.)
Efficiency:
Room for Improvement: There appears to be considerable room to improve efficiency of researchers funded by
CONACYT. It has been suggested that as much as one-third of their working time may be spent in the proposal
process and in administrative reporting on grants. Time taken from research for procurement of equipment and
project management also exceed requirements imposed by funding organizations in other countries. Research is
delayed to late arrival of instruments funded by CONACYT grants, due in part to procedural requirements
which lengthen the acquisition process. Researchers in some cases complain that their research efficiency is
compromised by "red tape" imposed by the CONACYT grants which requires them to be less than optimal
equipment for their needs. Lack of fungibility of research funds from different sources causes inefficiency in
the ways research teams are configured and the configuration modified to meet changing research
circumstances.
Young researchers in Mexico frequently face a period of very low scientific productivity lasting for several
years after they receive their Ph.D.s before they receive their first research grants. Lacking resources to buy
facilities and pay operating costs of their research, they will normally be in something of a holding pattern after
their CONACYT scholarship grant/loans end until their first research grants are signed.
Graduate students typically require 4 to 5 years to get a Masters degree, and six to seven years to get a Ph.D.,
again far longer than their peers in other countries, presumably in part because they spend less time
productively advancing their education, and more time waiting and doing administrative and other work due to
the problems identified above.
34



Effect of reform of PACIME Procedures on Efficiency: (The changes and their rationale are described in more
detail in the PIP.) CONACYT will make immediate changes in its procedures to increase the efficiency of
grantees, and the simplified processes will be in effect for the first set of KIP grants which will be made in
1998. A study will be conducted early in the project to identify additional changes (and provide the basis for
requests for changes in law and/or regulation needed for such changes). Grants will be extended to three years
(from about 2 years in PACIME) to reduce the administrative burdens of the competitive process on scientists.
CONACYT will move toward disciplinary windows which will receive all funding requests for support, and
away from instrument specific windows, thereby simplifying the administrative tasks of principal investigators
in managing their labs.
Some of the innovations of KIP will tend to have short term impacts on average efficiency of researchers
funded in the portfolio which will be negative. KIP includes a variety of new instruments for young
investigators, which should greatly increase their career productivity. But one must expect that the per year
productivity of young researchers building their labs and starting their research careers will be lower than that of
more experienced researchers. Similarly, the Field Development Subcomponent of the project will seek out
fields where production is not equal to social and economic needs; to the degree that these Field Development
projects fund new or weaker labs to build their research capacity, it is to be expected that short term productive
efficiency in these grants vvill be relatively lower than in funding the already strong and productive fields and
laboratories.
The project includes incentives for graduate education in research grants, and especially it includes incentives
for timely completion of research degrees. These changes should improve the efficiency of funded laboratories
in training Masters and Ph.D. students.
Reasonable Expectation for Overall Efficiency Impact: It is extremely difficult to increase the efficiency of
scientific laboratories, and the program will in some areas accept relatively lower annual productivity to
increase long term benefits. However, given the room available for improvement, and the emphasis of the
program on such improvements, it seems likely that it should be possible in five years to increase the amount of
time researchers actually spend on their research and students actually spend fruitfully learning how to do
research each year by four (4) to seven (7) percent.
Quality:
Room for Improvement: It is of course difficult to judge quality of research from self reporting, and the
monitoring and evaluation process used in PACIME did not provide an overview of the quality of CONACYT
funded research. Citation indicators must be interpreted with great care for a country like Mexico, but they
suggest that there should be a marked increase in Mexican papers that meet the quality standards for mainstream
journals, and one must assume that this low level of publication represents not only a low level of production of
results, but also problems with the quality of those results.
Effects if Changes from PACIME to KIP on Quality: The KIP program is making several changes that should
improve quality of results from the projects funded. It seeks to increase concentration of resources on the best
proposals. The monitoring and evaluation system will be strengthened, and more feedback provided to
investigators on the substance of their research. Meetings of funded researchers will be organized at which their
work will be subject to constructive peer comment. Advisory committees will increase the use of evaluation of
the quality of past CONACYT research grants in considering new proposals, and thereby will create incentives
for grantees to improve quality. The program will also strengthen Mexican scientific and technological journals
which play an important role in providing incentives for research quality.
35



On the other hand, it seems likely that the average quality of work by young investigators and in new fields will
be lower than that in the traditional research grants areas, and again seeking long term improvements in
Mexican S&T research capabilities may tend to reduce the quality attained on the average in the portfolio of
projects.
Reasonable Expectation for Overall Quality Impact: The rate of change of quality in a portfolio of hundreds or
thousands of research grants will be slow, and some changes from PACIME to KIP will actually tend to
decrease the average quality of research funded in the portfolio (see discussion of Young Researcher program,
above). It seems likely that the net impact will be perhaps a one (I) to five (5) percent increase in average
quality of the research supported by the program.
"Pertinencia"
Room for Improvement: The assessment is predicated on the assumption that the Mexican economy is in a
process of rapid growth, and as part of that growth. It is known that in general countries become more research
intensive as per capita GDP increases, and that the growth of the research capacity is in part due to the greater
needs for research of more productive industrial sectors and subsectors that become increasingly important in
the economy. As a result one expects increased need for changes in the composition of the research capacity of
Mexico, and of the portfolio of CONACYT's funded research grants. If Mexico is to sustain moderate levels of
GDP growth and a rapid increase in the percentage of GDP allocated to research and development, then it is
going to need to restructure its research capacity to meet the changing needs of the country.
"Pertinencia" also implies that the research results in social and economic benefits to the country. There
appears to be considerable criticism that research in the universities and government laboratories supported by
CONACYT is too "ivory tower". Thus there seems to be considerable potential to improve the utility of
CONACYT funded R&D projects in Mexico's social and economic development.
Effects of Changes from PACIME to KIP on "Pertinencia": In the PACIME program, CONACYT was
relatively passive in terms of directing funding so as to maximize the "pertinencia" of the research in its funded
portfolio, essentially supporting capacity that had been developed as a result of decisions made in the academic
sector or in the governmentally owned and operated laboratories. While CONACYT will not seek to replace
markets, the autonomous universities, state governments, state universities and other policy makers in defining
R&D priorities, it will take a more proactive stance in this regard. Indeed, emphasis on increased publications
in Mexican and international journals may tend to make the research portfolio more sensitive to the priorities of
the scientific societies as reflected in the editorial policies of those journals, and as effected through incentives
to do research which is published in high prestige journals.
As part of the KIP, the Field Development Subcomponent will engage CONACYT in identifying R&D areas
where existing capacity is low compared to social and economic importance, and will be proactive in building
capacity in those fields and funding research. Advisory committees in the traditional CONACYT areas will be
more proactive in reviewing the portfolios of funded projects and comparing the balance of the funding with the
desired evolution of their disciplines in Mexico. Competitive processes will be introduced which allow
marginal changes in the allocation of resources among disciplinary programs in response to both the
productivity and quality of those programs and changing national needs.
The linkage and technology components of the KIP should also result in institutional changes which influence
the directions of R&D in the universities and government research labs, making them more responsive to
market pressures and the demands of industry.
36



While the Linkage and Technology components are specifically designed to build institutions to improve the
relevance of R&D to social and economic development, actions within the S&T Research Component to
improve the dissemination of research results will also tend to have that impact, as will efforts to involve users
of research results more in CONACYT's processes.
Reasonable Expectation for Overall "Pertinencia" Impact: The portfolio of projects funded by CONACYT will
evolve over the next decade, as it continues to support large areas of existing S&T capacity that remain or
increase in relevance to Mexico's needs, and as it identifies new areas or niches that need to be strengthened.
The "pertinencia" of the overall portfolio will be the result of complex decision processes in which CONACYT
is only one actor, and perhaps not the most important actor in many individual decisions. Still there is likely to
be a modest increase in "pertinencia" as a result of the changes from the PACIME to the KIP procedures.
Perhaps a one (1) to three (3) percent increment in "pertinencia" might be reasonably expected.
Combined Effect of Improvements in Productivity and "Pertinencia"
It has been suggested in the equation above that "productivity" is a function of the quality and the efficiency of
research, and in the discussion above it has been suggested that the KIP procedures, based on the lessons
learned from PACIME should increase efficiency by three (3) to seven (7) percent and should increase quality
by one (1) to five (5) percent. It seems likely that the overall benefits from improvements in efficiency and
quality should be additive (rather than the average of the two as increase in productivity). Thus productivity
should increase by four (4) to twelve (12) percent.
It is suggested that "pertinencia" and productivity are multiplicative, and that "pertinencia" will increase by one
(I) to three (3) percent using KIP rather than PACIME procedures. Thus it is suggested that the value of the
CONACYT program will increase by five (5) to fifteen (15) percent as a result of the switch from PACIME to
KIP procedures.
Comments on Financial Values
For the Scientific and Technological Research Component, we assume that the ratio of matching funds to World
Bank funds are I to 1.
We estimate:
*  a ratio, r(I), of non-matching Government contributions to World Bank contributions;
*  a ratio, r(2), of funds provided by universities and others to the funds provided by CONACYT in the grants
made by CONACYT.
Thus, for every dollar of World Bank funding there would be (I+r(l)) dollars of government funding (matching
and non-matching contributions), and (2+r(1))* r(2) dollars of university and other institutional funding. Thus,
in total, for every dollar of World Bank funding there would be I +r( I )+2*r(2)+r( 1 )*r(2) in funds from Mexico.
Since the KIP procedures will be used for the entire portfolio, and will influence the productivity of the
complementary and matching funds, we can conclude that switch to KIP from PACIME rules will increase the
productivity of research funding of I +r( I )+2*r(2)+r( 1 )*r(2) in Mexican funding for every dollar of World Bank
loan by five to fifteen percent at the end of five years.
37



Indicators Related to Potential Benefits of the Science and Technology Research Component
Scientific and Technological Research funded within that component of the KIP project produces knowledge
which is used in different ways. Total benefits from the research would appear to be the aggregate of those
benefits from the different uses.
As an example, take a project conducted in a civil engineering faculty on methods to prevent rusting of metal
used in civil construction. The results of such research might be directly used to improve civil works, as where
government incorporates such knowledge in standards for metal reinforcement of civil works, and such value
could in theory be measured in terms of savings on construction and maintenance. Graduate students working
on the project will receive benefits in learning how to do research, absorbing tacit knowledge of research
methods which can only be acquired through experience; in theory such value could be measured in terms of the
value of such education to students and the social value external to those benefits which the students are able to
appropriate in future earnings. Those involved in the research would normally be expected to bring knowledge
acquired during the research into the classroom for undergraduate and continuing education of engineers. Thus,
in the example, the department might upgrade the theoretical material on corrosion taught in its courses, and
acquaint students with state of the art instrumentation for corrosion studies. One might in theory measure the
value of such information to the students in terms of willingness to pay for professional training in research
intensive schools, and one might measure social value of the knowledge in terms of the engineering firms
evaluation of the education and training provided by the university. There is a consumer value for the
information produced as well; thus if the information is published in journal articles a part of the value of the
journal is attributable to the project that produced the knowledge published, and if a newspaper article is
published on corrosion in bridges as a result of the project, a part of the value of that newspaper is attributable to
value the public places on that knowledge as a consumer service.
The following categories are suggested for benefits from research projects funded under the KIP:
Training in how to do research for students seeking research degrees (Masters and Ph.D.)
* Feedback into curricula of undergraduate and continuing professional education of new knowledge,
methodologies, instrumentation, etc.
* Consumer benefits from professionals and the general public who take interest in scientific and
technological knowledge;
* Specific application of research results:
* Generalized feedback into government and industry of new knowledge, methodologies, instrumentation,
etc. by consulting and other participation of researchers involved;
To estimate the potential benefits from the research, we reviewed the research grants made in 1997. According
to the grants data base, CONACYT approved 804 grants with a total value of 336,007,290 pesos. All of these
seem to have potential to involve graduate students at the MS or Ph.D. level, and thus to have potential benefits
in the training of researchers.
Of the grants, 545 were to researchers in institutions which appeared to offer undergraduate education, with a
total value of 209,997,605 pesos. These projects would presumably be those with potential benefits in
undergraduate education.
The grants were further classified as to various types of potential direct applications of research results, as
follows:
* Resources: Increase of available resource base, as when geological researchers identify previously
38



unknown ore deposits, or when hydrologists identify ways to better manage an aquifer to increase the water
that can be drawn, or maintain environmental amenities, as when ecological research leads to better
management techniques to protect nature reserves.
* Construction: Improved technologies for construction of civil works, buildings, etc., or for protection of
such works or structures from damage caused by environmental factors.
* Extraction: Improved technologies for extractive industries, such as agriculture, logging, fishing, etc.
* Goods: Improved technology for manufacturing goods, as when the research results are used to develop
new products or new process for the production of goods, or to improve existing goods. Software products
are considered to be "goods".
* Services: Improved technology for producing services, as when research results are used to develop new
services or new processes for the production of services or to improve existing services. Specifically, health
and educational services are included in this category, as are communications services.
* Institutions: Improved institutions as when, for example, economic research leads to ways to improve
markets or other economic institutions, sociological research identifies problems in current social
institutions and suggests ways those institutions can be improved, or research in management science
illuminates ways in which enterprises can be better organized.
* Policies: Improved policies, as when epidemiological research illuminates the pattern of diseases and leads
to improved articulation of public health programs to health conditions, or when ecological research
illuminates the processes in an ecosystem leading to better policies for the sustainable use of the ecosystem.
Projects were identified as Basic Research when direct applications were not apparent.
A number of projects were classified as having Incomplete Information. (Inc. Inf.) in the data base to determine
potential impact.
There was of course no way to ascertain what benefits actually will accrue in Mexico from any project. Indeed,
with only very limited information available to judge potential benefits and with more than 800 funded projects
over the entire range of science and technology estimates of potential benefits were very inexact. Still, the
information suggests at least a classification of kinds of benefits to be expected, and proportion of projects that
potentially may lead to direct applications. It is expected that some such classification will be incorporated in
the project review and the monitoring and evaluation processes of the new project.
The following table shows the numbers of projects and their, tabulated by the class of benefit. (Note that this
classification was exclusive. Thus a project could be classified as having benefits in the production of goods or
in the production of services, but not both. Projects could of course simultaneously have potential educational
benefits and potential benefits in the production of goods or services.)
39



Type of              Value of Grants              ~~~~~~~~~Average
Beneofis   Number of Grants Percent of Grants    (Pesos)    Percentage of Value   Grant
Benefits                (Pesos)                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Pesos)
Basic         210        26.12%       107,743,031    32.07%        513,062
Inc. Inf.      208        25.87%        24,819,270     7.39%        119,323
Resources       22         2.74%          9,843,353     2.93%       447,425
Extraction      72         8.96%         39,571,574    11.78%       549,605
Construction     7          0.87%          2,700,450     0.80%       385,779
Goods         127        15.80%         68,332,981    20.34%       538,055
Services       69         8.58%         39,521,207    11.76%        572,771
Institutions    14          1.74%          3,999,935    1.19%        285,710
Policies       75         9.33%         39,475,489    11.75%       526,340
Total         804       100.00%       336,007,290    100.00%       417,920
The grants under the Incomplete Information (Inc. Inf.) category were primarily research initiation grants
(which were not described in the data base by substantive content.) If these were distributed into applied and
basic research as the rest of the projects, it would seem that about two-thirds of the CONACYT grants and funds
were allocated to applied research and technology development, and the rest to basic research.
An aside might be made on the term "technology". The 127 grants related to the production of goods were
technological in nature, and indeed many of the 72 grants related to extractive industries were also technological
in nature. However, the large number of polity and institutional research grants were applied but not
technological as one usually defines technology. Similarly, many of the resource related grants were not
"technology" as that word is usually used but would have socio-economic benefits.
The Basic research might be worth a comment as well. CONACYT seems to be required to fund much of this
research, such as research on Mexico's history and cultural diversity. Basic research in areas such as
optimization theory, molecular biology and materials science is also important for Mexico, both in the sense that
it may turn out to have applications in the medium and long term, and in that it informs technology and
education. Only a relatively small portion of the research was in areas such as astrophysics in which Mexican
applications of the research seemed remote and unlikely, and CONACYT would seem to have responsibility to
keep a small amount of such research funded in that the higher education community depending on such
funding.
In general the CONACYT portfolio appeared to be relevant to Mexico's socio-economic development in terms
of the substantive content of the grants funded. The reforms in the KIP project should help to move the
portfolio from one-third to one-fourth or one-fifth devoted to fundamental research.
Economic Anlaysis of Industry-University Linkage and Enterprise Technology Enhancement
Components
Introduction
The economic analysis of this type of project presents special difficulties. This is due essentially to the indirect
relationship between actions taken under the project and the stream of benefits that result from them. Despite
these difficulties, an attempt is made here to present a quantified measure of some of the benefits that are
expected to result from this project.
40



Background
Developing countries are very diverse in terms of their R&D capabilities , their technology contracting
capabilities, their Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) systems, and their capacities to administer and adjudicate
such systems.
Mexican technological development, particularly in industry, suggests that a great deal of investment in
technological development is required to achieve levels comparable to Newly Industrialized Countries' (NIC)
economies. As the record of NICs (and, before them , of Japan) reveals, Mexico can grow faster than the
advanced countries. Being able to use modem technology without having to expend resources creating it from
scratch, more Less-Developed Countries (LDCs) may be able to catch up to the industrialized nation in level of
economic development. But convergence through catch-up growth cannot happen in the absence of substantial
investment in technological development. For Mexico, the dominant objective of firm-level R&D is to facilitate
technology purchase, either in direct (licensing) form or indirect form where new production technology must
be incorporated into plants and where quality control is required for exports of products.
In terms of invention, Mexico has the same level of patents granted to domestic firms and inventors as
Argentina, Egypt, Hungary, India, Malaysia, Philippines and Turkey that have comparatively minor invention
capabilities in relation to Poland, Brazil and China. Comparative patent data by industry of manufacture and
sector of use for Mexico indicates a concentration of patents in the chemicals sector.
Mexico shows an expansion in domestic invention (especially in chemicals ) from 1981 to 1985 but a decline
since 1985, possibly due to crowding-out by American inventors, whose inflows almost tripled between 1985
and 1992. The next few years may show whether Mexican invention can react to an influx of American
invention as successfully as seen in Korea. So far, chemical and drug industry and manufacturing continue to
dominate domestic invention patterns, while foreign inventors dominate the electronics and metals industries.
2. Cost Benefit/Cost Effectiveness of the Technology Component in Mexico
This annex summarizes the available information on benefits and costs of the technology and linkage
components and gives a preliminary assessment of the problems of carrying out a reliable benefit/cost analysis,
including estimating rates of return to R&D and technology support programs. In principle, one should be able
to estimate productivity benefits and costs, to assess the economic growth consequences of technology
investments. Based upon this preliminary assessment, proposals are made for data collection and analysis that
should be built ihto the project monitoring and evaluation so as to improve assessment of the development
impact of the project.
Indicators of technological development
In analyzing technological development, it will be ideally good to know how much has been invested in what
kinds of capital with what rates of return. Unfortunately, such information is not generally available and is
exceedingly difficult to obtain on an aggregate basis for some important forms of capability acquisition, like
those which occur in connection with initial efforts to attain increased mastery over newly acquainted industrial
technology. Available instead are data for various indicators related to distinct aspects of technological
capability. These indicators offer a limited, but meaningful comparison of technological development across
countries.
41



Research and Development Indicators, 1995
Country      R&D/GDP  % Gov R&D    % Private            % Others        R&D private
funding        R&D funding   R&D funding   sector
spending/GDP
Germany      2.27        37.1            60.8           2.1             1.50
Canada       1.60        37.9           46.7            15.4           0.96
USA          2.58        36.1            59.9           4.0             1.85
Spain        0.82        53.9           38.9            7.2            0.37
-France      2.34        41.6            48.7           9.6             1.44
Italy        1.14        47.4           48.7            3.9            0.65
Japan        2.64        21.5           68.2            10.3            1.87
Mexico       0.31        66.2            17.6           16.2           0.06
United       2.19        32.3            50.3           17.4            1.43
Kingdom
Sweden       3.04        31.4           62.9            5.7            2.31
Source: INEGI-CONACYT, R&D Survey, 1996
OECD, Main Science and Technology Indicators
Mexico Science and Technology Indicators, 1996, CONACYT
The figures in the table illuminate several aspects of technological development with the caveat, regarding the
comparability of such indicators across countries. Private sector R&D investment as a percentage of GDP is
very low in Mexico compare to OECD countries. However, data on industrial R&D do not capture many related
kinds of technological effort that are important at lower levels of technological development. For example many
important innovations come from sources other than what is formally classified as R&D such at the system of
"just-in-time" production process. Significant increases in productivity, come initially from technological efforts
related to raw material control, product and process quality controls, production scheduling, changes in product
mix. Formal R&D activities typically commence only after a substantial degree of capability has been acquired
production and in at least some aspects of investment.
The modernization component will support innovations that come from technological effort that are more focus
in increasing productivity and efficiency at the firm level than R&D activities per se.
Returns of industrial R&D
Studies of various forms of investment in technology are important for policy purposes because of the need to
understand the factors that stimulate such investment. Unfortunately, there is little evidence from LDCs about
the determinants of investment activities by private firms (Evenson 1995).
Surveys of returns to private R&D in developed countries show that investments in R&D, when evaluated ex-
post, yield private returns that are at least as high as returns to other investments (Mohnen 1990). Mansfield
(1977) reports on 17 case studies of innovation for which the median private rate of return was 25 percent.
Griliches (1980) reports rates of returns for large U.S. industrial firms ranging from 30 to 50 percent. Mairesse
and Sassenoun (1991), on reviewing a number of studies giving statistical estimates of the impact of research
expenditures on firm-level productivity covering several advanced countries (France, Japan, and the U.S.) found
that all implied positive and highly significant elasticities, with approximate rates of return ranging from 14 to
24 percent.
Social rates of return should exceed the private rates owing to the individual firm's inability to appropriate the
42



full benefits from conducting R&D. Mansfield (1977) found that social rates of return (median, 56 percent)
were in most cases more than double the private rates. Griliches (1991) and Nadiri (1993) have reviewed a
number of empirical studies and conclude that R&D spillovers are of substantial importance, which provided
additional evidence that social returns are considerably in excess of private returns.
Very few studies have estimated returns to industrial R&D in LDCs. Basant and Fikkert (1993) have done of
the few studies for developing countries. Their estimates of the private returns to R&D in India are no less than
comparable estimates obtained for developed countries. They also find evidence that social returns exceed
private returns.
There are no estimates on the returns to industrial R&D for Mexico. During project implementation
econometric calculations will be required to obtain a preliminary estimation on the rates of return. CONACYT
can perform this task based on the data available from its National Innovation Survey 1996.
Technical Efficiency of SMEs
The evidence is mixed about how efficient SMEs are relatively to larger firms. The relative importance of
limited technological capabilities as a constrain to SME growth needs to be analyzed in Mexico. Batra and Tan
(1995) estimated firm level efficiency for Mexico. They use data of 5,072 manufacturing firms in 1992. They
used R&D investments and know-how licensing as measures of technological capabilities. They found that the
correlation between efficiency and R&D was positive and significant. Mexico has a better developed R&D
capacity that can increase firm efficiency. In other countries, such as Colombia and Indonesia the correlation
was negative. The study suggests that the project could generate a positive impact on firm efficiency. We will
need to assess this impact for the project.
Benefit/Cost Evaluation
Despite the difficulties in calculating the stream of benefits, the analysis below suggests the following:
Modernization Component
A positive Net Present Value of US$ 4.2 million (internal rate of return of 10 percent) can be anticipated for
the quantifiable components of this sub-component. The NPV calculation uses a discount rate of 10 percent,
and the estimate incorporates all the benefits of the project that can be quantify. It excludes any value for
intangible benefits, and on that basis might be considered as a lower bound estimate of the actual return to be
generated.
Linkage Component
Joint project sub-component. A positive Net Present Value of US$2.6 million (internal rate of return of 16
percent) can be anticipated for this sub-component. The NPV calculation uses a discount rate of 10 percent
Quantifying Benefits
Ideally, the effect of each of the project intervention the costs of firms should be the starting point for an
examination of the potential increase in profits. However, such data are not generally available, and sometimes
not even known by the owners/managers of firms. Despite this, most firms have notional estimates of the
potential increases in output that could result from specific actions. This information, together with some
simple assumptions, provide us a basis for estimating the potential increases in profit (benefits) that are
expected from the modernization sub-component.
Modernization Sub-component
We have used for the calculations as a benefit measure, the profits generated by the commercial projects which
are the ultimate destination of assistance under this project. However, we have not considered economic
43



externalities from research and development in the formal and inform a way and demonstration effects to other
firms. In the absence of precise information on these types of considerations, it seems most practical to assume
financial and economic values are coterminous.
The valuation of benefits uses a two stage calculation which firstly estimates the extra output created by
assisted firms, and secondly the profit, or benefit, associated with that output. Additional output is defined as
the difference between the level of output achieved by firms assisted by the project and the level of output these
same firms would have achieved in the absence of the project. These parameters will be monitored during the
life of the project using baseline and annual surveys of assisted firms.
For this sub-components, we have assumed that for every US$1 of consultancy assistance, assisted firm will
increase their output (sales ) according to: US$0 for I day diagnostic, US$1.5 for 3 day diagnostic, US$ 3.2 for
firm project and US$ 3.5 for a group project, each year over a five year period. This is a very conservative
assumption compared to the performance reported in an export project in Kenya, in which export earnings
increased by about US$20 for every US$1 dollar of consultancy input. In the second stage an approximate
measure of the profit, or benefit generated from this output value (Cr.2 1 97-KE, Project Completion Report). In
the second stage an approximate measure of the profit, or benefit generated from this output value can be made
using a working estimate that, at the margin, the ratio of gross profits to output is 25 percent. We verified this
assumption during appraisal in Mexico.
Private Regional/Sectoral Technology Support Centers
The primary benefit is the economic return generated by the centers which received grants from the project.
The proposed centers or the strengthening of them which are assumed would not have proceeded without the
availability of the new source of grants. CONACYT has reported, at least 6 potential regional centers are in the
pipeline. During project appraisal, we could not evaluate the potential of the proposed projects. We suggest
that CONACYT require a financial and economic analysis of each proposed center as part of the appraisal
process prior to extending support, to ensure that proposed projects generate a positive rate of return.
The objective is to choose among alternatives to identify the most profitable opportunities for investment in
both the existing and new regional technical centers. Furthermore, the objective is also to maximize the
economic impact of investments on the concerned sector. Some features of this methodology, which relate
specifically to the types of activities that would be provided by the regional technical centers, are summarized
below:
For the financial analysis: a) a market study to determine what services are needed by private industries that are
not being offered by the private sectors, as well as the demand for the proposed service/services at different
prices; b) a technical study to determine what investments are necessary to offer a given service; and c)
financial rate of return analysis, including the full cost of the investment and of operating expenses, to verify
that it is financially viable for the institution to provide the service at an acceptable price. The proposal should
include all the financial and economic analysis.
For the economic analysis: a) a market study to estimate actual and potential demand by industrial enterprises
for services provided by regional technical centers; b) Economic benefits of investment, estimate the revenue of
regional technical center investment for the period 1998-2003 (at border prices for services that are currently
provided overseas, or at prices offered by local suppliers when such suppliers exist) and estimate the benefits of
investments for the sector (for example, increase in exports, savings in resource utilization, productivity
improvements; c) estimate investment costs (at market prices) and direct and indirect operations costs, but also
when possible estimate at opportunity cost; d) calculate the internal rate of return.
44



Linkages Component
Joint Projects. The purpose of this type of expenditure is to help attract new investment from the private sector
and increase collaboration between firms and universities. We will assume that this sub-component should
generate an additional US$5 of output (sales) to the firm for every $1 spent on this sub-component. The
additional output is then translated into additional profit using a ratio of gross profits to output of 25 percent..
However, assigning a value to the benefit of this subcomponent is difficult. Given the complexities of the issues
on this type of projects, including those regarding R&D spillovers to other sectors in the economy and the lags
on the results of the investment.
Sensitivity Analysis
The impact of the main risk on each project benefit is summarized bellow:
Modernization Component. A primary source of sensitivity is in meeting the performance target for the
positive impact of consultancy assistance on firms' output. Should this performance be lower than estimated, the
NPV of this sub-component will be reduced. An alternative way of viewing this risk is that, may be the number
of firms proposed will be served but they may not generate extra profit from the assistance provided as
expected.
Linkages Component
Joint Projects. The benefits are dependent of the performance target for the positive impact of the collaboration.
If the collaboration created only US$ 4 of extra output per US$1 of investment, the NPV of the component
becomes negative.
Benefit Cost Analysis
Modernization Sub-component
Rate of Discount                       NPV           IRR
(US$ millions)
10° (           4.27
12%             3.50
24%             0.70       30%
Joint Projects
Rate of Discount                       NPV       IRR
(US$ millions)
10%             2.66
12%             1.55
24%            -2.24       16%
45



Annex 5
Knowledge and Innovation Project
Financial Summary
Thousands of US$
Years ending December 31
1998     1999    2000      2001     2002    2003 Total
Project Expenditures
S&T Research          15.00    60.00    60.00    60.00    60.00   30.00   285.00
Ind-Univ Linkage       8.44    30.00    38.00    35.00    30.00   15.00   156.44
Tech Enhancement      11.33    30.00    45.00    45.00    40.00   20.00   191.33
Total Allocated      34.77   120.00   143.00   140.00   130.00   65.00   632.77
Unallocated                                                               30.00
Total Expenditures                                                        662.77
Project as percent of:
Gen. gov't consumption         0.1%
Gross dom. inv.                0.1%
46



Annex 6
MEXICO: Knowledge and Innovation Project
Project Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional Arrangements
The executing agency for the project will be CONACYT. CONACYT has five years of experience as
executor of the Mexico Science and Technology Infrastructure Project (Loan 3475-ME) which supported
similar activities to the proposed loan. A number of improvements to project design are proposed under
the new loan to increase operational efficiency and effectiveness.
CONACYT, with Bank approval, will hire individual consultants with strong experience in procurement
under science and technology projects to manage the procurement under the project. Regarding the
selection of consultants for the different components, ad hoc evaluation committees will be convened as
required.
The Science & Technology Research Component will consist of competitive, peer-evaluated grants
awarded for the purpose of science and technology research. The majority of the research grants will be
awarded to individuals and will average US$150,000 (to be spent over a three-year period); however,
some research grants will be awarded to group projects averaging US$1 million. The research grants
would cover the financing of equipment and laboratory materials. CONACYT's Deputy Directorate of
Science Research will implement this component.
The Industry-University Linkages Component will consist of the following three subcomponents: (a)
restructuring of SEP-.CONACYT centers, (b) joint university-industry projects, and (c) university
linkages capabilities. The first subcomponent will be implemented by the Deputy Director of
Coordination of the SEP- CONACYT Centers; the other two subcomponents will be implemented by the
Deputy Directorate of Technology Modernization.
Finally, the Enterprise Technology Enhancement Component will consist of the following four
subcomponents: (a) Technology Modernization, (b) Regional/Sectional Technology Centers, (c) Special
Pilot Programs and (d) Venture Capital Fund. The Deputy Directorate of Technology Modernization will
implement this component.
B. Procurement of Goods
Procurement of all goods will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines
(Guidelines. Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, version dated January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, and September 1997). For contracts for goods to be awarded on the basis of
ICB, the Borrower may grant a margin of domestic preference in the bid evaluation up to 15 percent or
the amount applicable to customs duties, whichever is lower, to qualified domestic manufactures.
The following procurement procedures will be utilized under the Project:
1. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) - This procedure will be used for all contracts above
US$350,000 equivalent. This will represent about 85 percent of total goods procured directly under
the project. This procedure will require the use of Bank Standard Bidding documents.
47



2. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) - Contracts costing less than US$350,000 equivalent but more
than US$100,000 equivalent will be procured following NCB procedures. Goods under these
contracts will be locally available and will be unlikely to attract foreign competition. This procedure
will require the use of standard bidding documents as agreed by the Bank and the Mexican
authorities.
3. International/National Shopping (IS/NS) - IS procedures will be used for goods valued less than
US$200,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of about US$3.4 million equivalent. NS
procedures will be used for goods costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount
of about US$4 million equivalent. (IS and NS would represent approximately 5 percent of total
goods.
4. Direct Contracting (DC) - Goods that are obtainable only from one supplier will be procured under
DC procedures. This procedure will be subject to prior Bank approval. The aggregate amount of
goods to procured under DC is US$0.5 million equivalent, that represents about I percent of total
goods.
C. Procurement of Consulting Services
Consultants will be hired on terms and conditions, (including review of their qualifications), in
accordance with the principles and procedures set in the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency dated January 1997 and revised
September 1997.
D. Grant and Credit Schemes
The project will include five credit and grant subcomponents that due to their nature will operate under
different procurement rules.
Science and Technology Research Projects (Research Grant Scheme) - The purpose of this
subcomponent is to improve the system for science research and human resources training in Mexico.
This subcomponent will support 4000-5000 research projects approved through CONACYT's
competitive review process (800-1000 per year) to be implemented by individual investigators from
roughly 250 universities and research centers spread throughout the country. Procurement would be
carried out by the grantee's university or research center. Each grant agreement between CONACYT and
the Investigator will stipulate that all procurement must be performed in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines (Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, version dated
January 1995, revised January and August 1996, and September 1997).
The research grants will average US$150,000 over three years to be used to purchase a diverse array of
specialized scientific equipment (approximately 45 percent), materials, reagents and consumables
(approximately 25 percent) and the remaining funds (roughly 30 percent) will be spent on project-specific
materials and services (i.e. field work expenses, printing, external commercial services, maintenance,
documents and information services, lab animals, etc.).
The average purchase amount is expected to be approximately US$5,000. Estimates of total purchase
amounts by method of procurement are as follows: 25 percent ICB, 15 percent NCB, 45 percent IS/NS
(Licitacion Restringida), and 15 percent Direct Purchase (I supplier).
48



Procurement training and support for participating universities will be provided under the Project.
Random ex-post auditing will be undertaken by CONACYT and external auditors to ensure compliance
with Bank guidelines. In addition, aggregate reports of procurement data will be reviewed to signal
irregular activity for further review.
Joint University - Industry R&D Projects (Matching Grant Scheme) - This activity would support
projects through a competitive matching grant scheme executed jointly by members of academia and
industry. Project proposals will be subject to technical, commercial, and financial evaluations. Firms that
have their projects approved will then sign a contract with the higher education institution or research
center with which they will carry out the project.
The participating firns will execute procurement in accordance to the financially evaluated proposal.
The matching grant scheme will operate on a reimbursement basis against proof of expenses incurred and
achievement of corresponding objectives under execution plan.
Enterprise Technology Modernization Program (Matching Grant Scheme) - The program will support
procurement of consultant services by SMEs in the form of a grant to cover 50 percent of the cost of
consultancy support up to US$50,000 per firm. The qualifying activities will consist of technology
upgrading services. All consultants will be required to register for the program as individuals.
Grants will be paid on a reimbursement basis, based on satisfactory completion of the project, proof of
payment to the consultant, and delivery of the defined outputs.
Regionat/Sectoral Technology Centers (Credit Scheme) - This subcomponent plans to provide support
to privately owned and operated Technology Centers via matching credits based on technically evaluated
business plans. Credits will match private sector contributions to Centers, but will be limited to
US$750,000 per center.
Approved projects will have funds transferred in tranches. Each successive payment will be subject to
satisfactory progress with a staged implementation program set out in the business plan.
Venture Capital Fund - The Bank would contribute US$ 5 million (approximately 10 percent of total
equity) to a privately managed technology-based venture capital fund.
49



Table A                                         Annex 6
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method          Total Cost (including
contingencies)
ICB      NCB        Other     N.B.F.
Goods (Computers, Equipment and
materials)
I D. DAIC Institutional Strengthening      0.80      0.80      0.40                 2.00
(0.80)    (0.80)    (0.40)               (2.00)
2A. Centros SEP-Conacyt                   36.00      4.00      1.00                 41.00
(2.00)    (2.00)    (1.00)               (5.00)
2C. Strenthening Linkages Capabilities in
Academy                                              2.00                           2.00
(1.00)                         (1.00)
Total Goods                               36.80      6.80      1.40                 45.00
(2.80)    (3.80)    (1.40)               (8.00)
Services b/ (Consultants, training,
promotion)
IC. DAIC Institutional Strengthening                           8.00                 8.00
(8.00)               (8.00)
2A. Centros SEP-Conacyt                                       25.00                 25.00
(21.00)              (21.00)
2C. Strenthening Linkages Capabilities in
Academy                                                        17.20                17.20
(4.00)               (4.00)
3C. Special Pilot Programs                                     3.00                 3.00
(2.50)               (2.50)
Total Procurement                         36.80      6.80     54.60                 98.20
(2.80)    (3.80)    (36.90)             (43.50)
Grant & Credit Schemes
I A+B. Science & Tech. Research Projects a/                   275.00               275.00
(125.00)             (125.00)
2B. Joint R&D Projects - Matching Grant c/                    71.24                 71.24
(31.50)             (31.50)
3A. Enterprise Technology Modernization
Matching Grant Scheme d/                                      67.49                 67.49
(30.00)             (30.00)
3B. RegionaUSectoral Technology Centers -
Credit Scheme e/                                              70.84                 70.84
(35.00)              (35.00)
3D. Venture Capital Fund fU                                   50.00                 50.00
(5.00)               (5.00)
Other
4. Unallocated                                                30.00                 30.00
(30.00)              (30.00)
TOTAL PROJECT                             36.80      6.80     619.17               662.77
(2.80)    (3.80)   (293.40)             (300.00)
50



Annex 6
Note: N.B.F. = Not
Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
a/ The Science Research Subprojects (Competitive Grants System) may incur procurement of goods through
ICB, NCB, LIB, shopping and direct contracting by investigator as indicated in grant agreement.
b/ Services procured in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines: Selection and Employment of consultants
World Bank Borrowers (Washington, DC, January 1997).
c/ Joint R & D Project selection in accordance with the criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank.
d/ Modernization Program Matching Grant selection in accordance with the criteria and
procedures agreed with the Bank.
e/ Technology Development Credit Scheme selection in accordance with the criteria and
procedures agreed with the Bank.
f/ Innovation Venture Capital selection in accordance with the criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank.
Table B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category  Contract Value (Threshold) Procurement Method    Prior Review
Works
< US$350,000            Three quotations          nonel
>US$350,000              NCB                       none I (not contemplated)
Goods
<US$100,000             National or International    none I
Shopping
US$l00,000-US$350,000   NCB or LIB                nonel
>US$350,000              ICB or LIB                All
Services
(a) Individuals     <US$50,000               Qualification-based       none I
>US$50,000               Qualification-based       TOR, CV, draft contract
(b) Firms           <US$100,000              Qualification-based       nonel
>US$100,000              QCBS or QBS               All
Note:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ   Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
ICB  International Competitive Bidding
LIB = Limited International Bidding
NCB = National Compeititive Bidding
IS/NS = International/ National Shopping
I Subject to random ex-post review
51



Annex 6
Table C
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (in USSmillion equivalent)
Expenditure Category                  Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
1. Science Research Projects
A. Research Projects - Grants                           110.00  50% of grant expenditures
B. Field Development - Grants                           15.00   50% of grant expenditures
C. Institutional Strengthening - consulting services     8.00    100% of expenditures
D. Institutional Strengthening - goods                   2.00    100% of foreign; 85% of local
expenditures
2. Industry-University Linkage
A. Centros SEP-Conacyt
i. consultants and training                            21.00   100% of expenditures
ii. goods                                              5.00    100% of foreign; 85% of local
expenditures
B. Joint R&D Projects - Matching Grants                 31.50   100% of amounts disbursed
C. Strenthening Linkages Capabilities in Academy -       4.00    100% of expenditures
Consultants, training and promotion
D. Strenthening Linkages Capabilities in Academy - Goods  1.00    100% of foreign; 85% of local
expenditures
3. Enterprise Technology Enhancement
A. Enterprise Technology Modernization - Matching Grants
i. Phase I - Pilot                                    5.00    100% of amounts disbursed
ii. Phase 11 - Implementation                        25.00   100% of amounts disbursed
B. Regional/Sectoral Technology Centers - Credit Scheme  35.00   100% of amounts disbursed
C. Special Pilot Programs                                2.50    100% of expenditures
D. Venture Capital Fund                                  5.00    10% of fund equity
Unallocated                                               30.00
TOTAL                                                     300.00
52



Annex 7
Knowledge and Innovation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$150               US$160
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         13
First Bank mission (identification)               N/A                 2/24/97
Appraisal mission departure                       3/98                4/14/98
Negotiations                                      4/98                4/21/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     7/98                 7/98
Prepared by: CONACYT
Preparation assistance: Japanese Grant of US$735,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Daniel Crisafulli                   Task Team Leader, Economist
Michael Crawford                   Science and Technology Specialist
Sonia Plaza                               Economist
Roberto Matus                           Operations Analyst
Yevgeny Kuznetsov                             Economist
Lea Braslavsky                        Procurement Specialist
Livio Pino (during appraisal)           Financial Management Specialist
53



Annex 8
Knowledge and Innovation Project
Documents in the Project File*
Selected Documents Available in the Project file
A. Basic Documents for Project Implementation
* Knowledge & Innovation Project, Implementation Plan, May 1998
* Operational Manual, Science and Technology Research Compenent, May 1998.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire (April 24, 1998)
* Project Concept Document (September 19, 1997)
* Project Information Document (December 10, 1997)
C. Related Projects
* Mexico - Staff Appraisal Report (SAR): Science & Technology Infrastructure Project (Ln. 3475-ME). Report No. 10468. April
30, 1992.
- Brazil - SAR: Science and Technology Reform Support Project. Report No. 17178-BR. November 26, 1997.
- Brazil - Project Completion Report (PCR): Science and Technology Project. Report No. 13144-BR. June 14, 1994.
* Indonesia - SAR: Higher Education Support Project. Report No. 15498. May 22, 1996.
* China - SAR: Technology Development Project. Report No. 12814. January 18, 1995.
G Ghana - SAR: Private Sector Development Project. Report No. T6320. November 2. 1994.
* Republic of Mauritius - Technical Annex: Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project. Report No. 12693-MAS.
May 2, 1994.
* Republic of Tunisia - SAR: Industry Support Institutions Upgrading Project. -Report No. 15579-TUN. May 23, 1996.
* Russia Federation - SAR: Education Innovation Project. Report No. 16267-RU. May 6, 1997.
D. Others
*  Bonilla, Marcial, R. Herrera Becerra, F. Gonzalez Ayerdi, and M. Jose Yacaman. Ciencia y Desarrollo, "Proyectos de
Investigacion Cientifica: Analyis de los apoyos Otorgados." Septiembre/Octubre 1995, V. 21, #124, p.9.
*  Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT). Mexico: Indicators of Scientific and Technological Activities, 1996,
1995.
* CONACYT. Mexico Ciencia y Tecnologia: En el umbral del Siglo XXI, 1994.
* CONACYT. Sistema Nacional de Investigadores. Reglamento, 1997.
* National Science Foundation, National Science Board, Science & Engineering Indicators, 1996, 1993.
* OECD, edited by Pierre Mohnen; "R&D Externalities and Productivity Growth Science", Technology and Industry. Review N
18, Special Issue on Technology, Productivity and Employment, 1996, p 39.
* OECD, Impacts of National Technology Programmes, 1995.
* OECD, Industry and Technology: Scoreboard of Indicators; 1995.
* OECD, Reviews of National Science and Technology Policy: Mexico, 1994.
* OECD, Science, Technology and Industry Outlook, 1996.
* OECD, Science & Technology Industry (STI): University Research in Transition. 1998.
* OECD, Technology in Changing World: The Technology/Economy Programme, 1991.
* Hong W. Tan and Geeta Batra, Private Sector Development Department, The World Bank. Enterprise Training in Developing
Countries: Incidence, Productivity Effects and Policy Implications, 1995.
* The World Bank, UNDP and Government of Malaysia. Malaysia: Enterprise Training, Technology and Productivity, A World
Bank Country Study, 1997.
*Including electronic files.
54



Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                    and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                             IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig          Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj         Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 200
Active Loans
MX-PE-7615    IBRD 28240   1987  BANOBRAS                             URBN TRNSPRT I               125.00        0.00             34.02           2.49      41 .46      1.41        S             S
MX-PE-7672    IBRD 3359A   1991  NAFIN                                MINING SCTR                   41.51         0.00             0.00         41.05       41.06       0.00        S              S
MX-PE-7704    IBRD 3358A   1991  NAFIN                                VOC TRNG SCTR                 18.99         0.00             0.00         17.01       32.03      17.03        S              S
MX-PE-7676    IBRD 3475A   1992  NAFIN                                SCIENCE/TECH                   6.50        0.00              0.00           3.36       1.36       2.03        S             S
MX-PE-7667    IBRD 3419A   1992  NAFIN                                 IRRIG SCTR                  100.63         0.00             0.00        100.63    150.60           .40       S             S
MX-PE-7723    IBRD 36280  1993  BANOBRAS                               HWY RHB & SAFETY            480.00         0.00             0.00        203.07       11.08       0.00        S             HS
MX-PE-7648    IBRD 35590   1993  BANOBRAS                             MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP         200.00         0.00             0.00        160.85    121.13         0.00        S             U
MX-PE-7694    IBRD 3543A   1993  NAFIN                                 TRNSPRT AIR POLL CON         79.96         0.00             0.00          79.96    123.08       20.00        S              S
MX-PE-7724    IBRD 3542A   1993  NAFIN                                 LABOR MARKET & PROD.         11.25         0.00             0.00           3.93       1.94       0.00        S             HS
MX-PE-7612    IBRD 37520   1994  BANOBRAS                              SOLID WASTE II              200.00         0.00           193.06           1.71      -4.23       0.00        S              S
MX-PE-7707    IBRD 37510   1994  BANOBRAS                             WATER/SANIT II               350.00         0.00             0.00        187.68    167.66         0.00        S              S
MX-PE-7710    IBRD 37500   1994  BANOBRAS                              N. BORDER I ENVIRONM        368.00         0.00           273.40          65.36    255.10       21.72        U              S
MX-PE-7725    IBRD 3722A   1994  NAFIN                                 PRIM.EDUC.II                254.36         0.00             0.00        238.54    201.91        19.29        S              S
MX-PE-7701    IBRD 3704A   1994  NAFIN                                ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI         119.36        0.00              0.00        117.90       89.54       7.88        S              S
MX-PE-40462   IBRD 39120   1995  NAFIN                                 ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SER        500.00         0.00             0.00         18.29       18.30      -5.06        5              5
MX-PE-34161   IBRD 3838B   1995  NAFIN                                 FINANCIAL SEC T.A.           13.80         0.00             0.00          13.80       2.64      12.90        S              S
Ul    MX-PE-34161   IBRD 3838A   1995  NAFIN                                  FINANCIAL SEC T.A.             5.32        0.00             0.00           4.50       2.64      12.90        S              S
MX-PE-34490   IBRD 3805A   1995  NAFIN                                TECH EDU/TRAING              187.49         0.00             0.00        182.84    120.03        59.83        S              S
MX-PE-7702    IBRD 3790A   1995  SEDESOL                               SECOND DECENTRALZTN         303.39         0.00             0.00        243.00    126.37        45.61        S              U
MX-PE-7607    IBRD 3778A   1995  GOVERNMENT                            RAINFED AREAS DEVELO         41.96         0.00             0.00         34.18       14.82         .88       S              S
MX-PE-7713    IBRD 40500   1996  GOM                                  WATER RESOURCES MANA         186.50         0.00             0.00        178.84        5.08       0.00        S              S
MX-PE-7689    IBRD 39430   1996  NAFIN                                 BASIC HLTH II               310.00         0.00             0.00        249.20       25.86      20.27        S              S
MX-PE-40685   IBRD 39370   1996  NAFIN                                 INFRA. PRIVATZTN TA          30.00         0.00             0.00         22.25       19.59       0.00        S              S
MX-PE-43163   IBRD 42060   1997  HANOBRAS                              FEDERAL ROADS MODzTN        475.00         0.00             0.00        475.00        0.00       0.00
MX-PE-7726    IBRD 41520   1997  GOVERNMENT                           AQUACULTURE                   40.00         0.00             0.00          40.00       2.08       0.00        S             U
MX-PE-7700    IBRD 41370   1997  GOVT OF MEXICO                        COMMUNITY FORESTRY           15.00         0.00             0.00          14.50       1.50       0.00       HS              S
MX-PE-7732    IBRD 41010   1997  GOVERNMENT                            RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.         30.00         0.00             0.00          29.50      14.04       0.00        S              S
MX-PE-7711    IBRD 42760   1998  NAFIN                                 RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA         47.00         0.00             0.00          47.00       2.34       0.00       HS              S
Total                                                                                            4,541.02         0.00          500.48       2,776.44  1,589.01    237.09
Active Loans          Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 1,264.09           20,986.46            22,250.55
of which has been repaid:                   60.24           10,778.70            10,838.94
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 3,980.29           10,213.34            14,193.63
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                92.34                92.34
Of which repaid                :                 0.00                92.34               92.34
Total Undisbursed                 :             2,776.44                 5.61            2,782.05
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced  (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
IFC Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1 -Mar-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval               Company            Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1984/87/94/96            Metalsa                     0.00     0.00      6.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      6.00     0.00
1987                     VULICA                      7.50     0.00      0.00     0.00     7.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
1987/91                  CALICA                      4.79     0.00      0.00     0.00     4.79     0.00      0.00     0.00
1988/91/92/93/95         Apasco                     22.20     0.00      0.00   102.80    22.20     0.00      0.00   102.80
1988/94/95               Sigma                       0.00     5.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     5.00      0.00     0.00
1989                     Cemex                       1.86     0.00      0.00     1.00     1.86     0.00      0.00     1.00
1989                     Grupo FEMSA                 0.00     9.43      0.00     0.00     0.00     9.43      0.00     0.00
1989/90                  BancaSerfin                16.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    16.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1990                     Petrocel                    6.50     0.00     3.00      3.50     6.50     0.00      3.00     3.50
1990/91                  Condumex                    7.76     0.00     0.00      3.18     7.76     0.00      0.00     3.18
1990/92/96               BANAMEX                    62.61     0.00      0.00    98.07    60.21     0.00      0.00    98.07
1991                     CEDETEL                     3.13      .77      0.00     6.09      .63      .77      0.00     6.09
1991                     Vitro Flotado              13.22     0.00     0.00      5.53    13.22     0.00      0.00     5.53
1991/96                  GIBSA                      27.05     0.00    10.00    90.95    27.05      0.00    10.00    90.95
1992                     Banorte-Arancia             4.17     0.00     0.00      0.00     4.17     0.00      0.00     0.00
1992                     Banorte-SABROZA             3.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     3.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1992                     Toluca Toll Road            8.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     8.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1992/91                  Vitro                       0.00    10.17     0.00      0.00     0.00    10.17      0.00     0.00
1992/93/95/96            Grupo Posadas              25.66     5.00     5.00    46.57    25.66      5.00      5.00    46.57
1992/96/97/98            Grupo Probursa              0.00    10.16       .21     0.00     0.00    10.11      .21      0.00
1993                     Derivados                   7.70     0.00     0.00    15.05      7.70     0.00      0.00    15.05
1993                     GIDESA                     12.50     8.00     0.00    25.50    12.50      8.00      0.00    25.50
1993                     GOTM                        1.40     0.00      0.00     1.32     1.40     0.00      0.00     1.32
1993                     Masterpak                   8.40     0.00      0.00    16.20     8.40     0.00      0.00    16.20
1994                     CTAPV                       4.67     0.00      2.53     0.00     4.67     0.00      2.53     0.00
1994                     Interceramic               13.00     0.00      6.00    12.25    13.00     0.00      6.00    12.25
1994/96/98               Aurum-Heller                0.00     2.80      0.00     0.00     0.00     2.80      0.00     0.00
1995                     Baring Venture              0.00     9.09      0.00     0.00     0.00     5.00      0.00     0.00
1995                     Mexplus Puertos             0.00     3.04      0.00     0.00     0.00     3.04      0.00     0.00
1995/96                  Baring Mex. FMC             0.00      .18      0.00     0.00     0.00      .17      0.00     0.00
1996                     GIRSA                      30.00     0.00    10.00   115.00      7.50     0.00      2.50    85.00
1996                     NEMAK                       0.00     0.00     6.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     6.00      0.00
1997                     Banco Bilbao MXC           80.00     0.00    30.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    30.00      0.00
1997                     Comercializadora            6.00     0.00     0.00      7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1997                     Gen. Hipotecaria            0.00     1.43     0.00      0.00     0.00     1.43     0.00      0.00
1997                     Grupo Minsa                20.00    10.00     0.00    30.00    20.00    10.00      0.00    30.00
1997                     TMA                         5.10     0.00     0.00    10.40      5.10     0.00     0.00    10.40
1998                     Grupo Calidra              12.00     6.00     0.00    10.00      0.00     6.00     0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                       414.22    81.07    78.74   600.91   288.82    76.92    71.24   553.41
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997                     ALTAMIRA                   17.80     0.00      1.00    38.00
1997                     CHIAPAS FMC                 0.00      .02      0.00     0.00
1997                     FONDO CHIAPAS               0.00     5.00      0.00     0.00
1998                     FORJA QUIMMCO              13.00     3.00      0.00    13.00
1998                     HIPOTECARIA EQ              0.00      1.20     0.00     0.00
1998                     MERIDA III                 30.00     0.00      0.00    90.00
1998                     ZN MEX FMC                  0.00       .05     0.00     0.00
1998                     ZN MXC EQTY FUND            0.00    20.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:               60.80    29.27      1.00   141.00
56



Annex 10: Mexico at a glance
Latin   Upper.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America  middle-       _.       ______                        -
Mexico  & Carib.  income       Development dlamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        93.5      485       479
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            3,640    3,710    4,540                  Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                              340.2    1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96                                                                      T
Population (%)                                          1.9      1.7      1.5
Labor force (%)                                         2.7      2.3      1.8      GNP                              Gross
per           -                 rmr
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                        npromary
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               ..       ..r..lme,
Urban population ('Y of total poptlation)               75        74       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                33        37       35
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               *                   .               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  87        80       86
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    10        13       13
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)   112       110      107              Mexico
Female                                               110                             ---t0  Upper-middle-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985     199S      1996
|Economic ratlos^
GDP (billions US$)                           94.4    183.6    286.3    329.5    1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                22.3      20.8     19.8     23.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP             5.7      15.5     30.4     32.5               Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   19.0     25.9      22.5     25.4
Gross national savings/GDP                   17.2      22.1     19.2     22.7
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.4       0.4     -0.6     -0.6
Interest payments/GDP                         1.2      5.1       2.8      2.5      Savings    I  -             Investment
Total debt/GDP                               19.3      52.8     58.0     47.7
Total debt service/exports                   41.1      47.5     28.1      36.8
Present value of debtGDP                       ..       ..    55.6
Present value of debtlexports                  ..       ..   166.2
Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  4.6      2.8      -6.2      5.2      5.1           -Mexico
GNP per capita                       1.7      0.6      -9.3      3.9      3.2               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       11.7      9.7     30.2      18.2      7.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985     1995      1996      Growthratesofoutputandinvestment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         Got
Agriculture                                  10.8       8.7      5.0       5.6     40T
Industry                                     29.9      33.5     25.5     26.1     20
Manufacturing                               21.9     23.5     19.1      19.8
Services                                     59.4      57.8     60.9     60.1                   94
Private consumption                          71.6     64.8      67.1     64.9      40
General government consumption                9.3       9.3     10.5       9.7
Imports of goods and services                 9.0     10.4      27.8     30.3                    GDI      G 0P
(average annual growth)                   1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   3.1       1.3      1.8       3.8    40
Industry                                      4.7      3.2      -7.8     10.2    301
Manufacturing                               4.1       3.5     -4.9      10.9    20
Services                                      4.8       2.9     -6.2      3.3      .
Private consumption                           3.7       3.0     -9.5      2.2      o
General govemment consumption                 6.3       2.0     -1.3     -0.7    -10      91   92   93   94
Gross domestic investment                     1.7       4.3    -34.8     25.7    -20
Imports of goods and services                 2.0      14.4    -15.0     22.8
Gross national product                        4.2       2.7     -7.6      5.8              -Exports       OImports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
57



Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1975     1985      1995      1996       Inflation ()
(% change)
Consumer prices (period average)                        57.7      34.9     34.4    30
Implicit GDP deflator (period average)        15.5      56.5      37.9     29.6    20
Government finance                                                                   10
(% of GDP)                                                                           0
Current revenue                                         32.5      22.8     23.2             91    92    93    94   95    99
Current budget balance                                  -3.7       3.2      3 7                     GDP def.     0CpI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -8.3       0.0      0.0
TRADE
(millions US$)                                1975     1985      1995      1996      Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                              .   22,931    79,542    96,000      100,000
Fuel                                           ..   14,767     8,423    11,654       0                              _
Agnculture                                      .    1,409     4,016     3,592      8
Manufactures                                         6,245    66,558    80,305      60,000 L 
Total imports (cif)                                   14,533    72,453   89,469      40000
Consumer goods                                 ..    1,082     5,335     6,657
Intermediate Manufactures                           10,287    58,421    71,890      20,000
Capital goods                                        3,165     8,697    10,922       |               9 ___93  94  95      6
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..      115                        |        s    1 9    3 9    s g
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       99                        I  Exports                  * Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        .       116         .             !
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(millions US$)                                1975     1985      1995      1996      Current account balance to GDP ratio
Exports of goods and services                6,066    27,726    89,207   106,779   [ o
Imports of goods and services                8,466    19,915    81,454    99,700    |1                             OF i
Resource balance                            -2,400     7,810    7,753     7,079     -2
Netfactorincome                             -1,783    -8,998   -13,290   -13,532    -3
Netcurrenttransfers                            141     1,986    3,960     4,531     -4
Current account balance,                                                             5
before official capital transfers         -4,124       800    -1,577    -1,922     6
Financing items (net)                        4,327    -3,223    11,167    3,690     *7 4
Changes in net reserves                       -204     2,423    -9,591    -1,768
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)              0    4,997    16,870    19,456
Conversion rate (local/US$)                    0.0       0.3       6.4      7.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996       -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(millions US$)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1996 (ml. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        18,230    96,867   166,104   157,125
IBRD                                       1,123    4,034    13,823    12,568
IDA                                            0        0         0         0                         A:12568
G: 30068
Total debt service                           2,613    15,293    26,887    40,786                                C:1327s
IBRD                                         116      597     2,372     2,372
IDA                                            0        0         0         0                                    D: -188
Composition of net resource flows                                                  I                               E13
Official grants                                8       78        31         0
Official creditors                           381      809    10,334    -7,793
Private creditors                          3,365     -831     5,995    12,107
Foreign direct investment                   609       491     9,526     8,169
Portfolio equity                               0        0       520     2,995                 F: 85085
World Bank program
Commitments                                  310      928      1,877      617      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                188      840      1,732    1,051      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          39      335     1,411     1,409      C -IMF                       G - Short-temm
Netflows                                     150      505       321      -359    L_I
Interest payments                             78      262       964       965
Net transfers                                 72      243      -643    -1,324
58



MAP SECTION



PR1                                                                     X.
i4h>                                                   rS                 +
I~~~~~~~~~~~~                              I ,V X                         I
0$  X  m
XL ''R  ia I | | | °           -4
C~ ~~<s                                       3f{gt3  tO                         '
} rn             (_o g \
m c>   \   rfPI   >  1t\:                                        O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



