                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                  Report No: 35850 - MX

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-43490)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300.00 MILLION

                                 TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.

                        GUARANTEED BY THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                                 FOR A

                             KNOWLEDGE AND INNOVATION PROJECT
                                            (Loan 4349-ME).




                                              June 27, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective June 22, 2006)

                                    Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                           MXN 1 = US$ 0.087

                                            US$ 1 = 11.45 MXN

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1     December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CONACYT  National Council for Science and Technology (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología)
  CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
 IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
  KIP    Knowledge and Innovation Project
  M & E  Monitoring and Evaluation
 NAFIN   Financial National (Nacional Financiera) a Mexican development bank
  NPV    Net Present Value
 PCU     Project Coordination Unit
 R&D     Research and Development
 RETO    Network for Efficiency and Organized Work (Red de Eficiencia y Trabajo Organizado)
 SME     Small and Medium Enterprise
 S&T     Scientific and Technological



                                  Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                                 Sector Director:     Makhtar Diop
                                Country Director:     Isabel M. Guerrero
                                 Sector Manager:      Susan G. Goldmark
                          Country Sector Leader:      Anna Wellenstein
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Esperanza Lasagabaster

                                           MEXICO
                     KNOWLEDGE AND INNOVATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 23
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38

Project ID: P044531                                                  Project Name: MEXICO: KNOWLEDGE AND
                                                                     INNOVATION
Team Leader: Esperanza Lasagabaster                                  TL Unit: LCSFR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: MEXICO: KNOWLEDGE AND INNOVATION L/C/TF Number: SCL-43490
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (53%); Tertiary education (22%); Micro- and SME finance
                            (13%); General industry and trade sector (12%)
                  Theme: Technology diffusion (P); Small and medium enterprise support (P); Education for the
                            knowledge economy (P); Other financial and private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/19/1997                                     Effective: 01/04/1999                03/02/1999
     Appraisal: 03/11/1998                                         MTR: 06/13/2001                  06/13/2001
      Approval: 06/16/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOM/CONACYT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Susan G. Goldmark                              Krishna Challa (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:             Esperanza Lasagabaster                         Daniel Crisafulli
ICR Primary Author:             C. Cesar Yammal; Esperanza
                                Lasagabaster


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of this project was to promote the generation, diffusion, and application of
knowledge for innovation in support of economic and social development. Emphasis was placed on
stimulation of linkages and effective diffusion of knowledge for innovation through:

l Supporting excellence in scientific and technological (S&T) research, increasing the availability
    of S&T human capital, and instituting an integrated strategy for development of fields of
    science of strategic importance to Mexico's economic and social development;
l Supporting increased firm-level productivity through provision of decentralized, demand-driven
    technological services for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) and creation of a pilot
    private sector-led venture capital scheme; and
l Facilitating linkages between private firms, universities and research institutions through
    financial support for joint activity and technical assistance to bridge institutions.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Although there were two amendments to the loan agreement (section 3.4), the original objective
remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of three components: (A) the Science and Technology Research Component;
(B) the Industry-University Linkage Component; and (C) the Enterprise Technology Enhancement
Component. The costs and Bank financing of the original and revised components are summarized
in Table 3.1. See also Table 2.C in Annex 2.


               Table 3.1 Original and revised financing, Knowledge and Innovation Project (US$M)

                                           Original design          First         Second        At closing
               Component                                         amendment      amendment
                                           Total       Bank
                                           Costs     financing   Bank financing Bank financing Bank financing

 A. Science and technology research            285        135              135            250            263

 B. Industry-University linkage                156          63               63             13             11

 C. Enterprise technology enhancement          191          73               73             25             18

 D. Unallocated                                 30          30               20              0              0

 E. Institutional strengthening                  --          --              10             12              8

 Total                                         663        300              300            300            300




                                                            - 2 -

Project Component A. Science and Technology Research
(original cost: US$285.00 million, IBRD US$135.00 million)

This component was to improve the quality, efficiency, and relevance of scientific and technological
research in Mexico through (i) consolidation and expansion of the peer-review evaluation system;
(ii) decentralization of decision-making and research, and better incentives for human resource
formation in research projects; and (iii) identification and promotion of new fields of research of
high social and economic priority to Mexico. There were three subcomponents:

A1. Support for research projects. This subcomponent was to promote quality in research, consolidate
and improve peer review, and participatory planning; encourage intensive human resource training;
and prioritize timely integration of young researchers in the system.

A2. Field development. This subcomponent was to support research areas which had not developed
under the traditional research support structure.        The subcomponent was to (i) finance the
formation of new research groups and networks; and (ii) give direct support to research projects.

A3. Special Programs. This subcomponent was to support a series of special programs to improve (i)
monitoring and evaluation and (ii) institutional capacity of CONACYT.

Project Component B. Industry-University Linkage
(original cost: US$156.44 million, IBRD US$62.50 million)

This component aimed at (i) increasing enterprise investment in science and technology by
strengthening relationships with academic and research institutions; (ii) improving the impact of
academic institutions on firm-level innovation and productivity; (iii) promoting the creation of
public goods through increased investment in R&D; and (iv) facilitating the interaction between the
academic and private sectors. There were three subcomponents:

B1. Restructuring of Public S&T Institutes. This subcomponent sought to enhance client orientation
and effectiveness of Public S&T institutes in support of industry, while increasing their cost
recovery.

B2. Joint Industry-Academic Projects. The subcomponent sought to enhance industry-academic bonds
by providing support for joint activities in applied research; product and process design,
development, and improvement; and technology adaptation and diffusion.

B3. Technical Assistance to Universities. Support would seek to strengthen university outreach offices.


Project Component C. Enterprise Technology Enhancement
(original cost: US$191.33 million, IBRD US$72.50 million)

The objective of this component was to directly impact the productivity and competitiveness of
firms, particularly small and medium enterprises (SMEs). It comprised four subcomponents:

C1. Technology Modernization Program. This subcomponent sought to foster technology modernization
of SMEs and develop an active market in technology services.


                                                   - 3 -

C2. Regional/Sector Technology Centers. This subcomponent aimed at improving local access to
technology services, primarily for SMEs, through selective support to private technology centers.

C3. Special pilot studies of emerging importance. The project was to finance pilot projects in support of
emerging policy priorities in the area of innovation.

C4. Pilot Venture Capital Fund. The Fund sought to fill a financing gap by providing equity
investment in start-up, technology based enterprises.

Assessment of project objectives and original components:

The project's development objective was fully consistent with Mexico's national strategy and the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of achieving growth with stability by helping accelerate
firm level productivity through the restructuring and development of a more efficient system of
knowledge and innovation. The alarming findings that average output per worker had fallen by
more than 20 percent between 1981 and 1994 gave high priority to policy measures seeking to spur
higher growth in total factor productivity. Science and technology investments, in particular private
investments, remained very low and the efficiency of the innovation system in channeling these
scarce resources into productive applications was weak. Thus, increasing the effectiveness and
raising total investments in science and technology became critical to raising the productivity of
Mexican firms.

In addition, the project supported the CAS goals of modernization of the state by seeking to
increase the effectiveness and transparency of public programs. It was also supportive of the CAS
goal of social development by fostering research and technological development in fields with an
important social impact.

Project design reflected its ambitious objective and the government's vision for a more coherent
and complete national innovation system. The design was comprehensive, covering three critical
areas along a supply-demand framework for innovation and technology: (i) promoting and
improving the quality of supply (Component A: Science and Technology Research); (ii) articulating the
demand (Component C: Enterprise Technology Enhancement); and equally important (iii) fostering stronger
linkages between the supply and demand for innovation and technology products and services
(Component B: Industry-University Linkage). Sectoral work conducted since the mid-1990s and during
project preparation had found important gaps and the need for interventions in all three areas.

The project rightly identified priority areas for intervention but overestimated CONACYT's
institutional capacity with regards to technology development activities, which constituted new areas
for the agency. The presence of too many subcomponents together with limited capacity tended to
focus the institution's attention in activities that were better aligned with its traditional mission, to
the detriment of others that may have been perceived as more challenging. This problem was
compounded by the fact that the project did not increase overall resources for CONACYT, rather
it involved a reallocation of the portfolio towards new areas of intervention. Also, project design
did not pay sufficient attention to dissemination activities. These challenges slowed down the
implementation of components B and C.




                                                         - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:

There were two amendments to the loan agreement and one extension of the closing date for 24
months until December 31, 2005. The amendments to the project were well justified, addressing
various implementation issues and building on the positive changes and momentum brought about
by the legal reform of the national innovation system in 2002. The extension allowed the
completion of project activities which had been delayed due to low disbursement during the
project's first two years of implementation. See Table 3.1 and Table A.2.3, Annex 2, for details on
reallocated amounts as a consequence of loan amendments.

Amendment 1

On September 18, 2002 the loan agreement was amended to modify the pari-passu and introduce
technical changes encompassing the following: (i) the percentage of research grant amounts
(Component A) financed by the Bank increased from 50% to 75%; (ii) research grants under the
framework of the Millennium Science Initiative (described in section 4.2, Outputs by component) and
grants for biotechnology were formally incorporated into Component A; (iii) the threshold and the
aggregate totals for the use of National Competitive Bidding procedures in procurement of goods
was raised; and (iv) the creation, responsibilities, and financing of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) were formalized.

As a consequence of this amendment, a new Component D (Institutional Strengthening) was added to
support the operation of the PCU and the implementation of a Government Resource Planning
system at CONACYT (section 4.2). Actual cost and IBRD financing for Component D were
US$9.6 million and US$7.7 million, respectively.         Most of this funding was allocated to the
development of the new resource planning system with very positive results in terms of
transparency and services to beneficiaries.

Amendment 2

In June 2002, Mexico enacted a new legal framework for the science and technology sector through
the following laws: (i) the Law for Science and Technology (Ley de Ciencia y Tecnología), and (ii) Law
for CONACYT (Ley Orgánica del CONACYT). The new laws led to a deep restructuring in the
allocation of public resources for science and technology and resulted in a major operational change
with the creation of the Sectoral Funds (Fondos Sectoriales), which are funds jointly operated by
CONACYT and the corresponding line ministry (agriculture, health, economy, energy, etc.).

A second amendment to the project was approved on June 6, 2003, to adapt the project to the legal
reforms of 2002 and recognize the low disbursements experienced within Components B and C.
(See Table 3.1 and Table A.2.3 in Annex 2).

A. The Science and Technology Research Component had performed highly satisfactorily
during the two years prior to the amendment and disbursed 76 percent of its initial funding of
US$135 million.      It was therefore agreed (i) to scale up the investment in research support,
particularly in the Millennium Science research initiatives and (ii) to add a new sub-component,
Scholarships for Graduate Studies, that would strengthen Mexico's capacity to generate new knowledge
and would support the project objectives. As a result, the total loan amount available to support


                                                   - 5 -

research projects increased by US$50.8 million to US$175.8 million, and US$71.6 million was
allocated to scholarships (see Table A.2.3, Annex 2). These increases were made through resources
freed from components B and C since the total loan envelope remained constant at US$300
million.

B. The Industry-University Linkage Component had only disbursed 4 percent of its funding by
2003. The new Science and Technology Law (2002) generated new momentum for strengthening
the public S&T institutes. It mandated the creation of external committees with private sector
participation for each center, which provided the necessary strategic leadership to reorient them.
With a more supportive incentive framework, the restructuring of the public S&T institutes could
be completed in a more cost-effective manner and with less technical assistance resources than
initially planned. The Joint Industry-Academic Projects sub-component was phased out due to its low
demand. It was estimated that the component could thus be completed using US$12.7 million
from the Bank loan, instead of US$62.5 million as originally planned.

C. The Enterprise Technology Development Component had disbursed only 17 percent of
allocated resources at the time of the second amendment. In addition, the goal of the Technology
Modernization subcomponent was being attained through the new Sectoral Fund for Economic
Development, created as a result of the Law for Science and Technology. The new fund, which
was co-financed by the Ministry of Economy and CONACYT, took over and scaled-up financing
of technology development projects in SMEs. It was therefore decided to conclude activities under
this sub-component and reallocate them to component A.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Overall project quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The project addressed the World
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives of growth with stability, modernization of the
State, and social development. Further, the Government had indicated strong support for the
project during the June 1997 Country Strategy and Implementation Review and continued to
advocate accelerated project preparation. CONACYT's senior management had undertaken a series
of initiatives showing their strong interest and commitment to the project, including the pilot
restructuring of four public research centers.

At the technical level, the project drew on (i) seven years of experience implementing the Mexico
Science and Technology Infrastructure Project (Loan 3475-ME); (ii) numerous analytical studies of
the Mexican Innovation System undertaken by CONACYT and the Bank during 1997-98, including
reports financed by the PHRD grant approved for project preparation; and (iii) contributions to
and assessment of project design by leading academics and experienced practitioners. Multiple
workshops were also held with external stakeholders including the private sector, academics and
young researchers.

In sum, the project had very strong government support and the main sector issues were correctly
identified. Project preparation, however, was not extensive enough and consultations with internal
stakeholders were less than sufficient. The project was prepared in an expeditious manner but at the
expense of a more thorough assessment of CONACYT's institutional capacity, especially in those
areas that concerned technology transfer to the private sector. CONACYT's organizational culture
was not adequately understood and project design did not address change management issues. The
new strategy was not sufficiently communicated to staff, who should have also participated more



                                                  - 6 -

actively in the design of new policy instruments. Although the establishment of the Directorate for
Technology Development predated the project and a new and dynamic director was brought on
board to lead it, the directorate was very small, did not have requisite human resources, and lacked
the experience needed for rapid implementation of Component C. Amounts allocated to
Components B and C were overestimated given CONACYT's capacity at the time. Also, project
design should have placed greater emphasis on dissemination efforts and on the relevancy of
performance indicators.

A combination of lack of clarity on implementation arrangements, rigidities in procurement
processes, inadequate internal consultations, and insufficient capacity of the nascent Directorate for
Technology Development led to delays in project implementation. Many of these issues were
solved during implementation with the creation of the Project Coordination Unit, strengthening of
the Directorate for Technology Development, and modifications to procurement processes. In
addition, the legal reforms approved in 2002 consolidated the project's vision for a more coherent
national innovation system and provided momentum to some areas that were moving slowly, in
particular, the restructuring of public S&T institutes and activities supporting technology transfer to
the private sector.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project's overall performance was moderately satisfactory with highly satisfactory outcomes in the
promotion of excellence in S&T research, the increased availability of S&T human capital, and the
development of new research fields; the successful launch of a pilot private sector-led venture
capital scheme; and modest achievements in the promotion of greater linkages between private
firms, universities, and research institutions. Achievements with regard to the promotion of
increased firm-level productivity through provision of decentralized, demand-driven technological
services for SMEs were very limited. In addition, the project contributed to the development and
implementation of a solid legal framework to support Mexico's national innovation system. These
achievements are further discussed below. (See also Annex I with further detail on performance
indicators.)

The objective of supporting excellence in scientific and technological (S&T) research, increasing the availability of
S&T human capital, and instituting an integrated strategy for development of fields of science was achieved in a highly
satisfactory manner. The project has made very substantial contributions to Mexico's knowledge base.
It has helped to deepen and consolidate reforms of science research funding, which were initiated
under the previous Science and Technology Infrastructure Loan. In line with international best
practices, a transparent and merit-based selection process for research projects is now in place and
accepted by the scientific community. Also, the project has promoted research in fields that were
traditionally overlooked and has greatly expanded the level of advanced human capital.
Furthermore, the legal reforms to Mexico's science and technology system (2002) have provided an
integrated and strategic framework for the development of fields of science.

The above is further evidenced by the following key sectoral outcomes. (See Annex 1.)

          ·       Increased scientific production. Mexico's scientific publications raised significantly both in
          absolute and relative numbers during the project period. In absolute terms, the number of



                                                        - 7 -

         international scientific articles published per year increased by 46 percent from 4,031 articles
         in 1998 to 5,885 articles in 2004. As a result, Mexico's share of worldwide scientific
         publications grew from 0.5 percent in 1998 to 0.76 percent in 2004.

         ·         Improved formation of highly skilled human capital and its insertion in the private sector. The
         project had a very positive impact on the overall stock of highly skilled human capital in
         Mexico. In 2004, 1,717 doctoral students completed their degrees, a jump of over 100%
         from 833 graduates in 1998. And, the number of doctoral graduates per million inhabitants
         increased by 78% in between 1998 and 2004.

         ·         Furthermore, the total number of researchers in Mexico climbed by 55 percent
         during the period 1998 and 2004, with numbers in the private sector growing at faster pace
         than in the public sector. As a result, the proportion of researchers in the private sector to
         total researchers almost doubled during the project life (from 17% in 1998 to 33% in 2004).
         The technological capacity of the private sector was therefore significantly strengthened.

There are clear links between the project, which provided 10 percent of CONACYT's funding
during its implementation period, and the aforementioned sectoral outcomes. CONACYT is the
single most important financial source for research projects in Mexico and funds 54 percent of
post-graduate scholarships, producing a similar level of PhD graduates, many of which become
researchers. The project's Young Researchers' Program (section 4.2.A) has also facilitated the
transition to a research career.

Achievements with regard to the objective of supporting increased firm-level productivity through provision of
decentralized, demand-driven technological services for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) and creation of a
pilot private sector-led venture capital scheme were moderately unsatisfactory. A pilot venture capital scheme
has been successfully established. The fund (with a US$6 million public contribution) has been able
to leverage US$20 million from the private sector, providing resources for start up technology
companies, all of which are still on-going and expanding. However, technological services
supported by the project (Technology Modernization Fund) only reached a limited number of
SMEs and a productivity analysis was not conducted. That said, preliminary findings of the Sectoral
Fund for Economic Development, which superseded the Technology Modernization Fund, suggest
that the fund is achieving the objectives of its predecessor, and a full impact evaluation and
productivity analysis will be available within the next few months.

The objective of facilitating linkages between private firms, universities and research institutions through financial
support for joint activity and technical assistance to bridge institutions was moderately achieved. The Public S&T
Institutes were successfully restructured and are now well integrated within Mexico's national
innovation system. They have expanded their linkages to the private sector, as evidenced by
increased level of self-generated income, which rose on average by 87 percent over the life of the
project. But, less than sufficient linkages between private firms and universities were developed in
the context of the project. Only a third of the estimated industry-academic projects were supported.
Those supported were quite successful. Sixteen new products were commercialized or processes put
into operation, and seven patents were filed.

In addition, the project contributed to the overall objective of "promoting the generation, diffusion and application of
knowledge for innovation in support of economic and social development" by facilitating the development and



                                                           - 8 -

subsequent implementation of a coherent legal framework for Mexico's science and technology system. The policy
work conducted during project preparation and early project implementation contributed to the
two legal reforms of 2002 (section 3.4). The new laws led to a fundamental restructuring of how
resources are allocated in science and technology and provided the basis for a more articulated
national innovation system. They resulted in a redistribution of responsibilities and better
coordination among relevant government entities.            New sectoral funds were created that: (i)
increased the relevance of research through a vastly improved definition of priorities; (ii) instituted
transparent and peer review-based selection processes; (iii) emphasized human capital formation;
and (iv) increased the overall amount of resources available for research. Prior to these changes,
innovation related funds were often assigned to line ministries without proper coordination and
were not subject to adequate guidelines to foster a transparent allocation of public resources.

Finally, CONACYT's mission has been broadened and the institution has embraced a holistic
approach towards science, technology and innovation, outcomes that the project supported during
preparation and implementation.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A. Science and Technology Research
(actual cost: US$445.88 million, or 156 percent of appraisal estimates; IBRD US$263.45
million)

The implementation of this component was highly satisfactory. The subcomponent supported the
successful implementation of a large number of research projects and promoted research in new
fields and traditionally neglected areas. Most importantly, the quality and relevance of research
projects substantially improved through the introduction of more efficient and transparent project
selection procedures and innovative funding mechanisms and initiatives. In addition, a substantial
number of human resources at the graduate level were formed through scholarships and research
project support, having created strong foundations for the generation of new knowledge.

Research Projects
(actual cost: US$359.41 million, IBRD: US$176.97 million).

The component supported CONACYT's research projects approved during the period 1998-2003,
a considerable volume of Research and Development (R&D) that can be viewed as an "engine" of
the Mexican Science and Technology system. At the institutional level, the project enhanced and
expanded the use of the peer reviewer system, whereby high-level expert committees were formed
in order to foster a professional and transparent selection of research projects. Highly recognized
international experts were invited to participate in these evaluation committees. As the project
advanced, Bank missions could appreciate the peer review system being used more fully and
effectively. These new selection mechanisms led to a more efficient and relevant allocation of public
funds for research and enhanced the quality of the research portfolio in Mexico. CONACYT also
established a Technical Secretariat to strengthen processes for evaluating research proposals. The
Secretariat comprised a number of experts that supported the evaluation committees and
coordinated peer reviewers. In addition to project evaluation, the Secretariat (later absorbed by the
Directorate for Science) helped to improve the monitoring and ex-post impact evaluation of funded
projects. Moreover, accountability for research results improved through follow-up seminars and
workshops to evaluate research output. The size of the average grant was increased permitting the


                                                     - 9 -

funding of new projects that were formerly ineligible and reducing the administrative burden
imposed on researchers.

An electronic management system was developed to process research grant proposals, streamlining
the selection process, decreasing ad hoc reviewer response times, and allowing for the enlargement
of the pool of potential reviewers (especially those residing outside Mexico). A total of five manuals,
addressing various aspects of the research process (inter alia proposal submission, selection,
monitoring and evaluation), were developed and widely distributed to the scientific community.

Although there is a considerable time lag between the approval and the outcomes of research
projects, preliminary results are very encouraging showing an upward trend that seems to be
consolidating. The number of research projects approved by CONACYT rose from an average of
598 projects per year in 1998/1999 to an average of 657 projects in the period 2002/2004. Table 4.2
shows the outcomes of projects approved during the period 1998-2000 with a significant rise in the
number of patents and published articles in indexed publications. The outcomes for later projects
are still being compiled and will appear in future reports.

         Table 4.2. Outcomes of Research Project Approved during 1998-2000

                                                                    Year of Project Approval
                        Indicator
                                                                 1998             1999           2000

 Number of approved projects1                                          604             592           615

 Number of graduate degrees produced2,       3                       1,386           1,773         2,118

 Number of post doctoral researchers involved                            23             22            49

 Number of published articles in indexed
 publications4                                                       2,793           4,867         4,288

 Number of patents                                                       10             27            25

 Number of repatriated or retained researchers4                        239             246           309

 Notes:
     1.   Source: CONACYT. Numbers for the years 2001-03 were not included as only preliminary
          data was available. However there is a clear upward trend
     2.   Number of specialization, master, and doctoral students that obtained their degrees while
          participating in supported projects
     3.   Source: SABPI Database
     4.   Source: CONACYT's Directorate for Science
 Source: SIPPIC Database




A critical "by-product" of these projects has been the formation of highly skilled human capital.
The number of "specialization" (one-year academic programs), master, and doctoral students that
obtained their degrees while participating in supported projects jumped from 1,386 in 1998 to 2,118
in 2000, a notable 53 percent increase. There was a marked increase in the number of post-doctoral
researchers involved in the projects, which is crucial to the development of the research system.
Also, it provided more opportunities for recent PhD graduates. Finally, the number of publications
and patents increased by more than 50 percent compared to the baseline.




                                                           - 10 -

In addition to funding "traditional" research projects, the project fostered new areas and modes of
research, including (i) biotechnology projects, (ii) the Millennium Science Initiative (to promote centers
of research excellence), (iii) projects in new fields of research and (iv) the Young Researchers program.
These initiatives supported research in areas of crucial socio-economic importance that had
traditionally been neglected in favor of the politically stronger, but perhaps not equally relevant,
disciplines of research. In all cases, funding was significant and multi-year (2-4 years) permitting a
major research impact. An international committee was formed to evaluate proposals in the above
areas in conformity with international best practices, assuring greater objectivity and professional
standards. The Millennium Science and new field development initiatives were later absorbed into
the regular calls for proposals for research projects.

The call for proposals for biotechnology concentrated in the areas of agriculture and plants, health and
molecular medicine, environment and bioremediation, and biodiversity. Twelve out of 48 proposals
were selected and funded at a level close to US$3 million each. The Millennium Science Initiative
program provided financing of US$1-1.5 million for each of the following four projects, selected
out of 120 pre-proposals:

·       Signaling, plasticity, and neurogeneration in the central nervous system;
·       Access to digital services and information for large communities of users;
·       High energy physics; and
·       Physical-chemical studies of new nano-structured materials.

Table 4.3 enumerates projects supported under New Fields of Research with an approximate funding
of US$2 million each. Four projects were selected in each of the two calls for proposals, out of 163
and 43 pre-proposals respectively. The projects emphasized research in applied molecular biology
with a potentially high socio-economic impact.




                                                    - 11 -

                                     Table 4.3. Field Development Projects

                               Project                                                  Host Institutions

 Development of Genomics in Mexico: Rhizobium Etli's genome as a
 model system                                                          National Autonomous University, Morelos Campus


 Medicinal Molecular Program in Gene Therapy                           National Nutrition Institute Salvador Zubirán


 Biomolecular Materials                                                Autonomous University San Luis Potosí and
                                                                       Sonora University

 Radio-astronomic Interpherometry                                      National Autonomous University, Morelia Campus

 Material Science and Engineering applied to Petroleum Exploration
 and Exploitation in Mexico                                            National Autonomous University


 Biotechnology for the Genetic Improvement of Maize                    National Polytechnic Institute

 Development of Vaccines and Analog Receptors against Emerging
 Infections                                                            National Nutrition Institute Salvador Zubirán

 Cell Engineering and Biodiversity: optimization of cellular processes
 to increase the production of molecules of commercial interest        National Autonomous University




The Young Researchers program has proven a highly effective tool to assist the best young Mexican
researchers returning home from abroad or graduating from a domestic Ph.D. program. This
program allowed for the return or retention of between 200 and 300 young researchers per year
(Table 4.2). In the case of recent Ph.D. graduates, the project offered equipment and materials to
launch a research project of their own, while the host university committed to providing staff
positions for them. Hence, young researchers were offered attractive professional opportunities to
return to Mexico.

Scholarships for Graduate Studies
(actual cost: US$86.47 million, IBRD: US$86.47 million).

The subcomponent was successful in increasing the stock of advanced human capital (Table 4.4).
Graduate studies were mainly conducted at the doctoral and master levels, and also included studies
at the specialization level.          CONACYT was responsible for supporting about 54 percent of
post-graduate scholarships in Mexico in 2005. The share of support to PhD students rose from an
average of 39 percent of all scholarships in 1998/1999 to an average of 46 percent in the period
2002/2004. This is a positive trend since doctoral level programs influence national skill production
the most, generally producing high knowledge spill-over but marginal private returns.




                                                               - 12 -

                Table 4.4. Indicators related to supported Scholarships for Graduate Studies


             Indicator             1998      1999        2000     2001       2002      2003       2004     2005


   Graduate students
   benefited1,                     9,085      9,950     10,897   11,934     12,371    13,484    16,816    19,243
              2



   Doctoral graduates/ million
   inhabitants3                       8.7        8.5      11.0      10.6       12.2     13.8      15.5       n.a.


   Notes:
       1.    From 2001 on, the series only registers active scholarship recipients and excludes scholarships that
             were cancelled or temporarily inactive.
       2.    Source: General Science and Technology Report, 2004. CONACYT
       3.    Source: Survey of doctoral graduates, 2005. CONACYT



In addition, the project supported the formulation and implementation of a new strategy for the
formation of human capital. The main elements of the strategy were: (i) to strengthen linkages with
market demand for graduates, particularly the private sector; (ii) focus on efficiency and improved
graduation rates which reached 90%; and (iii) insert graduates in the labor market, with a tracking
information system being implemented.

In 2004, CONACYT undertook an evaluation of the scholarship program including a beneficiary
survey. The evaluation found that the scholarship program is essential for the production of
doctoral graduates in Mexico since 90 percent of the beneficiaries reported that they would not
have pursued further studies without financial assistance. Also, the survey revealed a high degree of
satisfaction with the program's requirements (83 percent) and selection methods (78 percent), but
an acceptable degree of satisfaction with the amount (65 percent) and the length of financial
support (62 percent). These responses are indicative of a well-functioning program that provides
adequate but not generous financial support.

B. Industry-University Linkage
(actual cost: US$13.89 million, or 9 percent of appraisal estimates; IBRD: US$11.04 million)

The implementation of this component was moderately satisfactory. The main accomplishment was
the restructuring of the Public S&T Institutes.              In addition there were two other subcomponents,
Technological Assistance to Universities (a small activity) and Joint Industry-Academic Projects, which
provided funding for collaborative projects led by companies. The last subcomponent resulted in a
few successful collaborations between academic centers and the private sector, but its overall reach
was very modest partly due to insufficient dissemination, the lack of an innovative culture in
companies, and scarce tradition of working with public research centers. Despite these limitations,
it provided some useful lessons and helped to create the institutional capacity within CONACYT to
launch subsequent initiatives to continue strengthening linkages between research centers and the
private sector (e.g., consortia programs).

Restructuring of Public S&T Institutes
(actual cost: US$10.11 million, IBRD: US$7.28 million)



                                                              - 13 -

The restructuring of public S&T institutes (CONACYT research centers) was achieved.                                  The
centers improved the technological relevance of their research and were able to increase the level of
self-generated income. The program commenced in 1997 with four pilot technology centers
carrying out a strategic review and a business planning exercise. Gradually, the rest of the institutes
developed a business plan and underwent a restructuring with significant progress in the
organizational, financial, human resource and commercial areas which resulted in productivity gains.
They also received critical research equipment. The restructuring process accelerated with the 2002
legal reforms, which granted operational autonomy to the institutes and mandated the creation of
an external Board of Directors for each center with local and international representatives from the
productive sector. The new committees brought strategic leadership to the centers and their
restructuring process. The head of the public S&T institutes are now appointed by the Board,
replacing the traditional practice of largely "political" appointees who were not always suitable for
the job. As a result, the restructuring of these centers was achieved with less resources than initially
programmed.

The restructuring of the institutes was instrumental in increasing the relevance of research and
outreach to users. In particular, it promoted a change of behavior towards industry needs through
the provision of new services, collaborative R&D projects and placement of highly qualified
graduates at private firms, who became critical linkages between the centers and the companies.
Very importantly, the quality of the scientific staff at the institutes improved. The share of
researchers participating in the National Researchers System increased from 43 percent in 1998 to
52 percent in 2003 (Table 4.5). Scientific production rose from 1,356 scientific articles in 1998 to
1,636 articles in 2003, an increase of 21 percent.

                                     Table 4.5 Public S&T Institutes: Evolution of Key Indicators

                                 Indicator                          1998     1999     2000      2001  2002    2003

   Number of S&T institutes                                            28       28        28       29    27      27

   Scientific staff in the National Researchers System1
   (as percent of total scientific staff)                            43.1     44.2      31.7     32.5  38.4    51.5

   Number of scientific articles published                          1,356    1,237     1,220    1,235 1,365   1,636

   Source: Institutes' Annual Reports, 1998-2003
   Notes: The National Researchers System provides financial incentives to the best researchers in Mexico, selected
   through competitive mechanisms.



During the project period, self-generated resources of the publicly funded S&T centers grew on
average by 87 percent, constituting 30 percent of their total funding by the end of the project, up
from 20 percent in 1998. At the 10 scientific centers, self-generating resources increased by 68
percent during the 1998-2005 period. On average, nine technological centers almost doubled the
resources generated through provision of paid services to industry--a strong indicator of enhanced
client orientation. These results were largely achieved through improved strategic planning and
management practices, which the project supported.

Joint Industry-Academic Projects
(actual cost: US$2.68 million, IBRD: US$2.68 million).



                                                                    - 14 -

The PAIDEC program (Programa de Apoyo a Proyectos Conjuntos de Investigación y Desarrollo) supported
33 company-led applied research and experimental development projects in 32 companies covering
product and process development. CONACYT had estimated to support 95 projects through this
3-year long program, but insufficient promotion slowed demand. Despite the small number of
beneficiaries, PAIDEC's results were positive. An independent study that evaluated the project's
technology development component (Gorraez, 2005) found that more than half of the beneficiaries
had not entered into collaborative projects with research institutions before. According to the
study, 74 percent of the surveyed companies reported a positive experience of collaboration with
research institutions. Many of the beneficiaries later continued collaborative work on their own.

As a result of the program, sixteen new products were commercialized or new processes were put
in operation, and seven patents were filed. In addition, beneficiary companies hired 12 professionals
with advanced degrees, an indicator of the value attached to advanced knowledge and human capital
by participating firms.

Technical Assistance to Universities
(actual cost: US$1.11 million, IBRD: US$1.08 million).

Out of 129 proposals received, the PROVINC Program (Programa de Apoyo a la Vinculación con la
Academia) supported 37 technology transfer units at universities and CONACYT centers in the
form of technical assistance and investment in information technology to promote outreach to the
private sector. By the end of the project, 32 units continued operations (the remaining units were
either decentralized to individual schools or discontinued due to the lack of university funding). The
interventions were cost effective at an investment level of US$20,000 per university for two years.
All units developed and implemented a business plan with PROVINC support. The unit services
with highest private sector demand were training/continued education, consulting and laboratory
services.

By the end of the program, 9 technology transfer units had filed a total of 24 patents. Also, 8 units
had successfully implemented a PAIDEC funded project demonstrating that they could serve as a
bridge for collaborative research with industry.

C. Enterprise Technology Enhancement
(actual cost: US$58.64 million, or 31 percent of appraisal estimates; IBRD: US$17.8 million)

The implementation of this component was moderately unsatisfactory. The component launched a
series of new initiatives to encourage small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to "catch up"
technologically and increase productivity. Interventions addressed both demand needs (the
Technology Modernization Program) and improvements in the supply of technological services
(Regional/Sector Technology Centers). Overall, these two subcomponents offered some positive
demonstration effects; the best technological centers, for example, can be models for similar
centers to be established throughout the nation. These subcomponents, however, operated on a
small scale and were not able to affect national outcomes. The Technology Modernization Program
was subsequently replaced by the Sectoral Fund for Economic Development. Preliminary data
suggests that the fund is reaching the objectives of the previous program. In addition, a venture
capital scheme was piloted filling a crucial financing gap for start up technology companies.



                                                       - 15 -

Technology Modernization Program
(actual cost: US$29.67 million, IBRD: US$14.22 million)

The Technological Modernization Program increased technological capacity of participating firms but was
able to reach a limited number of SMEs. The program provided matching grants for projects
implemented by 887 SMEs, 64 percent of which were small companies. During the period
1998-2001, 1,008 projects were approved, of which 780 were fully implemented: 59 percent of
SMEs implemented one project, 37 percent two projects, and 4 percent implemented three
projects. With the help of consultants, the enterprises produced "initial technology assessments"
that served not only to design program supported projects, but also to stimulate and guide future
projects with the companies' own resources. The average grant amount was US$20,000 with firms
contributing an equivalent amount. The three most important activities supported by the project
were ISO certifications, process optimization, and reengineering (Figure 4.1). According to the
survey carried out by Gorraez (2005), beneficiaries reported that the most important results were
productivity improvements followed by increased sales and number of clients.


      Figure 4.1 Technology Modernization Projects:
                              Distribution by Type of Activity
                          20
                          18
                          16
                          14
                          12
                          10
                            8

           Percentage       6
                            4
                            2
                            0

                                                                                   IT
                           Quality                                                   Others
                                                    control PracticesProductivity
                            optimization
                                      Reengineering     Best
                                             Process

                     Process                       Activity



The bulk of participating SMEs (78 percent) belonged to the manufacturing sector (Figure 4.2).
Within this sector, demand was concentrated in the four most dynamic sub-sectors
(metal/mechanic, chemical, food processing and textiles), which were also facing strong external
competition.




                                                                                            - 16 -

                 Figure 4.2 Technology Modernization Projects:
                                      Distribution by Economic Sector

                                18
                                16
                                14
                                12
                                10
                                   8
                                   6
                    Percentage     4
                                   2
                                   0


                                                       Textiles           fish         ServicesLogistics Others
                              mechanic Chemicalprocess                       Commerce
                                         Food                      forest/
                 Metal/                                manufacturing
                                                             Agri/
                                                  Other                Sector



The program faced the challenge of ensuring a wide geographical outreach. Broadly speaking, the
geographic distribution of beneficiaries was correlated with the intensity of manufacturing activity at
the state level: 59 percent of completed projects corresponded to the four states with the highest
density of manufacturing activity, contributing 47 percent of the GDP (Figure 4.3). Perhaps,
another factor explaining the geographic concentration of beneficiaries was that an insufficient
number of program promoters was identified and trained. By the end of the program, there were
17 active promoters with clear limitations to cover 31 states plus the Federal District.


                  Figure 4.3 Technology Modernization Projects:
                                                  Geographical Distribution

                   30

                   25

                   20

                   15


       Percentage  10

                              5

                              0


                              Jalisco                                                    Leon          Others
                                     deMexico      Federal   Guanajuato   Queretaro Nuevo
                                Edo.       Distrito                 State


The component could have been more effective and could have reached a far larger number of



                                                                                                           - 17 -

firms with a more proactive dissemination program and higher grant amounts. These limitations
were corrected when the fund was absorbed and scaled-up by the Sectoral Fund for Economic
Development, jointly administered by CONACYT and the Ministry of Economy.

During the period 2002-2005, the Economic Sectoral Fund supported a total number of 267 projects,
43 per cent of which corresponded to small enterprises. Financing amounted to 654 million pesos
or close to 62 million dollars. Of these, 44.5 percent of projects invested in the development of new
products and services; 34.8 in new processes or technologies; and the remainder in the development
of technology centers.       Each million pesos invested by the Fund has leveraged an additional
investment of 1.8 million pesos by private firms, has resulted in new sales of 20 million pesos, and
the creation of 7.7 new jobs, twenty-five percent of which are highly specialized technical jobs.
These findings are very promising, and the government is preparing itself to conduct a more-in
depth evaluation of the program's additionality over the next few months.

Regional/Sector Technology Centers
(actual cost: US$2.28 million, IBRD: US$2.28 million)

This subcomponent created six sector technology centers and strengthened four existing centers.
The ten centers are currently operational, while seven of them are already established as sustainable
operations with continued increased revenues. All of them are privately owned with a total of 146
entrepreneurs and firms having participated in their establishment. In 2004, they extended
technological services to about 1,000 firms. The centers focus on specific economic sectors, namely
food industry; agriculture; chemical/petrochemical; furniture; telecommunications; metal mechanic
and automobile; and pharmaceutical. Five centers are laboratories for tests, analyses, and
certification; two centers concentrate in agricultural research; another one performs quality systems
evaluations and certification; another functions mainly as a broker for technological services; and
another supports process and product technology development.

                           Table 4.6 Regional and Sector Technology Centers supported by the Project

                       Foundry and Machinery Institute of Jalisco  Biotechnology Unit of Valle de Zamora

                       Agricultural Association of Río Fuerte del
                       Sur                                         BAMBUVER


                       LAAIF GOMCO Group                           Research and Development Center
                                                                   GIRSA

                       Cheese Producers Menonita                   Mexican Institute of Norms and
                                                                   Certification

                       Council for the Quality Promotion of Milk
                       and Derivatives                             Laboratories LATTICE




Benefiting from project support, two centers achieved quality systems certification, four centers
have their processes certified, and two additional centers partially certified. Finally, two centers
generated patents: GIRSA with four patents and the Foundry and Machinery Institute of Jalisco
with one patent.

These centers have been successful in providing critical technological services to enterprises, mainly



                                                         - 18 -

SMEs, but looking forward they need to expand their geographical outreach and/or new centers
need to be created. Three centers are located in Jalisco, two in Distrito Federal and one in each of
the following states: Estado de México, Chihuahua, Veracruz, Michoacán and Sinaloa.

Pilot Venture Capital Fund
(actual cost: US$26.65 million, IBRD: US$1.27 million).

The venture capital fund was established after a lengthy, but worthwhile process, as a partnership
between CONACYT and NAFIN. CONACYT funds up to 20 percent of a given venture and
provides technical evaluation of start-ups requesting financing. NAFIN administers the fund and
convenes private sector investors (for example, angel investors and private venture firms) to
leverage public funds. Three companies were supported in 2004 and four companies in 2005
leveraging private sector investments of about ten million dollars each year. These enterprises
operate in the fields of information and communication technologies, electronics, and aeronautics.

This technology venture capital fund builds on NAFIN's long trajectory with venture capital funds.
The fund incorporates best practices: (i) an exhaustive due-diligence process with the participation
of highly experienced business advisors; (ii) active involvement of angel investors in the boards of
beneficiary firms; and (iii) training on corporate governance for entrepreneurs, which is resulting in
increasingly professional management teams and board of directors. The fund's operational
guidelines detail rules for participation in company ownership and exit options. Typically, public
investments in beneficiary firms are in the range of US$ 250,000-500,000, about 4-8 percent of total
shares, and proportional voting rights. Exit options include the re-purchase of shares within a
three-year period, valuated using discounted cash flows or comparisons to similar companies, at
nominal value plus about a 25 percent annual rate of return.

The fund combines CONACYT's technological knowledge and NAFIN's experience with venture
capital funds. It has adopted best practices, attracted much interest by angel investors, and appears
to be filling a crucial financing gap for new technological firms. The amount of private sector
resources leveraged is a positive indication of the fund's performance. A more complete evaluation
will be provided in the future once several companies have been spun off.

D. Institutional Strengthening
(actual cost: US$9.62 million, IBRD: US$7.71 million)

The implementation of this component was satisfactory.Most importantly, this component supported
a major reengineering and integration of CONACYT's information technology systems, an initiative
known as RETO (Red de Eficiencia y Trabajo Organizado or Network for Efficiency and Organized
Work). RETO has been crucial in increasing the cohesiveness of CONACYT's programs across
departments, which translates into a better allocation of resources and improved services to its
beneficiaries. See section 4.5 for details on RETO's institutional impact. It also supported the
establishment of a project coordination unit (PCU) in 2002 which greatly facilitated project
implementation and contributed to the resolution of the procurement issues referred to in section
5. The PCU was established at CONACYT within the Finance and Administration Directorate, and
staffed by consultants who worked very closely with all of CONACYT's directorates.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:




                                                  - 19 -

Estimating precise rates of return for R&D investments undertaken in the project is difficult, but
overall project results indicate that activities were cost-effective. The impact of available resources
was maximized through the implementation of increasingly efficient and higher quality activities.
The empirical literature also provides evidence that R&D investments result in higher social returns
than investments in physical capital (for example, Lederman and Maloney (2003) and Griliches
(1992)).

On the Science and Technology component, improved procedures supported by the project point to
substantial gains in efficiency, quality, and relevancy of research. Efficiency has been improved
through better selection of research projects by applying a more stringent and transparent peer
reviewer system. This together with an increase in the average grant amount and extension of the
implementation period has resulted in a higher concentration of resources in fewer but better
projects and has reduced the administrative cost imposed on researchers, who used to spend
substantial time applying for numerous small grants. On the Restructuring of Public S&T Centers
(Component B), their greater reliance on private financing points to the higher relevancy of their
research. Also, the production of scientific articles and number of patents resulting from research
grants as well as from the restructuring of S&T centers increased. Benefitting from the governance
reforms, the restructuring of these institutes was achieved in a more cost effective manner than
initially planned. However, it is difficult to estimate the precise value and rate of return of the above
activities due to commercialization lags and other challenges in quantifying scientific output.

The Scholarship for Graduate Studies program (Component A) was also very cost-effective, producing a
large number of graduates at the doctoral level with a very high completion rate (90 percent). And,
as supported by the economic literature, formation of advanced human capital is a key driver of
technical progress (De Ferranti et al. 2003).

On the Technology Modernization Program (component C), ex-post investment recovery rates of
technological investments by private firms are estimated in the range of 80-100 percent and more
than 60 percent have continued to implement technological investments after the project. But, an
impact analysis on enterprise productivity was not implemented. CONACYT is working on a new
impact methodology for the Sectoral Fund for Economic Development that superseded this program. On
the venture capital fund, a US$6 million public contribution has been successful in raising an
additional US$20 million in private financing; all beneficiary firms are still on-going and their
revenues are rising. A further evaluation of the rate of return will be available when firms start to
spin off.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact was substantial. In particular, the program was able to enhance
substantially CONACYT's institutional capacity. It helped to strengthen its key operational
directorates, especially the Directorate for Technology, which evolved from a very small team to a
full-fledge Directorate. The Directorate for Technology has now acquired the requisite capacity to
implement a substantial component to promote business innovation under the follow-up
Innovation for Competitiveness Loan (Credit 72960). As a result of the project, the Directorate for



                                                   - 20 -

Science is applying best international standards for the management of science and research
programs under its purview.

The introduction of the RETO management information system enhanced CONACYT's overall
operational capabilities.    RETO achieved the reengineering, standardization and integration of
CONACYT's key business processes, which correspond to the different stages of the project cycle,
from call for proposals, selection, and monitoring and evaluation. All processes can be accessed
through an internet portal. CONACYT also implemented an ISO 9001-2000 quality management
system obtaining the corresponding certification by the end of 2004. Improvements in efficiency,
organizational capacity, and customer service are further evidenced by the nomination of
CONACYT as a finalist for the INTRAGOB award in 2005, which is a competition on quality
management among government agencies.

The quality of management and research capabilities at the public S&T centers improved
substantially resulting in higher client responsiveness and greater access to private sector financing.
Moreover, several of these centers are now ready to participate in the consortia program (intended
to link firms and public research centers) that will be implemented as part of the aforementioned
follow-up operation. The regional/sectoral technology centers supported by the program are
offering highly needed technological services to about 1,000 firms per year, and the best ones could
serve as models for similar centers that should be established around the country.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no major external factors that affected project implementation and outcomes, barring
procurement arrangements. The inadequacy of procurement arrangements for the Research Projects
sub-component became an obstacle to smooth project implementation.               Initially, the project
followed decentralized procurement guidelines but these proved ineffective as discussed below
(section 5.3). There was an attempt to overcome these difficulties by defining new procurement
rules that consolidated purchases of scientific equipment into packages, as it is commonly used with
standardized items. Scientific equipment, however, is usually highly customized to the specificities
of particular research disciplines and is often provided by few providers or even a sole provider.
The "packaging" of purchases implied that researchers frequently needed to modify their equipment
request and select a second or third best option to fit the package and wait for a long period while
the process was being conducted, only to often find out that there were no bidders. These
implementation rigidities slowed down activities and caused dissatisfaction among beneficiaries.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Successive governments showed a strong support for the project during its preparation and
implementation phases. Moreover, the 2002 legal reforms to the S&T system were fully consonant
with the project's objectives, seeking to establish a more effective national innovation system,
increase the overall amount of resources available for S&T, and promote their more efficient use
(section 3.4). They helped to accelerate some of the project activities that were lagging behind. The
project was subsequently amended to be better aligned with this important and positive legal
reform.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



                                                     - 21 -

Project design called for decentralized procurement by the beneficiaries, which required extensive
training and oversight, especially of universities participating in the Science and Technology Research
Component. CONACYT, however, was not ready for these responsibilities and did not provide
sufficient training and monitoring. Compliance with the project's procurement rules turned out to
be weak. This led to the issuance of new procurement rules, which also proved inadequate for the
project's needs and slowed implementation of the Science and Technology Research Component, as
discussed in 5.1.

Initial procurement delays were compounded by the dispersion of implementation responsibilities
among the different CONACYT directorates with technical oversight for project components. As a
consequence, insufficient attention was paid to administrative and general management duties. This
situation was substantially changed at the beginning of 2002 with the creation of the PCU, which
assumed responsibility for overall project management in close coordination with the technical
directorates.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project was implemented with a total cost of US$528 million, equivalent to 80% of the
appraisal estimate of US$663 million (Table A.2.1, Annex 2), while the disbursement of the loan
amount totaled US$300 million, exactly as planned.             Taking into consideration the size and
complexity of the project, the final cost is very close to the appraisal estimate. However, there were
important reallocations between components, which were justified, responding to changes in the
environment in which the project was implemented and to the relative demand for project activities
(see section 3.4).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the project is highly likely. Institutional changes supported by the project are fully
consolidated, and in many cases they are being further enhanced. The new practices for granting
support for research projects are now fully institutionalized and recognized by CONACYT and the
academic community. CONACYT continues to support scholarships programs, increasingly
upgrading its practices to target them to graduate programs of excellent quality and high relevance
for the private sector. CONACYT is utilizing the RETO system to its full potential and is planning
to further upgrade it in the context of the follow up operation.

The public S&T centers are exploring opportunities for further collaboration with industry through
the new consortia program. The Technology Modernization Program was superseded by the
Sectoral Fund for Economic Development, which is jointly administered by CONACYT and the
Ministry of Economy. The new sectoral fund benefited from the lessons learned during the
implementation of its predecessor program. Seven of the Regional/Sector Technology Centers
have already reached sustainability, while their revenue continues to expand. Several of these
efforts are being supported in the follow up operation--Innovation for Competitiveness Program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
n/a.




                                                    - 22 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Lending performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. As noted earlier, project design responded to
strong government demand and was fully consistent with the Bank's CAS. It included lessons
learned from the previous operation (Mexico Science and Technology Infrastructure Project) and
took full advantage of sectoral work undertaken prior and in parallel to project preparation. It also
benefited from a wide range of consultations with external stakeholders.

Preparation, however, did not allow sufficient time to undertake a careful assessment of
CONACYT's capacity to implement reforms and new instruments and thus overestimated
resources for Components B and C. Also, consultations with internal stakeholders on the change
process were insufficient. More efforts should have been made to understanding change
management and creating capacity within CONACYT's technical directorates prior to launching the
new instruments.

7.2 Supervision:

The supervision of the project was moderately satisfactory. The Bank team comprised a multisectoral
team (including participation from the private sector and human development networks) and highly
recognized international specialists. Counterparts acknowledged on numerous occasions the
valuable technical assistance provided by the team. But, changes in task managers affected
supervision at times. Attention from Bank management was adequate and responsive to
implementation challenges and supportive of amendments to address pitfalls or to adapt the project
to the new Science and Technology Law (2002).            Bank management too provided adequate
resources for project supervision.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The project was fully supportive of the CAS goals
and design benefitted from a strong body of analytical work, but project preparation did not pay
adequate attention to institutional capacity issues. During supervision, the Bank worked proactively
with CONACYT in identifying solutions to various bottlenecks, although greater continuity in task
managers would have been desirable.          Overall, the Bank's dialogue during preparation and
implementation contributed to improvements in the design and implementation of CONACYT's
instruments and public policies to support innovation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The performance of the government during project preparation is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The
government and CONACYT's leadership were strongly committed to the project objectives to
enhance the relevancy and effectiveness of S&T resources and to foster stronger bonds between
research institutions and the productive sector. They advocated for expeditious project preparation
and actively engaged with the Bank team. Limited attention, however, was paid to the capacity of
the respective technical teams at CONACYT and their understanding of the reform process.
Management's vision was not sufficiently communicated to staff, who became concerned about the



                                                 - 23 -

new policy directions and their impact on CONACYT's traditional areas of intervention. Staff was
not adequately prepared for the reform, which slowed down the launch of new policy instruments.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

The implementation performance of the government is rated satisfactory. Project implementation
spanned two government administrations, both of which gave high priority to the project.
Moreover, the enactment of the new Science and Technology Law (2002) testifies to the highest
level of political commitment to support reforms in the S&T system. As noted above, the law
brought about a profound change on how resources are allocated for science and technology and
created the basis for improved coordination within the national innovation system. Also, it helped
to accelerate some of the reforms envisioned in the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The overall performance of the implementing agency is rated moderately satisfactory. The project
spanned several management teams, which consistently showed very strong commitment to the
project. A number of pitfalls, however, emerged in the early years of implementation with
responsibilities dispersed throughout the institution and with inadequate attention paid to change
management. There was no close monitoring of procurement activities by beneficiaries early on.

Management responded to these challenges by creating a strong and very professional Project
Coordination Unit in 2002. As stated in section 4.2.D, the unit was instrumental in helping to
address procurement difficulties, ensuring closer project oversight, and helping to realize synergies
among various project components. The Unit became an important liaison between the Bank and
the various technical directorates. It also implemented several institutional building activities, in
particular the establishment of an integrated management information system (RETO). Throughout
project implementation, various technical directorates were strengthened as well.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.The project benefitted from high
commitment by the government and CONACYT's leadership during both project preparation and
implementation.       But, change management was not adequately conceived which slowed down
activities during the early years of project implementation until various gaps were addressed.

8. Lessons Learned

·        Building up human resource and research capacity is a long-term endeavor that requires concerted public
efforts. Mexico is reaping the benefits of continued investment in these areas, positioning itself as a
Latin American leader in terms of production of advanced human capital. The S&T capacity
building strategy has been reinforced by CONACYT's co-funding of scholarships and research
grants with state governments (Mixed Funds) and line ministries (Sectoral Funds). This is an
example to be considered by other countries, as a way to leverage the use of public resources,
increase policy coherence and maximize development impact.

·        Effective support programs for private sector technology development need adequate time for demand to be
properly articulated. The private sector does not have sufficient awareness and understanding of


                                                       - 24 -

technology and R&D issues, which slows implementation of these programs. And, it frequently
lacks confidence in government programs, especially if R&D support in the past has been volatile.
Confidence needs to be rebuilt which requires time. The programs should also allow resources to
help to finance the formulation of new technological projects due to private sector weaknesses in
technological areas.

·        Related to the above, the importance of dissemination activities cannot be underestimated. The successful
implementation of new S&T programs requires well-designed dissemination programs that are able
to reach targeted beneficiaries. Dissemination activities, however, were perceived as secondary and
not pursued actively enough hindering the potential impact of the Technology Modernization
component and the Industry-Academy Linkage subcomponents. The mechanisms for promoting
private demand under the Technology Modernization Component were also cumbersome and
inadequate to reach a large number of companies.

·        Project design should be simple and flexible to facilitate implementation and allow the project to adapt to
changing conditions and emerging opportunities. Operations benefit from having a simple structure with a
limited number of components and subcomponents, each with a clear and strategic focus. The
Knowledge and Innovation Project had too many different subcomponents, some of which were
very small, complicating implementation. The new Science and Technology Law involved
institutional changes which created opportunities to enhance the allocation of S&T resources.
Mid-way through implementation, the Knowledge and Innovation Project was adapted to take into
account the new framework.

·        Project design needs to define clear performance indicators which are closely connected to project objectives and
interventions. The Knowledge and Innovation Project indicators were not clear and comprehensive
enough at the outset, and these had to be discussed during implementation. Moreover, performance
indicators of policy interventions in the area of innovation are often hard to identify since most of
these interventions have a long time lag before results and positive spillovers can be fully observed.
Further analysis in this area is necessary.

·        Effective change management is crucial to foster successful organizational change. While project design
included a careful assessment of fiduciary arrangements and related capacity, change management
aspects and the organizational culture were not properly taken into account. Adequate
communication and engagement of staff in the development of new policies, processes and
products are critical to facilitate institutional and organizational change and prevent resistance from
internal stakeholders.

·        Procurement rules need to be customized to project needs. Procurement of scientific equipment is
much more specialized than other types of procurement. Rules for procuring scientific tools should
be flexible enough to permit the acquisition of the most suitable pieces of equipment, while
maintaining transparency and adequate ex-post controls. A pilot with the Universidad Nacional
Autónoma de México allowed for direct purchases of small equipment and scientific inputs costing less
than US$5,000, a flexibility that was needed due to the trial and error nature of experimentation,
often requiring to buy different consumables depending on the results of a given experiment.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                                         - 25 -

CONACYT (Implementing agency)

From the standpoint of CONACYT, the implementation of the Knowledge and Innovation
Project is considered satisfactory, taking into account all its facets and a comprehensive view of its
development and implementation.

Financing from multilateral agencies is part of the Mexican government's financing strategy.
CONACYT has been part of this strategy during approximately the last 14 years, through the
implementation of projects seeking to strengthen the country's scientific, technological and
innovation capacity, with the purpose of supporting Mexico's economic and social development.

The World Bank's contribution to the science and technology sector has meant, beyond its financial
support, a permanent source of technical assistance through its monitoring, evaluation, and advisory
activities, both at the macro level (development/implementation of sectoral policies) and at the
micro level (the diversity of programs and activities that have been developed throughout these
years). There was always a constructive and proactive dialogue among the different actors affecting
the implementation of these projects, which has motivated a constant reflection on how the state's
intervention can be targeted to develop a national system of innovation that responds to society's
needs as a whole.

The Knowledge and Innovation Project provided important lessons, which became a valuable input
during the preparation of the Innovation for Competitiveness Program (January 2006). The main
lessons learned are described in the previous section (8. Lessons Learned). However, we consider
appropriate to mention the following:

l Flexibility in project design and implementation. Mexico's circumstances as a country in transition
    toward a more advanced development stage mean that its systems (legal and regulatory,
    budgetary and financial, public policies, technical knowledge, etc.) are evolving, a situation that
    would potentially impact the performance of current projects and those to be implemented in
    the coming years.

l Bank's recognition of Mexico's own systems. Despite being a subject of general discussion (mainly on
    fiduciary aspects) between Bank management and the Mexican government, we highlight the
    Bank's vision towards CONACYT, which acknowledged activities and/or programs
    implemented in different areas and complemented these with recommendations on best
    international practices.

l Guidelines and norms. Linked to the previous points, there is a need to use mechanisms that
    respond to the particular circumstances and needs of the project, both of CONACYT and its
    final beneficiaries. In particular, the guidelines for procurement of equipment under the Support
    for research component reflected a poor understanding of the needs of its final beneficiaries during
    both project preparation and the definition of a solution at mid-term.

l Need to move forward on financial management and audit systems. Similarly, these are subjects in which
    the dialogue between the government of Mexico and the Bank continues to advance. The
    direct participation of the implementing agencies in this process, however, is very important,
    especially in the specific design of projects and programs. Also, it is very important to establish


                                                   - 26 -

    a policy of continuous review and flexibility in order to adapt the project to changing needs.

Comments from the Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, SHCP)

The last paragraph (fifth line) in the section on Assessment of Project Objectives and Original
Components, notes that the problem (too many subcomponents) was caused because the project
did not increase the resources available for CONACYT, but on the contrary implied a reallocation
of the portfolio toward new activities. The SHCP notes that this comment is not reasonable since
the absence of additional financing should have been foreseen from the start. The government´s
policy clearly establishes that Bank loans do not represent additional resources to the executing
entities.

The section on Bank supervision does not indicate that the Bank team underwent three changes of
task manager, including one that the government knew little. This partly affected Bank supervision
since missions were not conducted as regularly as desired.

Comments from Nacional Financiera

We have reviewed the document and consider that its content accurately reflects the development
of the project. In this regard, it is important to highlight the need that projects be evaluated early on
to prevent its design from conflicting with the norms/plans to utilize external financing resources
and to ensure that institutional capacity of the executing agency does not become an obstacle to
using external resources. Moreover, the document reflects the flexibility that IBRD manifested in
due course to modify procurement procedures to accommodate the specific requirements of the
scientific projects that were supported with project financing.


(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a.

10. Additional Information

n/a.




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Table A.1 Outcome / Impact Indicators:

Indicators were sharpened during the life of the project and are more specific than those included
in Annex I of the PAD, which had not defined any specific output targets. Also, a broader set of
outcome indicators was measured during project implementation and at project completion since
the initial PAD outcome indicator was not comprehensive and could only capture accomplishments
related to some of the project objectives (mainly component 3 and partially on component 2). A
broader set of indicators, for example, was necessary to measure project outcomes related to the
project objectives of generating new knowledge for innovation (supporting excellence in S&T
research and increasing the availability of S&T human capital).



                                                                                                 Target
            Indicator/Matrix                      Baseline              Actual/Latest
                                                (12/31/1998)        Estimate (12/31/2004)      (12/31/2005)

Investment in R&D                            0.38% of GDP          0.45% of GDP               0.47% of GDP

Private R&D investment                       0.09% of GDP          0.15% of GDP               0.17 of GDP

Private R&D investment ­ percentage of
total national investment                    24%                   34%                        37%

International articles                       4,031                 5,885                      6,300

Mexico's share of scientific articles in the
world production                             0.57%                 0.76%                      0.81%

Availability of Human capital: Doctoral
graduates                                    833                   1717                       2000

Total number of researchers                  22,190                34,485                     36,700

Total number of researchers per 1000
employed                                     0.5                   0.81                       0.85

Number of researchers in the private         4,117 (17% of
sector                                       all)                  11,458 (33% of all)        12,680

                                                                   Impact analysis on
                                                                   enterprise productivity
                                                                   for TMF not conducted.

Impact on enterprise productivity of                               Such analysis will be

Technology Modernization Fund (TMF)          --                    available within the       --
                                                                   next few months for
                                                                   Sectoral Fund for
                                                                   Economic Development
                                                                   which replaced TMF.
Note: It is difficult to ascertain how much of the rise in private R&D responds to project interventions, but
the project's impact on private R&D is likely to have been modest.




                                                         - 28 -

Output Indicators


                                Indicador/Matrix                           Baseline    Latest Estimate*
                                                                         (12/31/1998)   (12/31/2004)
          Component A. Science and Technology Research

          Number of approved projects                                        604            615**

          Number of graduate degrees produced                               1,386          2,118**


          Number of post doctoral researchers involved                       23             49**


          Number of published articles in indexed publications              2,793          4,288**


          Number of patents                                                  10             25**

          Number of repatriated or retained researchers                      239            309**

          Graduate students benefited with scholarships                     9,085          16,816

          Component B. Industry-University Linkage

          Number of Joint Industry-University Projects supported by
          CONACYT                                                             0               33


          Percentage of staff from public S&T Institutes belonging to
          the National Researchers System                                    43.1            51.5


          Number of scientific articles published by staff from public
          S&T institutes                                                    1,356           1,636


          Additional number of patents filed by companies                     0               7

          Additional number of patents filed by technology transfer
          offices                                                             0               24

          Component C. Enterprise Technology Enhancement

          Number of SMEs supported by the Technology Modernization
          Program                                                             0              887

          Technological upgrading projects fully implemented by
          participating firms                                                 0              780

          Number of firms serviced by Regional/ Sector Technology
          Centers                                                             0             1,000

          Additional number of patents filed by Regional/ Sector
          Technology Centers                                                  0               5

          Number of new ventures supported by the Pilot Venture
          capital Fund                                                        0             7***

          *Actual values correspond to 2004 or latest year available.
          **Number refers to 2000. Projects approved in 2004 were 663
          ***Value refers to 2005




                                                      - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



                   Table A.2.1 Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                 Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage
                          Component                              Estimate     Estimate    of Appraisal
                                                                US$ million  US$ million  percentage
  A. Science and Technology Research                             285.00        445.88         156

   A.1-3 Support for Research Projects and Field Development     285.00        359.41         126

   A.4. Scholarships for Graduate Studies                         0.00          86.47         n.a.



  B. Industry - University Linkage                               156.44         13.89          9

   B.1. Restructuring of Public S&T Institutes                    66.00         10.11         15

   B.2. Joint Industry-Academic Projects                          71.24          2.68          4

   B.3. Technical Assistance to Universities                      19.20          1.11          6



  C. Enterprise Technology Enhancement                           191.33         58.64         31

   C.1. Technology Modernization Program                          67.49         29.67         44

   C.2. Regional/ Sectoral Technology Centers                     70.84          2.28          3

   C.3-4 Pilot Venture Capital Fund and Special Pilot Studies     53.00         26.69         50



  D. Institutional Strengthening                                  0.00           9.62         n.a.



  E. Unallocated                                                  30.00          0.00          0

                Total Project Costs                              662.77        528.02         80

  Note: n.a.: not applicable




                                                         - 30 -

                  Table A.2.2 Project Costs by Financing Source (in US$ million equivalent)

                                            Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate        % of

            Component                                                                            Appraisal

                                         Bank   Govt.      Private            Govt.    Private
                                                           Sector   Bank                Sector     Bank

A. Science and Technology                135.0   150.0               263.      182.4                  195%
   Research

B. Industry - University Linkage           62.5   48.7      45.2     11.0        2.9                   18%

C. Enterprise Technology                   72.5   10.6     108.3     17.8        6.3        34.5       25%
   Enhancement

D. Institutional Strengthening                                         7.7       1.9

E. Unallocated                             30.0                        0.0

   Totals                                300.0   209.3       153.5  300.0      193.5        34.5      100%



                       Table A.2.3 Reallocation of Loan Proceeds (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                                   Closing
                  Component                        Amendment      Amendment       Reallocation
                                                  Sep. 18, 2002   June 6, 2003    July 7, 2005   Account Dec.
                                                                                                   6, 2005

A. Science and Technology Research                       135.00        250.37           263.45         263.45

A.1-3 Support for Research Projects and Field
       Development                                       135.00        178.80           176.97         176.97

A.4. Scholarships for Graduate Studies                     0.00           71.57           86.47         86.47

B. Industry - University Linkage                          62.50           12.70           11.04         11.04

B.1. Restructuring of Public S&T Institutes               26.00            7.37            7.28          7.28

B.2. Joint Industry-Academic Projects                     31.50            3.90            2.68          2.68

B.3. Technical Assistance to Universities                  5.00            1.43            1.08          1.08

C. Enterprise Technology Enhancement                      72.50           25.30           17.80         17.80

C.1. Technology Modernization Program                     30.00           16.95           14.22         14.22

C.2. Regional/ Sectoral Technology Centers                35.00            3.31            2.28          2.28

C.3-4 Pilot Venture Capital Fund and Special
       Pilot Studies                                       7.50            5.04            1.31          1.31

D. Institutional Strengthening                            10.00           11.63            7.71          7.71

E. Unallocated                                            20.00            0.00            0.00          0.00

Totals                                                   300.00        300.00           300.00         300.00




                                                       - 31 -

               Table A.2.4 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimates                        Actual Costs
  Expenditure Category
                              ICB      NCB     Other   Totals   ICB     NCB       Other    N.B.F  Totals

Goods                          36.8      6.8       1.4   45.0     8.7      1.2       2.2      0.0   12.2

Services (Consultants,          0.0      0.0      53.2   53.2     0.0      0.0       3.6      1.6    5.2
training , promotion)

Grants and Scholarships         0.0      0.0    564.6   564.6     7.7      2.1     431.4     63.4  504.6

Project Administration                                            3.6      0.0       2.5      0.0    6.1
(Operating Costs)

Unallocated                     0.0      0.0      30.0   30.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0

Totals                         36.8      6.8    619.2   662.8    20.0      3.4     439.7     65.0  528.0




           Table A.2.5 Loan Amounts by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimates                  Actual Costs
  Expenditure Category
                              ICB      NCB     Other   Totals   ICB     NCB       Other   Totals

Goods                           2.8      3.8      1.4      8.0    7.4      1.1       1.9     10.4

Services (Consultants,
training , promotion)           0.0      0.0     35.5    35.5     0.0      0.0       3.6      3.6


Grants and Scholarships         0.0      0.0    256.5   256.5     5.8      1.6     274.0    281.3

Project Administration
(Operating Costs)                                                 2.8      0.0       1.9      4.7


Unallocated                     0.0      0.0     30.0    30.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0

Totals                          2.8      3.8    293.4   300.0    15.9      2.6     281.5    300.0




                                                      - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Estimating precise rates of return for R&D investments undertaken in the project is difficult, but
overall project results indicate that activities were cost-effective. The impact of available resources
was maximized through the implementation of increasingly efficient activities. The empirical
literature also provides evidence that R&D investments result in higher social returns than
investments in physical capital (for example, Lederman and Maloney (2003) and Griliches (1992)).

On the Science and Technology component, improved procedures supported by the project point to
substantial gains in efficiency, quality, and relevancy of research. Efficiency has been improved
through better selection of research projects by applying a more stringent and transparent peer
reviewer system. This together with an increase on the average grant amount and extension of the
implementation period has resulted in a higher concentration of resources in fewer but better
projects and has reduced the administrative cost imposed on researchers, who used to spend
substantial time applying for numerous small grants. On the Restructuring of Public S&T Centers
(Component B), their greater reliance on private financing points to the higher relevancy of their
research. Also, the production of scientific articles and number of patents resulting from research
grants as well as from the restructuring of S&T centers increased. Benefitting from the governance
reforms, the restructuring of these institutes was achieved in a more cost effective manner than
initially planned. However, it is difficult to estimate the precise value and rate of return of the above
activities due to commercialization lags and other challenges in quantifying scientific output.

The Scholarship for Graduate Studies program (Component A) was also very cost-effective, producing a
large number of graduates at the doctoral level with a very high completion rate (90 percent). And,
as supported by the economic literature, formation of advanced human capital is a key driver of
technical progress (De Ferranti et. al. 2003).

On the Technology Modernization Program (component C), ex-post investment recovery rates of
technological investments by private firms are estimated in the range of 80-100 percent and more
than 60 percent have continued to implement technological investments after the project. But, an
impact analysis on enterprise productivity was not conducted. As noted earlier, CONACYT is
working on a new impact methodology for the Sectoral Fund for Economic Development that superseded
this program. On the venture capital fund, a US$6 million public contribution has been successful
in raising an additional US$20 million in private financing; all beneficiary firms are still on-going and
their revenues are rising. A further evaluation of the rate of return will be available when firms start
to spin off.




                                                   - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/14/1997                5    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             TECHNOLOGY POLICY SPEC
                                             (1); SCIENCE POLICY SPEC
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/14/1998                7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             TECHNOLOGY POLICY
                                             SPEC (1); SCIENCE
                                             POLICY SPEC (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC (1)
                                             AND FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPEC (1)
              04/28/1998                8    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             TECHNOLOGY POLICY SPEC
                                             (1); SCIENCE POLICY SPEC
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC (1)
                                             AND FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPEC (1);
                                             COUNSEL (1)

 Supervision
              05/24/1999                7    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             TECHNOLOGY POLICY
                                             SPEC (1); SCIENCE
                                             POLICY SPECIAL (3);
                                             UJIVERSITY-INDUSTRY
                                             LI (1); MATCHING
                                             GRANT SPECIAL (1)
              11/18/1999                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              06/26/2000                3    SPECIALIST (2); ECONOMIST        S               S
                                             (1)
              06/13/2001                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              01/28/2002                4    TTL (1); TECHNOLOGY              S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
              10/25/2002                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S



                                              - 34 -

                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1)
               01/19/2003                 5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANTS (2); SECTOR
                                              LEADER (1)
               08/30/2003                 6   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S       S
                                              ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                              EDUCATION SP (1); LEAD
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (ESF) (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (OECD) (1)
               04/26/2004                 4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S       S
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1);
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
               08/04/2004                 5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S       S
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1);
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1); EDUCATION
                                              SPECIALIST (1)


               04/15/2005                 3   1 TASK TEAM LEADER; (1)            S       S
                                              FM SPECIALIST; (1)
                                              EDUCATION SPECIALIST

 ICR
               09/26/2005                5     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S       S
                                               ECONOMIST (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT SP (1);
                                               SPECIALIST IN SCIENCE
                                               AND TECHNOLOGY (1);
                                               FINANCIAL
                                               MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1)

PS: There is no more available information in Bank's systems on preparation missions.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation        N/A in SAP                            54.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    9.65                           65.7
  Supervision                             95.08                        516.36
  ICR                                      9.05                         33.88
  Total                                 113.78                         670.84




                                               - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

CONACYT. Operational Manual, Mexico: Knowledge for Innovation Project, Mexico, D.F.

CONACYT. March 31, 1999. Annual Self-evaluation Report, Mexico, D.F.

CONACYT. 2001. Challenges on scientific and technological capacity and competitiveness.
Diagnostic 2001-2006 (Retos actuales en materia de capacidad científica y tecnológica, y
competitividad. Diagnóstico 2001-2006).

CONACYT. 2004. 2001-2003 Report and Perspectives for 2004 (Informe 2001-2003 y
Perspectivas para el 2004).

CONACYT, 2004, 2005. General Report on Science and Technology (Informe General del
Estado de la Ciencia y Tecnología).

Gorraez, Irma. 2005. Evaluation of the Technology Components, Knowledge and Innovation
Project.

The World Bank. May 22, 1998. Project Appraisal Document, Mexico: Knowledge and
Innovation Project; Report Number 17896, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. July 14, 1998. Mission Note, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. December 30, 1998. Implementation Completion Report, Mexico: Science and
Technology Infrastructure Project (Loan 3475-ME); Report Number 18763, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. June 2, 1999. Mexico: Private Sector Development Strategy and Operations,
Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. June 26 - 30, 2000. Project Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, Washington,
D.C.

The World Bank. June 13 - 21, 2001. Project Supervision Mission Report and Aide-Memoire,
Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. January 28 ­ February 1, 2002. Project Supervision Mission Report and
Aide-Memoire, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. October 16 - 24, 2002. Project Supervision Mission Report and
Aide-Memoire, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. January 19-21, 2003. Project Mission Report, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. August 25 - 29, 2003. Project Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire,



                                            - 38 -

Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. October 30 - 31, 2003. Project Supervision Mission Report, Washington,
D.C.

The World Bank. April 26 ­ 29, 2004. Project Supervision Mission Report and Aide-Memoire,
Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. August 24 ­ 31, 2004. Project Supervision Mission Report and
Aide-Memoire, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. August 26 ­ September 2, 2004. Project Identification Mission Report and
Aide-Memoire, Washington, D.C.

The World Bank. September 26 ­ 30, 2005. Project Mission Aide-Memoire, Washington, D.C.




                                          - 39 -

- 40 -

