Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
June 6, 2003 
Mario Laborín Gómez 
Director General 
Dirección Internacional 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971, Torre IV, piso 8 
01020 México, D.F. 
México  
 
Alonso Pascual García Tames
 
Claudia María Bazúa Witte 
Director General de Crédito Público
 
Tesorera de la Fede
ración 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Palacio Nacional, Patio Central, p. 3 of.3010 
Av. Constituyentes 1001, Edif. “A”piso 4 
Col. Centro, Deleg. Cuauhtémoc,   
 
 
 
Col. Belén de las Flores, Deleg. Álvaro Obregón, 
06066  México, D.F.  
 
 
 
 
01110, México, D.F. 
México México 
 
Jaime Parada 
Director General 
Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología 
Av. Constituyentes No. 1046, piso 3 
Colonia Lomas Altas 
11950, México, D.F. 
México 
 
Re:     Loan 4349-ME (Knowledge and Innovation Project) Second 
Amendment to the Loan and Project Agreements 
 
Dear Sirs:  
 
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), to the Guarantee 
Agreement between United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank, and to the Project 
Agreement between Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología (CONACYT) and the Bank, all 
dated October 4, 1998 and amended on September 18, 2002 (the Loan Agreement, Guarantee 
Agreement and Project Agreement, respectively), with respect to the above-captioned Project.  
Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Loan 
Agreement. 
 
The Bank is pleased to inform you that the Bank has established December 31, 2005 as 
the later date for purposes of Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement. 
 
In addition, the Bank hereby informs you of its agreement to amend the following 
sections of the Loan Agreement: 
 
Section 1.02(h) and (k),  
the table under paragraph 1 of Schedule 1,  
Page  2
paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1,  
Part A.4 of Schedule 2, and 
the expected Project completion date under the last paragraph of Schedule 2.  
 
Finally, the Bank informs you of its agreement to amend the following sections of the 
Project Agreement:  
 
Sections I.1, Section I.5 and Section I.6 of Schedule 2.  
 
As a result of this amendment and the amendment dated September 18, 2002, the Loan 
and Project Agreement shall read as per attachments A and B to this Amendment Letter (text 
added in this amendment appears double underlined and text deleted in this amendment appears 
stricken  through).  
 
Please confirm your agreement to this amendment by signing and dating the four 
originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  This amendment 
shall enter into effect as of its date first above written, upon receipt by the Bank of one original of 
this letter signed by you.
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Miguel Lopez-Bakovic 
Acting Country Director 
Country Management Unit 
Colombia and Mexico  
AGREED:  
 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
AS GUARANTOR 
 
By:  /s/ Mario Laborín Gomez 
 
 
By:  /s/ Alonso García Tamés 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Date: 
June 6, 2003 
 
 
 
Date:  
June 6, 2003 
 
By:  
/s/Claudia María Bazúa Witte 
Date: _
September 22, 2003
_______ 
Signed by Tesorería de la Federación for the only 
purposes of Article 54 of the Ley del Servicio de 
Tesorería de la Federación
,
regarding the Guarantor’s 
obligations set forth in Article II, Section 2.01 of the 
Guarantee Agreement.
 
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE CIENCIA Y TECNOLOGIA 
 
By: /s/ Jaime Parada 
 Authorized Representative 
Page  3
Date: June 6. 2003
Page  4
Attachment A 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4349-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Knowledge and Innovation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. 
 
Dated October 4, 1998 
(as amended through 
June 6, 2003
)
Page  5
LOAN NUMBER 4349-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1998, as amended through June 6, 2003
between the 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower). 
 
WHEREAS (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
WHEREAS  (B) by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the 
Guarantee Agreement; 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Project will be carried out by Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y 
Tecnología (CONACYT) with the Borrower's and the Guarantor's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CONACYT the proceeds of the Loan as 
hereinafter provided; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project 
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CONACYT; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for 
Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended through December 2, 1997 
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a)  
“CONACYT” 
means 
Consejo Nacional de Ciencia  y Tecnología
,
the Guarantor's 
National Council of Science and Technology; 
 
(b)  
“CONACYT Law” means the Guarantor’s 
Ley Orgánica del Consejo Nacional de 
Ciencia y Tecnología, 
published in the Guarantor’s 
Diario Oficial de la Federación
 on June 5, 
2002; 
Page  6
(c) 
 “DAAF” means  
Dirección Adjunta de Administración y  Finanzas
,
CONACYT’s 
Adjunct Directorate for Administration and Finance; 
 
(d)  
“DAIC” 
means 
Dirección Adjunta de Investigación Científica
,
CONACYT’s 
Adjunct Directorate for Scientific Research; 
 
(e)  
“FORCCYTEC”  means 
Fondo para el Fortalecimiento de las Capacidades 
Científicas y Tecnológicas
,
CONACYT’s Fund for Strengthening Scientific and Technological 
Capability;  
 
(f) 
“Millennium Science Initiative” means the Bank’s initiative and included in 
CONACYT’s plan of action and guidelines detailed in its 
Convocatoria 2000 Para Grupos de 
Inve
stigación de la Iniciativa Científica del Milenio (ICM)
,
dated August 24, 2000; 
 
(g) 
 “Monitoring Indicators” means the monitoring indicators set forth in Annex A to 
the letter of even date herewith from CONACYT to the Bank; 
 
(h) 
 “Operating Rules” means CONACYT’s operating rules for Parts A.1 and A.4 of 
the Project provided to the Bank under cover of CONACYT’s letter dated May 20, 1998 and 
accepted by the Bank pursuant to its letter dated May 22, 1998, as such operating rules may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank (including, without limitation, the 
amendment related to Part A.4 of the Project sent by the Borrower to the Bank on May 9, 2003); 
 
(i)  
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and CONACYT of 
even date herewith, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all agreements supplemental to such agreement; 
 
(j)  
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means 
Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto
,
the unit established and operating within CONACYT as set forth in Section 2.10 of the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(k)  
“Project Implementation Plan” means the detailed plan for the implementation of 
the Project provided to the Bank by CONACYT under cover of its letter dated May 20, 1998, and 
accepted by the Bank pursuant to its letter dated May 22, 1998,  as such plan may be amended from 
time to time with the agreement of the Bank (including, without limitation, the amendment related 
to Part A.4 of the Project sent by the Borrower to the Bank on May 9, 2003); 
 
(l)  
“SEP-CONACYT Research Centers” means the system of 27 public research 
centers coordinated by CONACYT; 
 
(m)  
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(n)      “Young Researchers Program” means the program described in the Project 
Implementation Plan under the heading “
Apoyo para jóvenes investigadores.
”
Page  7
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three hundred million Dollars 
($300,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services and the 
Equity Contribution (as defined in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in Banco de México on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower, CONACYT and the 
Guarantor of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on March 15 and 
September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Execution of 
the Project; Other Covenants 
 
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements with the 
Guarantor and CONACYT satisfactory to the Bank providing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to 
CONACYT of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of 
such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest, 
and other charges on the Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
change or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements. 
Page  8
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out, by CONACYT pursuant to Section 2.09 of the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the review referred to in Section 2.07 (d) 
of the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and 
procedures consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special 
Account; and 
 
(iv) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
Page  9
(ii) 
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of 
such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a)   
CONACYT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(b)  
 as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that CONACYT will 
be able to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; 
 
(c)   
the CONACYT Law or the Operating Rules shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially 
and adversely the ability of CONACYT to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and 
 
(d)   
the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment or for the suspension of the operations of 
CONACYT. 
 
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a)  
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur 
and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank 
to the Borrower; and 
 
(b)  
the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
 
Page  10
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement have been executed. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a)   
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement 
have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, the Guarantor and CONACYT, have been 
duly executed, and are legally binding upon the Borrower, the Guarantor and CONACYT in 
accordance with their terms; and 
 
(b)   
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CONACYT, has 
been duly executed, and is legally binding upon CONACYT in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date of January 4, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The 
Director Internacional
 of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 (MCI) 
 
Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCI) or 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Dirección Internacional 
 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
 
Torre IV, piso 8 
Page  11
01020 México, D.F. 
 
México 
 
Cable address: Telex: 
 
NAFIN NAFIME 383-1775765  
 
Mexico City Mexico City 
 
Page  12
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
 
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
 
%
of 
 
Loan Allocated
 
Expenditures 
 
(Expressed in 
 
to be 
 
Category
Dollars)
Financed
(1) 
Part A of the Project 
 
(a)  Grants under Part A.1 
 171,000,000 
75% of grant  
 
amounts disbursed 
 
(b)  Grants under Part A.2 
 4,800,000 
75% of grant  
 
amounts disbursed 
 
(c) 
Consultants’ Services 
 3,000,000 
 
and Training 
 
100% 
 
(d)  Goods 
 0 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 85% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(e) Scholarships under Part A.4 
71,600,000    
100% of scholarship  
 
amounts disbursed 
 
(2) 
Part B of the Project 
 
(a) Part 
B.1: 
 
(i) Goods 
 
7,270,000 
100% 
of 
foreign 
 
expenditures and 85% 
 
of  local expenditures  
 
(ii) Consultants’ 
 
 
100,000 
100% 
 
Services and 
 
Training for 
 
Part B.1 
 
(b) 
Matching grants for 
 3,900,000 
100% of amounts 
 
Part B.2 
 
disbursed by CONACYT 
 
Page  13
Amount of the  
 
%
of 
 
Loan Allocated
 
Expenditures 
 
(Expressed in 
 
to be 
 
Category
Dollars)
Financed
(c) 
Consultants’   
1,300,000 
100% 
 
Services, Training 
 
and Promotion 
 
Services under 
 
Parts B.2 and B.3 
 
(d)  Goods 
 
 130,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 85% 
 
of local expenditures 
(3)  
Part C of the Project 
 
(a) Matching grants under 
 
Part C.1: 
 
(i)  pilot phase  
 
 2,350,000 
100% of amounts  
disbursed by CONACYT 
 
(ii) implementation 
 
 14,600,000 
100% of amounts  
 
phase  
 disbursed 
by 
 
CONACYT 
 
(b)  Matching loans under  
 3,310,000 
100% of amounts 
 
Part C.2 
 
 
disbursed by 
 
CONACYT 
 
(c)  Equity Contribution 
 
5,000,000 
up to 20% of 
 
under Part C.3 
 
 
Approved Initial 
 
Capitalization 
 
(d)  Consultants’ Services  
 40,000 
 
100% 
 
under Part C.4  
 
 
(4) Unallocated 
  
 
0 
 
 
(5) 
Goods   
 
 3,500,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 85% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(6) 
Project Administration 
 
 
 8,100,000 
100% of expenditures  
 
through December 31, 2002; 
 
75% of expenditures thereafter  
 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL
 
300,000,000
2.  
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
Page  14
(a) 
 the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor; 
 
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; 
 
(c) 
 the term "Promotion Services" means production and dissemination of booklets, 
brochures, promotional videos and other promotional documentation; organization of seminars, 
workshops, and specialized encounters and meetings; Internet page preparation; and travel 
expenses (including per diem or subsistence expenses) for the foregoing, for visits to universities 
and research centers by CONACYT staff, and for staff or members of Project coordinating units 
and the private sector advisory council of the Director General of CONACYT; 
 
(d) 
the term "Training" means travel expenses (including per diem or subsistence 
expenses) for organization of or attendance at workshops, seminars, courses and study tours; 
acquisition and production of training materials; rental of facilities; fees for trainers; and 
fellowships; 
 
(e)  
 the term "Equity Contribution" means the equity contribution made or to be 
made by CONACYT in accordance with a detailed proposal to be made by CONACYT to the 
Bank for the establishment and operation of a pilot capital venture fund under Part C.3 of the 
Project, as approved by the Bank;  
 
(f)  
the term "Approved Initial Capitalization" means the amount of the initial 
capitalization of the pilot venture capital fund to be established under Part C.3 of the Project as 
approved by the Bank pursuant to the proposal referred to in subparagraph (e) above; and 
 
(g) 
the term “Project Administration” means reasonable recurrent expenditures 
incurred by CONACYT, through the PCU in the daily implementation, management, 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, such as the costs of consumable supplies, 
maintenance of facilities and equipment and transportation and per diem for the PCU staff, all  of 
which would not have been incurred absent the Project 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of 
 
(a)   
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 14, 1998; 
 
(b)   
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) of the table in paragraph 
1
of
this Schedule unless the technical committee referred to in Chapter 2, paragraph 21 of the 
Project Implementation Plan has been established; 
 
(c)   
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (c) of the table in paragraph 
1
of
this Schedule unless the Bank has approved CONACYT's detailed proposal for the 
establishment and operation of a pilot capital venture fund under Part C.3 of the Project referred 
to in paragraph 2 (e) of this Schedule; and 
 
Page  15
(d)   
payments made for expenditures under Category 3 (a) (ii) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Bank has approved the operational manual referred to in 
Schedule 2, Section III, paragraph 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 
4.   
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower, for expenditures for: 
 
(a)   
goods under contracts costing less than $350,000 equivalent; 
 
(b)   
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent and services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and 
 
(c)   
grants, scholarships and loans under Parts A.1, A.2, A.4, B.2, C.1 and C.2 of the 
Project. 
 
(d) 
project administration expenditures as referred to in paragraph 2 (g) of this 
Schedule.  
Page  16
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to promote the generation, diffusion and application of 
knowledge for strengthening scientific development and for the promotion of innovation in 
support of economic development in the territory of the Guarantor. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Science and Technology Research
Improvement of the quality, quantity and relevance of science and technology research 
through: 
 
1.  
The provision of grants for competitive, peer-evaluated science and technology projects 
to consolidate advances in existing disciplines and for the Young Researchers Program. 
 
2.  
Provision of support for fundamental and applied science and technology research to 
accelerate the development of lagging or emerging disciplines of scientific relevance and of 
economic or social importance: 
 
(a) 
 the development of new networks and new academic programs; and 
 
(b)   
direct support through grants for specific research projects, including, inter alia, 
biotechnology research projects and the research projects selected, under a competitive process, 
under the Millennium Science Initiative. 
 
3. 
 
Carrying out of in-depth evaluations of the different disciplines supported by 
CONACYT, execution of special studies designed to contribute to the quality of CONACYT's 
policy-making and funding decisions, and execution of other studies related to scientific 
development in the territory of the Guarantor. 
 
4.  
The provision of scholarships for graduate studies in science and technology. 
 
Part B
:
Academia-Private Sector Linkages
Creation and strengthening of mechanisms and institutions that facilitate the interaction of the 
academic and private sectors through: 
 
1.  
Restructuring of most SEP-CONACYT Research Centers to increase their capacity for 
self-financing and to increase their service to industry. 
 
2.  
Establishment, promotion and execution of a matching grant scheme to support joint 
projects between industry and academia in the following areas: applied research; product and 
process design, development and improvement; and technology adaptation and diffusion. 
 
Page  17
3.  
Provision of technical assistance to universities and other institutions of higher learning 
to develop or strengthen a variety of outreach activities to the private sector, including: the 
creation or strengthening of outreach units; creation of joint advisory councils; and the carrying 
out of workshops, led by the private sector, in which academic researchers can learn about 
industrial problems. 
 
Part C
:
Enterprise Technology Development
1.  
Establishment and execution of a technology modernization program primarily for small 
and medium scale enterprises based on a decentralized network of local agents supported by 
CONACYT through a matching grant program. 
 
2.  
Establishment or expansion of regional or sector-based technology centers offering 
services primarily to small and medium scale enterprises and supported by CONACYT through a 
matching loan program. 
 
3.  
Establishment and operation of a pilot venture capital fund majority-owned and operated 
by the private sector to provide equity investments in start-up, technology-based enterprises. 
 
4.  
(a) 
Carrying out of a foresight-for-innovation process in selected sectors of the 
economy through: 
 
(i) 
the formation of a private-public sector committee to raise awareness of 
the benefits of technology foresight and to select pilot activities; 
 
(ii)  
execution of selected pilot activities; and 
 
(iii) 
diffusion of the lessons of the pilot activities. 
 
(b) 
Design and implementation on a pilot basis of a technological and commercial 
information system. 
 
(c) 
Design and implementation of pilot activities to test emerging policy priorities of 
CONACYT. 
 
Part. D:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Establishment and operation of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). 
 
2. 
Strengthening of PCU’s and CONACYT’s capabilities for the monitoring and evaluation of 
research projects financed under the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005. 
Page  18
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
 
A. 
 General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a)   
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the aggregate 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such Interest Period. 
 
(b)   
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the 
initial period, each period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding, the next 
following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(c)   
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(d)   
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn. 
 
B.  
Interest
1.   
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. Interest shall 
accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a floating rate 
index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in 
paragraph 2 of this Part B. 
 
2.   
(a) 
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed 
Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable: 
 
(i) LIBOR Base Rate; plus 
 
(ii) LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable: 
 
(i) Fixed Base Rate; plus 
 
(ii) Fixed Total Spread. 
 
3.   
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a)   
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed Amount 
Page  19
is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the day 
occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(b)  
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn: 
 
(i) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
 
(ii) 
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed 
Amount for such Interest Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c)   
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date 
for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest 
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(d)  
 "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
 
(i) 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
 
(ii) 
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for 
such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London interbank offered 
rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include such 
Disbursed Amount; plus; and 
 
(iii) 
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per annum. 
 
4.  
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR 
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, 
promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
5.  
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of the 
interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its 
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable 
to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less 
than six (6) months' notice to the Guarantor and the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis 
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower 
Page  20
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall 
not apply to the Loan. 
 
C. Repayment
1.   
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall repay each 
Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be 
payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
 
2.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment of 
principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be 
payable after March 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of 
all such installments. 
 
3.  
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount. 
 
Page  21
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1.   
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)   
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b)  
 the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c)  
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $20,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the amount of $40,000,000. 
 
2.  
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3.  
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a)  
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b)   
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
Page  22
4.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a)   
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or 
 
(b)  
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
 if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d)  
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
 
6.   
(a)   
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
 If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount. 
 
(c)   
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
Page  23
(d)  
 Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
Page  24
Attachment B 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4349-ME 
 
Project Agreement
 
(Knowledge and Innovation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE CIENCIA Y TECNOLOGIA 
 
Dated October 4, 1998 
(as amended through June 6, 2003
)
Page  25
LOAN NUMBER 4349-ME 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1998, (as amended through June 6, 2003
)
between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE CIENCIA Y TECNOLOGIA (CONACYT). 
 
WHEREAS  
 (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Nacional 
Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that CONACYT 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) by contractual arrangements to be entered into between the Borrower, United 
Mexican States, and CONACYT, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to CONACYT on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
contractual arrangements; and 
 
WHEREAS CONACYT, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Loan 
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. CONACYT declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, scientific, financial, 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. CONACYT shall duly perform all its obligations under the contractual 
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall 
Page  26
otherwise agree, CONACYT shall not change or fail to enforce any provisions of said contractual 
arrangements. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) CONACYT shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the contractual arrangements, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Loan. 
 
(b)   
CONACYT shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan, or the performance by CONACYT of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.05. CONACYT shall strengthen, on the basis of terms of reference agreed with 
the Bank, its DAAF for the purpose of coordinating all financial reporting requirements under the 
Project. 
 
Section 2.06. CONACYT shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and the supplemental implementation arrangements set forth or referred to 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.07. CONACYT shall: 
 
(a)   
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b)   
no later than March 31 in each year of Project execution furnish to the Bank: (i) a 
progress report on the execution of the Project during the previous calendar year, said reports to 
be of such scope an detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested and including the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section; 
(ii) the actual budget allocation for the Project during the previous calendar year and the approved 
budget allocation for the current calendar year; and (iii) sectoral evaluations of the Project's 
effectiveness, including the results of any special studies commissioned for the purpose; 
 
(c)   
not later than April 15, 2000 cause an independent agency or specialized firm, 
with qualifications and experience and under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, to prepare 
a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed to paragraph 
(a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(d)   
review with the Bank by October 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank may 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of its objectives 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the 
matter. 
 
Section 2.08. CONACYT shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
Page  27
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project. 
 
Section 2.09. For the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, CONACYT shall: 
 
(a)   
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between CONACYT and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement 
of the Project's objectives; and 
 
(b)   
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with CONACYT on 
said plan. 
 
Section 2.10.  (a)  CONACYT shall establish, and thereafter maintain, at all times, until 
the completion of the Project, a Project coordination unit with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the following functions and responsibilities: (i) 
monitoring the implementation of the Project and ensuring effective coordination among the staff 
and institutions responsible for the implementation of the Project, pursuant to the provisions of 
the Operating Rules and the Project Implementation Plan; (ii) preparing and submitting to the 
Bank the reports referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement; (iii) carrying out of the 
procurement of goods and consultants’ services required for the Project pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (iv) overseeing the general administration of the Project, with 
respect to Loan proceeds withdrawal, financial management, accounting and auditing; (v) 
reviewing, jointly with the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank, the progress achieved by 
CONACYT in the implementation of the Project on the basis of the Monitoring Indicators, and 
carrying out the actions required for the subsequent implementation of the Project; (vi) 
monitoring progress achieved by the SEP-CONACYT Research Centers in the implementation of 
their respective activities under the Project; and (vii) identifying any possible obstacle or 
difficulty affecting or threatening to affect such implementation. 
 
(b) 
CONACYT shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times, during the execution of the 
Project, headed by a Project coordinator (the Project Coordinator), with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Project Coordinator shall be assisted by technical and administrative staff in 
adequate numbers and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) one accountant with technical expertise in financial management matters (the 
Project Accountant); (ii) a specialist in procurement procedures, guidelines and contracts (the 
Procurement Specialist); and (iii) an officer responsible for administrative and operational matters 
(the Administrative Manager). 
 
(d) 
Without limitation or restriction upon other provisions of this Agreement, 
CONACYT shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, staff and other 
resources required for the discharge of the functions of the PCU.
 
Page  28
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of CONACYT 
 
Section 3.01. CONACYT shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, scientific and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. CONACYT shall at all times operate and maintain its premises, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative practices. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01.   
(a) CONACYT shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) CONACYT 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards 
and procedures, by independent and qualified auditors; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) a certified copy of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, or for all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made from the Special Account, CONACYT shall provide to the Borrower all 
records and accounts necessary to allow the Borrower to perform its obligations punctually under 
Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which the 
Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  29
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CONACYT 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance 
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CONACYT thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 (MCI); or 
 
Washington, D.C. 64145 (MCI)  
 
For CONACYT: 
 
Consejo Nacional de Ci
encia y Tecnología 
 
Av. Constituyentes No. 1046, piso 3 
 
Colonia Lomas Altas 
 
México, D.F. 11950 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CONACYT may be taken or 
executed by the Director General of CONACYT or such other person or persons as said Director 
General shall designate in writing, and CONACYT shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Page  30
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
 
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.  
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 
5
of
Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2.  
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a)  
Grouping of Contracts 
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
$350,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b)  
Notification and Advertising 
 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be 
advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract but more that 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,700,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  31
(b) 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) 
above, standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank shall be used. 
 
2.   
Shopping
(a)  Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $27,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b)  Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $27,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
 
3.  
Direct Contracting
The following goods may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines: 
 
(a) 
goods to be procured as an extension of an existing contract or which must be 
purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment;  
 
(b) 
goods which are of a proprietary nature; 
 
(c) 
goods which must be procured from a particular supplier as a condition of a 
performance guarantee; and 
 
(d) 
goods which are licensed intellectual property. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
 
2.    
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part B of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
3.   
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  32
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.   
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
2.   
The following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of 
consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.   
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services of a straightforward nature under Part B of the Project that can be precisely 
defined and that are estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2.   
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.  
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1. 
 
Page  33
2.   
Prior Review
(a)  
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part B and Part C.1 of this Section II, and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b)  
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part B and Part C.1 of this Section II, and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c)   
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
3.  
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Supplemental Implementation Arrangements 
 
Section I:
Part A.1 and A.4 of the Project
1.   
CONACYT shall carry out Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project on the basis of the Operating 
Rules. 
 
2.   
For the purpose of administering the grants awarded under Part A.1 of the Project, 
CONACYT shall, no later than July 1, 1999 , restructure DAIC along lines of academic 
disciplines in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan and cause it to 
be staffed with specialized personnel from said disciplines. 
 
3.   
CONACYT shall ensure that all questions of an ethical nature relating to the application 
process, approval and execution of research grants shall be investigated and resolved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan. 
 
4.   
CONACYT shall enter into grant agreements with recipients of grants under Part A.1 of 
the Project on the basis of a model form agreement satisfactory to the Bank including, in 
particular, the requirement that the procurement of goods and services under the grants by the 
recipients shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
5.   
CONACYT shall ensure that the application process, approval and administration of the 
scholarships granted under Part A.4 of the Project follow the provisions set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan. 
Page  34
6.   
CONACYT shall enter into scholarship agreements with recipients of scholarships under 
Part A.4 of the Project on the basis of a model form agreement satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section II:
Part B of the Project
CONACYT shall establish, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the Project, a 
change management unit to support and administer the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project 
by the SEP-CONACYT Research Centers. 
 
Section III:
Part C of the Project
1.  
 CONACYT shall first carry out Part C.1 of the Project on a pilot basis. Towards the end 
of the pilot phase, CONACYT shall forward to the Bank for its approval an operational manual 
for the further execution of Part C.1 of the Project and shall, thereafter, carry out said Part of the 
Project in accordance with the operational manual as approved by the Bank. 
 
2.   
Part C.2 of the Project shall be carried out on the basis of a revision of the operating rules 
of FORCCYTEC as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan. 
 
3.   
The pilot venture capital fund referred to in Part C.3 of the Project shall be established 
and operated in accordance with the provisions of the detailed proposal referred to in paragraph 2 
(e) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement as accepted by the Bank. 
 
