Page  1
July 23, 1997
Dr. Martin Werner
Subsecretario de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
Re:  Japanese Grant for  Second Science and
  Technology Infrastructure Project 
PHRD Grant  No. TF027082
Dear Dr. Werner
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by 
Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding seven hundred thirty-five thousand US 
Dollars (US$735,000) (the Grant) to the United Mexican States (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and 
for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities 
described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that they are 
authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt 
by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the last date of  countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  2
By /s/ Carmen Hammann
Carmen Hamann
Acting Director
Mexico Department
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By:
/s/ Martin Werner
Dr. Martin Werner
Subsecretario de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Date: July 30, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1. The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Recipient’s Second 
Science and Technology Infrastructure Project.  The technical assistance activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
execution of a program of studies to identify and assess the key institutions 
engaged in the creation, transmission, and application of science and 
technology, including publication of papers and carrying out of dissemination 
workshops and study tours;
(b)
carrying out of an enterprise innovation seminar or workshop to bring 
together managers and owners of private firms with representatives of 
research institutions and the Government to discuss the findings of a study of 
the Mexican Innovation System;
(c)
identification of the barriers to the effective flow of science and technology 
between research institutions and private industry in a number of selected 
industries, including publication of papers and carrying out of dissemination 
Page  3
workshops and study tours;
(d)
assessment of the current use of information technology and identification of 
the barriers to increased application of information technology, including 
publication of papers and carrying out of dissemination workshops; and
(e)
assessment of the performance of the CONACYT technology programs and 
of CONACYT’s Program for Support of Science in Mexico (
Programa de 
Apoyo a la Ciencia en México --PACIME
), and evaluation of the potential for 
extending the PACIME review process to Government-sponsored research 
institutions currently financed through non-competitive review processes, 
including publication of papers and carrying out of dissemination workshops 
and study tours.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services (including workshops, 
seminars and study tours) required for the Activities.
3. The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities 
promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall 
indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims 
against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4. It is expected that the Activities will be completed by April 30, 1998.  After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5. The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in 
the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be 
done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6. The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of, Mexico on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than 
nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
Page  4
7. The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. 
Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, 
after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant 
funds for the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the 
Recipient has failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the 
right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the 
guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank 
shall have been suspended.
8. The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant 
that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
