Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4349-ME
Project Agreement
(Knowledge and Innovation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CONSEJO NACIONAL DE CIENCIA Y TECNOLOGIA
Dated October 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4349-ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CONSEJO NACIONAL DE CIENCIA 
Y TECNOLOGIA (CONACYT).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to three hundred 
million Dollars ($300,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that CONACYT agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B) 
by contractual arrangements to be entered into between the 
Borrower, United Mexican States, and CONACYT, the proceeds of the loan 
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to CONACYT 
on the terms and conditions set forth in said contractual arrangements; 
and
WHEREAS CONACYT, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CONACYT declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, scientific, financial, 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.03. CONACYT shall duly perform all its obligations under 
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CONACYT shall not 
change or fail to enforce any provisions of said contractual 
arrangements.
Section 2.04. (a) CONACYT shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of  the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
contractual arrangements, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Loan.
(b)
CONACYT shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the 
performance by CONACYT of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. CONACYT shall strengthen, on the basis of terms of 
reference agreed with the Bank, its DAAF for the purpose of coordinating 
all financial reporting requirements under the Project.
Section 2.06. CONACYT shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Project Implementation Plan and the supplemental implementation 
arrangements set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.07. CONACYT shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
no later than March 31 in each year of Project execution 
furnish to the Bank: (i) a progress report on the execution of the 
Project during the previous calendar year, said reports to be of such 
scope an detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested and including 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section; (ii) the actual budget 
allocation for the Project during the previous calendar year and the 
approved budget allocation for the current calendar year; and (iii) 
sectoral evaluations of the Project’s effectiveness, including the 
Page  3
results of any special studies commissioned for the purpose; 
(c)
not later than April 15, 2000 cause an independent agency or 
specialized firm, with qualifications and experience and under terms of 
reference agreed with the Bank, to prepare a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed to 
paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives during the 
period following such date; and 
(d)
review with the Bank by October 31, 2000, or such later date 
as the Bank may request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
Section and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of  the Project and the achievement of its 
objectives based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.08. CONACYT shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of  the Project.
Section 2.09. For the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, CONACYT shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between CONACYT and 
the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the 
Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with CONACYT on said plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CONACYT
Section 3.01. CONACYT shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, scientific and financial 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CONACYT shall at all times operate and maintain its 
premises, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly 
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative 
practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CONACYT shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices its operations and financial condition, and to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project.
(b)
CONACYT shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in 
Page  4
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and 
procedures, by independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year: (A) a certified copy of the financial 
statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope 
and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records, accounts 
and financial statements as well 
as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, or 
for all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, CONACYT shall provide to the Borrower all records and 
accounts necessary to allow the Borrower to perform its obligations 
punctually under Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of 
CONACYT thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank 
shall promptly notify CONACYT thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  5
For CONACYT:
Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología
Av. Constituyentes No. 1046, piso 3
Colonia Lomas Altas
México, D.F. 11950
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of CONACYT may be taken or executed by the Director General of 
CONACYT or such other person or persons as said Director General shall 
designate in writing, and CONACYT shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONSEJO NACIONAL 
  DE CIENCIA Y TECNOLOGÍA
By /s/ José Angel Gurría Treviño
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
 General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 and in September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  6
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per 
contract but more that $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,700,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph (a) above, standard bidding documents 
satisfactory to the Bank shall be used.
3.
Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 1,000,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
The following goods may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines:
(a)
goods to be procured as an extension of an existing contract 
or which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible 
with existing equipment; 
(b)
goods which are of a proprietary nature;
(c)
goods which must be procured from a particular supplier as a 
condition of a performance guarantee; and
(d)
goods which are licensed intellectual property.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
Page  7
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants, estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services of a straightforward nature under Part B of the Project 
that can be precisely defined and that are estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  8
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms to be procured in accordance with the provisions of Part 
B and Part C.1 of this Section II, and estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms for to be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Part B and Part C.1 of this Section II, and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Supplemental Implementation Arrangements
Section I:
Part A.1 of the Project
1.
CONACYT shall carry out Part A.1 of the Project on the basis of the 
Operating Rules.
2.
For the purpose of administering the grants awarded under Part A.1 
of the Project, CONACYT shall, no later than July 1, 1999 , restructure 
DAIC along lines of academic disciplines in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Plan and cause it to be staffed 
with specialized personnel from said disciplines.
3.
CONACYT shall ensure that all questions of an ethical nature 
relating to the application process, approval and execution of research 
grants shall be investigated and resolved in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Plan.
4.
CONACYT shall enter into grant agreements with recipients of grants 
under Part A.1 of the Project on the basis of a model form agreement 
satisfactory to the Bank including, in particular, the requirement that 
the procurement of goods and services under the grants by the recipients 
shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section II: 
Part B of the Project
Page  9
CONACYT shall establish, and thereafter maintain during the 
execution of the Project, a change management unit to support and 
administer the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project by the 
SEP-CONACYT Research Centers.
Section III:
Part C of the Project
1.
CONACYT shall first carry out Part C.1 of the Project on a pilot 
basis.  Towards the end of the pilot phase, CONACYT shall forward to the 
Bank for its approval an operational manual for the further execution of 
Part C.1 of the Project and shall, thereafter, carry out said Part of the 
Project in accordance with the operational manual as approved by the 
Bank.
2.
Part C.2 of the Project shall be carried out on the basis of a 
revision of the operating rules of FORCCYTEC as set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan.
3.
The pilot venture capital fund referred to in Part C.3 of the 
Project shall be established and operated in accordance with the 
provisions of the detailed proposal referred to in paragraph 2 (e) of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement as accepted by the Bank.
