Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4349-ME
Loan Agreement
(Knowledge and Innovation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated October 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4349-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1998, between the NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. 
(the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to 
undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Consejo Nacional de 
Ciencia y Tecnología (CONACYT) with the Borrower's and the Guarantor's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to CONACYT the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; 
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Bank and CONACYT;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, as amended through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CONACYT” means Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología, 
the Guarantor's National Council of Science and Technology;
(b)
“CONACYT Law” means the Guarantor’s Ley que Crea el Consejo 
Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología, published in the Guarantor’s Diario 
Oficial de la Federación on December 29, 1970, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement;
(c)
“DAAF” means  Dirección Adjunta de Administración y  
Finanzas, CONACYT’s Adjunct Directorate for Administration and Finance;
(d)
“DAIC” means Dirección Adjunta de Investigación Científica, 
CONACYT’s Adjunct Directorate for Scientific Research;
(e)
“FORCCYTEC” means Fondo para el Fortalecimiento de las 
Capacidades Científicas y Tecnológicas, CONACYT’s Fund for Strengthening 
Scientific and Technological Capability; 
(f)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the monitoring indicators set 
forth in Annex A to the letter of even date herewith from CONACYT to the 
Bank;
(g)
“Operating Rules” means CONACYT’s operating rules for Part 
A.1 of the Project provided to the Bank under cover of CONACYT’s letter 
dated May 20, 1998 and accepted by the Bank pursuant to its letter dated 
May 22, 1998, as such operating rules may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank;
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
CONACYT of even date herewith, as such agreement may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all agreements supplemental to such 
agreement;
(i)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the detailed plan for 
the implementation of the Project provided to the Bank by CONACYT under 
cover of its letter dated May 20, 1998, and accepted by the Bank pursuant 
to its letter dated May 22, 1998,  as such plan may be amended from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank;
(j)
“SEP-CONACYT Research Centers” means the system of 27 public 
research centers coordinated jointly by the Guarantor’s Secretariat of 
Public Education and CONACYT;
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(l)
“Young Researchers Program” means the program described in 
the Project Implementation Plan under the heading “Apoyo para jóvenes 
Page  3
investigadores”.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services and the Equity 
Contribution (as defined in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) 
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de México on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower, CONACYT and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Execution of
the Project; Other Covenants
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual 
arrangements with the Guarantor and CONACYT satisfactory to the Bank 
providing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to CONACYT of the proceeds 
of the Loan; and (ii) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of 
such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on 
account of principal, interest, and other charges on the Loan.  Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to 
enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual 
arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out, by CONACYT pursuant to 
Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the review referred 
to in Section 2.07 (d) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in 
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and 
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and the records 
and accounts for the Special 
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures 
consistently applied, by independent and qualified 
auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements 
of the Special Account; 
and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one 
year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and separate accounts are 
included in the annual 
audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal 
Page  5
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
CONACYT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that CONACYT will be able to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
the CONACYT Law or the Operating Rules shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of CONACYT to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d)
the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment or 
for the suspension of the operations of CONACYT.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that the 
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement have been executed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) 
of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, 
the Guarantor and CONACYT, have been duly executed, and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower, the Guarantor and CONACYT in accordance with 
their terms; and
(b)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by CONACYT, has been duly executed, and is legally binding upon CONACYT 
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of January 4, 1999 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) or
For the Borrower:
Dirección Internacional
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
Torre IV, piso 8
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
NAFIN NAFIME 
383-1775765 
Mexico City 
Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Carlos Sales Gutierrez
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
Page  7
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-tures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
 
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
Dollars)
Financed
(1)
Part A of the Project
(a)
Grants under Part A.1
110,000,000
50% of grant 
amounts 
disbursed
(b)
Grants under Part A.2
 15,000,000
50% of grant 
amounts 
disbursed
(c)
Consultants’ Services
and Training
  8,000,000
100%
(d)
Goods
  2,000,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Part B of the Project
(a) Part 
B.1:
(i)
Goods
  5,000,000
100% of 
foreign 
expenditures 
and 85% 
of local 
expenditures
(ii)
Consultants’  
21,000,000
100%
Services and Training
(b)
Matching grants under
 31,500,000
100% of 
amounts
Part B.2
disbursed by
CONACYT
(c)
Consultants’
  4,000,000
100%
Services, Training
and Promotion
Services under
Part B.3
(d)
Goods
  1,000,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and 85%
of local 
expenditures
(3) 
Part C of the Project
(a)
Matching grants under
Part C.1:
(i)
pilot phase
   5,000,000
100% of 
Page  8
amounts 
disbursed by 
CONACYT
(ii)
implementation 
  25,000,000
100% of 
amounts
phase
disbursed by 
CONACYT
(b)
Matching loans under
  35,000,000
100% of 
amounts
Part C.2
disbursed by
CONACYT
(c)
Equity Contribution
   5,000,000
up to 20% of
under Part C.3 
Approved 
Initial
Capitalization
(d)
Consultants’ Services
   2,500,000
100%
under Part C.4 
(4)
Unallocated
  30,000,000
  __________
TOTAL
 300,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Guarantor;
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Guarantor;
(c) 
the term “Promotion Services” means  production and 
dissemination of booklets, brochures, promotional videos and other 
promotional documentation; organization of seminars, workshops, and 
specialized encounters and meetings; Internet page preparation; and 
travel expenses (including per diem or subsistence expenses) for the 
foregoing, for visits to universities and research centers by CONACYT 
staff, and for staff or members of Project coordinating units and the 
private sector advisory council of the Director General of CONACYT;
(d) 
the term “Training” means travel expenses (including per 
diem or subsistence expenses) for organization of or attendance at 
workshops, seminars, courses and study tours; acquisition and production 
of training materials; rental of facilities; fees for trainers; and 
fellowships; 
(e)
the term “Equity Contribution” means the equity contribution 
made or to be made by CONACYT in accordance with a detailed proposal to 
be made by CONACYT to the Bank for the establishment and operation of a 
pilot capital venture fund under Part C.3 of the Project, as approved by 
the Bank; and
(f)
the term “Approved Initial Capitalization” means the amount 
of  the initial capitalization of the pilot venture capital fund to be 
established under Part C.3 of the Project as approved by the Bank 
pursuant to the proposal referred to in subparagraph (e) above.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: 
Page  9
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after April 14, 1998;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the technical committee 
referred to in Chapter 2, paragraph 21 of the Project Implementation Plan 
has been established;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (c) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Bank has approved 
CONACYT’s detailed proposal for the establishment and operation of a 
pilot capital venture fund under Part C.3 of the Project referred to in 
paragraph 2 (e) of this Schedule; and
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Category 3 (a) (ii) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Bank has approved 
the operational manual referred to in Schedule 2, Section III, paragraph 
1 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for 
expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $350,000 equivalent;
(b)
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent and services of individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and
(c)
grants and loans under Parts A.1, A.2, B.2, C.1 and C.2 of 
the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote the generation, 
diffusion and application of knowledge for strengthening scientific 
development and for the promotion of innovation in support of economic 
development in the territory of the Guarantor.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Science and Technology Research
Improvement of the quality, quantity and relevance of science and 
technology research through:
1.
The provision of grants for competitive, peer-evaluated science and 
technology projects to consolidate advances in existing disciplines and 
for the Young Researchers Program.
2.
Provision of support for fundamental and applied science and 
technology research to accelerate the development of lagging or emerging 
disciplines of scientific relevance and of  economic or social 
importance:
(a)
the development of new networks and new academic programs; 
and
(b)
direct support through grants for specific research 
projects.
Page  10
3.
Carrying out of in-depth  evaluations of the different disciplines 
supported by CONACYT, execution of special studies designed to contribute 
to the quality of CONACYT’s policy-making and funding decisions, and 
execution of other studies related to scientific development in the 
territory of the Guarantor.
Part B:  Academia-Private Sector Linkages 
Creation and strengthening of mechanisms and institutions that 
facilitate the interaction of the academic and private sectors through:
1.
Restructuring of most SEP-CONACYT Research Centers to increase 
their capacity for self-financing and to increase their service to 
industry.
2.
Establishment, promotion and execution of a matching grant scheme 
to support joint projects between industry and academia in the following 
areas: applied research; product and process design, development and 
improvement; and technology adaptation and diffusion.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to universities and other 
institutions of higher learning to develop or strengthen a variety of 
outreach activities to the private sector, including: the creation or 
strengthening of outreach units; creation of joint advisory councils; and 
the carrying out of workshops, led by the private sector, in which 
academic researchers can learn about industrial problems.
Part C:
Enterprise Technology Development
1.
Establishment and execution of a  technology modernization program 
primarily for small and medium scale enterprises based on a decentralized 
network of local agents supported by CONACYT through a matching grant 
program.
2.
Establishment or expansion of regional or sector-based technology 
centers offering services primarily to small and medium scale enterprises 
and supported by CONACYT through a matching loan program.
3.
Establishment and operation of a pilot venture capital fund 
majority-owned and operated by the private sector to provide equity 
investments in start-up, technology-based enterprises.
4.
(a)
 Carrying out of a foresight-for-innovation process in 
selected sectors of the economy through:
(i)
the formation of a private-public sector committee to 
raise awareness of the benefits of technology foresight and to select 
pilot activities;
(ii)
execution of selected pilot activities; and
(iii)
diffusion of the lessons of the pilot activities. 
(b)
Design and implementation on a pilot basis of a 
technological and commercial information system.
(c)
Design and implementation of pilot activities to test 
emerging policy priorities of CONACYT.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
Page  11
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest 
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in such Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in 
which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed 
Amounts. Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from 
time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate 
Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described 
in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed 
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall 
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until 
final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, 
at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the day 
occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which 
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
Page  12
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that 
include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, 
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest 
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed 
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund 
single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount; plus; 
and
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of LIBOR Base 
Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread 
applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the 
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole 
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' 
notice to the Guarantor and the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis 
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the 
Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15, the first such 
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last 
such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each 
installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if 
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to 
the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after March 15, 2014, the 
Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all such 
installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank 
shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization 
Page  13
schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $10,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the amount of $40,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of 
the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  14
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
