Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18797
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION CREDIT
(Credit No. 3030-VN)
January 15, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1999)
Currency Unit   =   Dong (VND)
VND 1,000   =   US$0.072
US$1.00   =   D 13,900
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
BAC    -   Bank Advisory Committee
CG    -   Consultative Group
COMECON    -   Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR    -   Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DRE    -   Debt Reduction Equivalent
ESAF    -   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FDI   -   Foreign Direct Investment
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
IDA    -   International Development Association
ICR    -   Implementation Completion Report
IFC    -   International Financial Corporation
IMF    -   International Monetary Fund
LIBOR    -   London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MOF    -   Ministry of Finance
MPI   -   Ministry of Planning and Investment
ODA    -   Official Development Assistance
PDI   -   Past Due Interest Rate
PFP    -   Policy Framework Paper
SAC    -   Structural Adjustment Credit
SBV    -   State Bank of Vietnam
SOE    -   State-Owned Enterprise
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
WTO    -   World Trade Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President                                Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director, Vietnam                     Andrew Steer
Sector Manager, PREM (Acting)                 R. Kyle Peters, Jr.
Task Manager                                  Thang-Long Ton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION CREDIT
(Credit No. 3030-VN)
CONTENTS
Preface     ........................................................             i
Evaluation Summary      .                                                       ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment   ............................        I
The Setting 1
Program Objectives and Design                                           3
Achievement of Objectives                                               4
Bank Performance.                                                       5
Borrower Performance.                                                   5
Assessment of Outcome, Sustainability, and Lessons Learned   ........    6
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table  1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5 - 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
A.    Mission's Back-to-Office Report
B.    Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C.    Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION CREDIT
[CREDIT NO. 3030-VNI
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Debt and Debt Service
Reduction (DDSR) Credit to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, for which a credit in the
amount of US$35 million equivalent was approved on January 6, 1998, and made effective
on March 9, 1998.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1998, the original closing date. The loan was
fully disbursed in one tranche on March 12, 1998. There was no co-financing. IDA had
earlier approved a grant of US$1 million from the Debt Reduction Facility for IDA-only
countries to assist the Government in the preparation of the negotiations with the London
Club creditors represented by the Bank Advisory Committee (BAC).
The ICR was prepared by Thang-Long Ton (Economist, EASPR) of the East Asia
and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Mr. R. Kyle Peters, Jr., (Acting Sector Manager,
EASPR) and Mr. Andrew Steer (Country Director, EACVF) of that Region. The Borrower
provided comments on the draft ICR that are included as Appendix B to the ICR.
The ICR is based on material in the project file and a mission in November 1998.
The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own comments on
the draft ICR.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 3030-VN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    For the past decade, the Government of Vietnam has pursued an economic reform
program aimed at transforming its centrally planned system into a market-based economy
and at reintegrating the country into the world economy. A key component of this program
was the restoration of Vietnam's external creditworthiness, the main feature of which was
the resolution of its external debt burden, a legacy of the pre-reforrn period.
2.   In this context, the Government initiated a four-pronged approach. First, official
debt arrears with the Paris Club were settled in December 1993 with a comprehensive
rescheduling, involving a 50 percent reduction of the net present value of the consolidated
debt. Second, a Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) Agreement was concluded with
the London Club creditors on convertible currency commercial debt arrears. Third,
outstanding liabilities in non-convertible currencies were rescheduled and converted to
convertible currency on highly favorable terms based on agreements with all creditors
except with the Russian Federation. Negotiations with the Russian Federation are ongoing,
but progress has been slow. Finally, the Government intended to improve its debt
management and monitoring capability with close supervision of borrowings by state
enterprises and restrictions and control imposed on letters of credit and nonconcessional
loans by the public sector to ensure future debt servicing capacity.
DDSR Agreement
3.   In 1997, after two years of negotiations, the Government reached an agreement
with its London Club creditors on the financial terms of a debt and debt service reduction
(DDSR) plan that settled all of its roughly US$800 million in outstanding private
uninsured commercial debt (including interest) in arrears. The Agreement was a Brady-
type DDSR agreement similar to those for IBRD countries and was closed on March 12,
1998. The Agreement yielded a 43 percent reduction in the present value of the stock of
eligible debt, according to the Bank's estimate. The upfront cost of the Agreement
amounted to about US$ 54 million, including the cost of the buyback, interest and principal
collateral on the discount bond, principal collateral on the par bond, and interest
downpayment.



iii
The Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) Credit
4.    At the Government request for IDA support to implement the DDSR Agreement
above, this Credit, in the amount of SDR 25.2 million (equivalent to US$35 million)
helped finance the debt buyback and a portion of the interest and principal collateral of the
par and discount bonds. The Credit followed a Grant of US$1 million from the Debt
Reduction Facility for IDA-only countries that was approved by the Bank's Board in March
1995 to assist Vietnam in the financing of advisory assistance for the negotiations of the
DDSR Agreement. The Government of Japan contributed programmatic support for the
commercial debt reduction in 1994. There was no other additional financing from bilateral
and multilateral sources. The IMF did not provide financial support for the DDSR
Agreement, which it considered fully funded by this IDA credit and Vietnam's own
resources.
Achievement of Objectives
5.    The DDSR Agreement fulfilled the short-term objective by restructuring Vietnam's
eligible commercial debts (except one creditor), including past due interest. A substantial
reduction in interest was effected through interest recalculation and forgiveness of interest
penalty. IDA contributed to the Government's effort with a technical assistance grant from
the Debt Reduction Facility to assist in the negotiations and completion of this Agreement
with the London Club creditors.
6.    With the support of this Credit and the completion of the DDSR Agreement,
Vietnam made another important step toward facilitating the normalization of its relations
with the international financial community and to overcome the debt burden accumulated
in the pre-reform period. At the same time, this Credit helped to create a positive
environment to facilitate Vietnam's efforts to reintegrate its economy into the international
financial markets.
7.    At the time the Agreement closed, it was estimated that Vietnam would obtain 71
percent of the overall benefits of the Agreement. However, since then, the secondary
market prices of the debt instruments have fallen by slightly less than half. This reflects
international experiences which shows that "debt reduction operations may be a necessary,
but clearly are not a sufficient, condition for the restoration of growth and a return to some
degree of creditworthiness. Implementation of a satisfactory macroeconomic adjustment
program is absolutely critical in restoring economic growth and external viability." ' Thus,
for the longer term, the full benefits of the DDSR Agreement will not be realized unless the
Government of Vietnam follows through quickly and decisively on its recent
announcements to accelerate the reform process.
World Bank, Memorandum to the Executive Directors: Review of the Program to Support Debt and Debt Service
Reduction, March 6, 1992.



iv
Bank Performance
8.    Bank staff responded quickly to the Government's request for assistance and
cooperated closely with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Departments of the State Bank
of Vietnam (SBV) to implement the Credit once the negotiations of the DDSR Agreement
was completed. Timely communications and quick response by Bank staff were critical in
assisting the Government in the conclusion of the DDSR Agreement with tight deadlines
due to the fixed schedules.
Borrower Performance
9.    The Borrower's performance was satisfactory, given the exacting schedule of
financial transactions of the DDSR Agreement, the weak institutional capacity of the
Government, and its inexperience with international capital market transactions.
Cooperation with Bank staff was good during all stages of the Credit.
Sustainability, Lessons Learned, and Assessment of Outcome
10.  In the short run, the DDSR operation was satisfactory. In practical terms, Vietnam
largely achieved its immediate objective of reducing the burden and uncertainty of its
external obligations as part of its overall external debt management strategy. The DDSR
Agreement regularized the country's commercial debts in a sustainable way, both in terms
of resulting external and fiscal obligations.
11.   Combined with the IDA Credit, the Grant from the Debt Reduction Facility
provided effective assistance in the form of legal and financial advisors for the staff of the
State Bank in the negotiations with the Bank Advisory Committee and the subsequent
implementation of the DDSR Agreement and the IDA Credit.  Cooperation and
coordination between Government officials and Bank staff were effective in the
preparation, appraisal, and subsequent implementation of the DDSR Credit.
12.   The positive effects of the debt restructuring exercise are uncertain in the long run,
however. Ultimately, as international experience demonstrates, the sustainability of the
debt restructuring exercise will depend on the implementation of a sound macroeconomic
program and structural reforms. After a decade of economic expansion and stabilization,
the abeyance in the momentum of reforms during the past two years has not properly
positioned Vietnam so as to realize the full benefits of this debt restructuring exercise. The
current Southeast Asian financial crisis and its drawn-out effects on the Asian economies
might further becloud the expected beneficial prospects for Vietnam. Although the Asian
financial crisis did not expand to Vietnam, it already reduced its ability to access
international medium- and long-term commercial credits, which the country would need
for infrastructure rehabilitation and economic development. Realizing the full benefits of
the external debt restructuring, therefore, requires the continuing implementation of a
consistent structural reform program. Recent Government announcements that suggest



v
further progress in structural reforms portend well for the economy's growth prospects and
its ability to reap the full benefits of the DDSR Agreement.
13.   Finally, the Government will also need to implement the next two activities in the
overall strategy on external debt in order to achieve the full benefits of the DDSR
Agreement, namely, to negotiate for a successful conclusion of a debt rescheduling
package with the Russian Federation and to institute a coordinate approach to external debt
management in order to insure the country's sustained ability to borrow and to service its
external obligations in the future.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION CREDIT
(Credit No. 3030-VN)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
The Setting
1.    Economic Setting. For the past decade, the Government of Vietnam has pursued
an economic reform program aimed at transforming its centrally planned system into a
market-based economy.   The program's key elements included macroeconomic
stabilization, price liberalization, opening of the economy to trade and investment,
improving incentive for private sector growth through reforms of the legal and regulatory
framework and the state enterprise sector. The Government also sought to reintegrate the
country into the world economy.  The initial results of this reform program were
encouraging with real growth averaging about eight percent annually during 1990-97,
driven by significant growth in exports and in investment, although the momentum began
slowing since 1996, affected largely by a slowing of the structural reform effort and
exacerbated more recently by the financial crisis in the region. Up to 1997, Vietnam was
able to attract significant levels of foreign direct investment (FDI) and large commitments
of official development assistance (ODA), evidence of its successful re-integration strategy
into the international community. However, economic performance has slowed in the past
two years, as the reform process appeared to be in abeyance and the regional situation
worsened.
2.    External debt strategy. The country's stated reintegration strategy included the
Government's desire to normalize its relations with the international financial system
through an appropriate external debt management strategy. As part of its overall reform
program, the Government of Vietnam initiated a four-pronged approach to restore its
external creditworthiness and re-integrate the country into the international financial
system. First, it settled its official debt arrears with the Paris Club in December 1993 with
a comprehensive rescheduling of arrears on medium- and long-term debt contracted before
January 1990. This exit rescheduling involved a 50 percent reduction of the net present
value of the consolidated debt and effectively provided a restructuring of the stock of debt.
All bilateral agreements have now been finalized.
3.    The second element of this approach was the finalization of the Debt and Debt
Service Reduction Agreement with the London Club creditors on its convertible currency



2
commercial debt in arrears. This DDSR Credit supported the realization of the second
element.
4.    Thirdly, Vietnam is making progress in resolving its outstanding liabilities in non-
convertible currencies, the resolution of which in a sustainable way would be essential to
restoring external creditworthiness.  All Transferable Ruble debts to the formner
COMECON countries have now been rescheduled and converted into convertible currency
terns on highly favorable terms, with the exception of debt to the Russian Federation.
Negotiations with the Russian Federation have been ongoing, but there has been no
progress toward a sustainable resolution.
5.    Finally, the Government intends to improve its debt management and monitoring
capability. In the near term, the Government is monitoring more closely the borrowing of
state enterprises and external loans guaranteed by parent companies in the context of
foreign investment contracts to ensure that they are invested in approved foreign
investment projects and do not involve any implicit public sector guarantees. Restrictions
and control have also been imposed on the use of letters of credits and on the contracting
and guaranteeing of nonconcessional loans by the public sector to ensure that future
obligations are consistent with Vietnam's debt servicing capacity.
6.    Over the medium term, the Government intends to put in place a coordinated
approach to external debt management with support from the World Bank, the UNDP and
other donors. A seminar on external debt management was organized in May 1997 by the
Govermment and the World Bank for senior policy makers and other staff involved in debt
management. After the seminar, the Government prepared an action plan which involved
revising the legal framework for debt management to improve coordination and assign
clearer responsibility to relevant ministries and the State Bank. An inter-governmental
body will be formed to manage and monitor external borrowing in the near future. In
November 1998, the Government promulgated Decree No. 90 which clarifies the
responsibilities on borrowing and debt repayment among the concerned agencies.
7.    Steps in the restoration of external creditworthiness. The settlement of the
overdue commercial debts of Vietnam constituted an important component in normalizing
its relations with the international financial community. As soon as Vietnamn concluded its
agreement with the Paris Club in 1993, the Government turned its attention to its London
Club commercial creditors in 1994. The creditors were represented by a Bank Advisory
Committee (BAC), chaired by the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi and ANZ Bank. In May
1996, the Government reached an agreement in principles with its London Club creditors
on the general financial terms of a debt and debt service reduction plan that settled all of
Vietnam's outstanding private uninsured commercial debt (including interest) in arrears,
except for one creditor who did not participate. A final term sheet was issued to all
creditors on January 20, 1997. The Agreement is a Brady-type DDSR agreement similar to
those for IBRD countries. It closed on March 12, 1998.



3
8.    Under the Agreement, Vietnam offered three options to creditors for eligible
principal. These claims could be tendered for (a) a buyback at a price of 44 cents for each
dollar of eligible principal and associated interest arrears; (b) a discount bond issued at 50
percent of the principal amount with a single payment of principal on maturity in 30 years
with the principal and six-month interest fully collateralized; and/or (c) a par bond with 30-
year maturity, semi-annual payments and with the last principal repayment (equivalent to
50 percent of the face value of the bond) collateralized. Past due interest (PDI) not
exchanged under the buyback option could be exchanged for a past due interest bond with
18-year maturity and no collateralization, (with a $15 million upfront cash payment). The
upfront cost of the Agreement, amounted to US$54 million, was financed jointly from the
Government's own resources and the IDA credit. The DDSR Agreement restructured
virtually all of Vietnam's unsecured commercial credits in arrears. At the final closing, all
creditors (except one) participated in the DDSR Agreement, accounting for 94 percent of
the debt eligible under the Agreement. The Agreement therefore covered US$ 827.6
million,' consisting of US$ 317.5 million in principal and US$ 510.1 million in past due
interest.
Program Objectives and Design
9.    Objectives. This IDA credit was a response to the Government's request for IDA
support to implement the DDSR Agreement. An IDA credit was deemed justified by the
Bank's Board, given that the terms of Vietnam's DDSR Agreement were substantively
different from those envisaged when the IDA Debt Reduction Facility was established and
also from the operations supported by the Facility. The Vietnam DDSR Agreement was a
traditional Brady-type, involving a debt buyback and bonds. In addition, the resources
plan for IDA Debt Reduction Facility did not include financing the operation in Vietnam.
This credit supported the Government by financing the DDSR Agreement which reduced
the face value of eligible debt through the discount bond and the buyback, to postpone
amortization on the remaining balance until eight years after the closing date, and to
regularize interest arrears through an interest downpayment and an exchange of the
remaining past due interest for a bond. This IDA credit justified Bank's support of
Vietnam to its creditors.
10.   Design. The IDA credit with an amount of SDR 25.2 million (equivalent to US$
35 million) helped to finance the debt buyback and a portion of the interest and principal
collateral of the par and discount bonds.  In addition, at the beginning of formal
negotiations with the BAC, a Grant of US$ 1 million from the Debt Reduction Facility for
IDA-only countries was approved by the Bank's Board in March 1995 to assist in the
financing of advisory assistance for the preparation of the DDSR Agreement. The
Government of Japan contributed programmatic support for the commercial debt reduction
in 1994. There was no other additional financing from bilateral and multilateral sources.
The IMF did not provide financial support for the DDSR Agreement, which it considered
One creditor did not participate in this arrangement, so that the amount of debt rescheduled amounted
to US$ 797.1 million.



4
fully funded by this IDA credit and Vietnam's own resources. However, the IMF prepared
a letter of comfort from the Managing Director as part of the Financing Plan to encourage
creditors' participation in the DDSR Agreement.
11.   The conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit included:  (a) Vietnam's
confirmation of the availability of resources which, together with the proceeds of the
Credit, were adequate to finance the implementation of the DDSR Agreement; (b)
requirement that the DDSR Agreement's documents be satisfactory to IDA; and (c) a legal
opinion from the Borrower satisfactory to IDA that the Credit Agreement was valid and
legally binding on the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
12.   Arrangements for disbursement of the IDA Credit were set forth in the Credit
Agreement. The proceeds were disbursed for cash payments required for the debt buyback
and the collateral requirements for the par and discount bonds. Up to 100 percent
retroactive financing was provided if needed on the basis of eligible expenditures incurred
after July 10, 1997. The Government was required to have the records and accounts of the
payment financed out of the proceeds of the Credit audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and to furnish to IDA audit reports and other information regarding
those records and accounts and the audit thereof.
Achievement of Objectives
13.   The completion of this Credit helped Vietnam achieve its basic and immediate
objectives: the normalization of Vietnam's financial standing with its commercial creditors.
The Credit supported the DDSR Agreement which restructured almost all eligible
commercial debts, including past due interest. Eligible debt was allocated under the
Financing Plan as follows: 6.6 percent to the buyback option; 76.8 percent to the par bond;
and 16.6 percent to the discount bond. A substantial reduction in interest was effected
through interest recalculation at LIBOR + 13/16, a 50 percent reduction of interest on
interest, and the forgiveness of the default margin. In total, this resulted in a reduction of
past due interest of US$ 154.6 million. US$21.8 million of the recalculated past due
interest was exchanged under the buyback option along with the original principal. After a
US$15 million interest downpayment, about US$294.8 million was exchanged for the PDI
bond. The upfront cost of the Agreement amounted to about US$ 54 million, including the
cost of the buyback, interest and principal collateral on the discount bond, principal
collateral on the par bond, and the interest downpayment.
14.   The debt service implications of the DDSR were very small, amounting to one to
two percent on Vietnam's debt service ratio.  Thus the DDSR Agreement resolved
Vietnam's commercial debt situation in a financially sustainable way. Additional benefits
included the reduction of uncertainty regarding Vietnam's balance of payments and fiscal
situation as the Agreement regularized the country's debt service obligations. The debt
relief of almost 50 percent in net present value termns was realized in this DDSR operation,
consistent with the terms of the agreement with the Paris Club.



5
15.   With the DDSR Agreement, supported by this IDA credit, Vietnam has made
important progress in the normalization of its relations with commercial creditors and
completed a critical component in its approach to overcome the debt burden accumulated
in the pre-reform period. This Agreement was also expected to assist the country in the
reintegration of its economy into the international financial market. However, the Asian
financial crisis beclouded these prospects for international reintegration for Vietnam.
Further, research on international experiences shows that "debt reduction operations may
be a necessary, but clearly are not a sufficient, condition for the restoration of growth and a
return to  some degree of creditworthiness.   Implementation  of a satisfactory
macroeconomic adjustment program is absolutely critical in restoring economic growth
and external viability." 2 For the longer term, the benefits of the DDSR Agreement will not
be realized unless the Government of Vietnam follows through quickly and decisively on
its recent announcements to accelerate the reform process.
Bank Performance
16.   Once the DDSR Agreement was completed, the DDSR Credit was processed and
approved quickly by the Bank's Board in January 1998. The Grant from IDA Debt
Reduction Facility provided effective support to the Government during the critical period
of negotiations with BAC, representing the London Club creditors.
17.   The Credit was declared effective on March 9, 1998 and was fully disbursed in one
tranche on March 12, 1998, one day after the DDSR Agreement was concluded. Bank staff
cooperated closely with the Foreign Exchange Department and Foreign Department of the
State Bank of Vietnam to implement the Credit. Timely communications and quick
actions by Bank staff were the key to assist the Government in the conclusion of the DDSR
Agreement as funds were required to be transferred at the determined dates to the creditors.
There were also close and effective coordination and cooperation between Operations,
Legal, and Disbursement staff to effect timely transactions across time zones. Bank staff
also participated in the Road Show in Paris and Tokyo to help support the DDSR
Agreement. A letter of comfort from the Bank's President was provided as part of the
Financing Plan to seek the creditors' support for the DDSR Agreement.
Borrower Performance
18.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory, given the exacting schedule of the
financial transactions of the Agreement, the weak institutional capacity of the Government,
and its inexperience with international capital market transactions. Government officials in
the Foreign Exchange Department and the Foreign Department of the State Bank
cooperated in a timely manner to effect the transactions as required by the DDSR
Agreement. They cooperated and worked smoothly with Bank staff in the Operations,
Legal, and Disbursements units to implement the required transactions. There were several
2  World Bank, Memorandum to the Executive Directors: Review of the Programn to Support Debt and Debt Service
Reduction. March 6. 1992.



6
unexpected delays in the implementation of the DDSR Agreement which affected the
Board schedule of the IDA Credit. These delays were due to the inadequate institutional
and legal infrastructures in Vietnam, including the lack of an appropriate institutional
authority to undertake some necessary legal steps. Cooperation with Bank staff was good
during the preparation and appraisal stages of the Credit. Government officials showed
strong ownership of the project throughout the negotiation process of the DDSR
Agreement.
Assessment of Outcome, Sustainability, and Lessons Learned
19.   Assessment of Outcome. The DDSR Agreement brought about satisfactory results
for Vietnam. The Agreement with the London Club creditors effected a substantial debt
reduction of about 43 percent of the eligible debt at a net cost of US$ 54 million based on
the Bank's estimate, comparable to other DDSR operations. Vietnam also regularized the
country's debt obligations and resolved its commercial debt in a sustainable way, both in
the balance of payments and in the state budget. Debt relief of almost 50 percent in net
present value terms compared consistently with the terms of the agreement with the Paris
Club. At that point in time, it was estimated that Vietnam would obtain 71 percent of the
overall benefits of the Agreement.3 However, since then, the secondary market prices of
the debt instruments have fallen by slightly less than half. This reduction reflects both the
worsened external environment stemming from the regional crisis as well as the perception
of weakened prospects for Vietnam.
20.   Sustainability. The expected beneficial prospects for Vietnam from the DDSR
Agreement -- namely setting the stage for the country to regain access to international
markets -- have been adversely affected by the Government's slow implementation of key
structural reforms, particularly in the SOE sector and the banking system. The Southeast
Asian financial crisis and its drawn-out effects on the Asian economies have also adversely
affected the potential beneficial effects, as regional growth has slowed and capital flows
have shrunk. This has reduced Vietnam's access to medium- and long-term commercial
credits which the country needs for infrastructure rehabilitation and development. Both the
lack of progress on structural reforms and the Asian financial crisis have been reflected in
the decrease in the foreign direct investment flows to Vietnam from the neighboring
countries in the past two years.
21.   Key Lessons Learned. The DDSR operation was successfully completed and
Vietnam has largely achieved its immediate objective of reducing the uncertainly in its
external obligations as part of its overall strategy on external debt management. The Grant
from the Debt Reduction Facility provided effective assistance in the form of legal and
financial consultants for the staff of the State Bank to master the intricacies of international
finances and debt restructuring activities. This assistance played a key role in the SBV's
negotiations with BAC and also the relatively smooth implementation of the DDSR
The World Bank, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on a Proposed Debt and Debt
Service Reduction Credit, Report No. P-72 10-VN, December 12, 1997, Table 5, page 11.



7
Agreement and this IDA Credit. It allowed for strong ownership of the program by the
Government as its staff learned and practiced on the job the process of debt restructuring
and the transaction requirements of international markets.
22.   Cooperation and coordination between Government officials and Bank staff were
effective in the preparation, appraisal and subsequent implementation of the DDSR Credit,
given the exacting financial procedures and requirements for international transactions.
23.   The normalization of Vietnam's financial obligations and the access to international
financial markets can only be seen as one of the many important steps in the quest to
reintegrate the country into the international community.   However, international
experience 4 indicates that the full benefits of a debt rescheduling can only be achieved if it
is implemented in the context of a viable structural reform program. To be successful,
Vietnam's debt restructuring effort should also go hand in hand with and supported by a
comprehensive structural adjustment program so that the benefits from the DDSR
Agreement could be fully realized. Recent Government announcements that suggest
further progress in structural reforms portend well for the economy's growth prospects and
its ability to reap the full benefits of the DDSR Agreement.
24.   Finally, as discussed earlier, to achieve the full benefits of the DDSR, the
Government will also need to implement the two next activities in the overall strategy on
external debt, namely, to negotiate for a successful conclusion of a debt rescheduling
package with the Russian Federation and to institute a coordinate approach to external debt
management in order to insure a sustained ability to borrow and to service its external
obligations in the future.
World Bank. Memorandum to the Executive Directors: Review of the Program to Support Debt and Debt Seirvice
Reduction. op.cit.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE REDUCTION CREDIT
(Credit No. 3030-VN)
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5 - 6:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial          Partial          Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                         LIII
Sector policies
Financial objectives                                                 Zill             L
Institutional development      LI                  L                 L                  L
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives                           L                  L                111
Environmental objectives                                                              F 7I
Public sector management                          [                  LI                 LI
Private sector development      LI                 L                 L                  L
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability             Likely                  Unlikel                 Uncertain
C. Bank performance             Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance           |                                                     I]
Appraisal                          W/                     Li                       Lr
Supervision                                                  W
D. Borrower performance         Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory              Def icient
Preparation                      |       |_
Implementation
Covenant compliance                                          W | 7
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome      Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Highly unsatisfactory
LI    LI   LI    II



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/credit title                         Purpose              Approval   Status
Preceding operations
1. SAC I                          Sustain a high growth rate     1994     completed
Smooth transition to a market
economy
2. Payment system and bank     Improvement in payment services
modernization project      and institutional capacity building  1996    on-going
3. Grant from the Debt Reduction   Provide funding assistance for  1995   Completed
Facility for IDA-only countries    financial and legal advisors to the
Government in its negotiations
with the Bank Advisory
Committee (BAC)
Following operations
3. SAC II                         Increase of the economy's       na         being
competitiveness through leveling           prepared
the playing field between private
and state enterprises.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned           Date actual
Identification                              November 1995           January 1996
Preparation                                   January 1996           July 1996
Appraisal                                     March 1997             May 1997
Negotiations                                   May 1997              July 1997
Board presentation                             June 1997          January 6, 1998
Signing                                           Na              January 12, 1998
Effectiveness                                     Na               March 9, 1998
First and only tranche release                    na              March 12, 1998
Project completion                           June 30, 1998         June 30, 1998
Loan closing                                 June 30, 1998         June 30, 1998



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 1998
Appraisal estimate                                                 35.0
Actual                                                             35.0
Actual as percent of estimate                                     100.0
Date of final disbursement                                    March 12, 1998
Table 5 - 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
1. Key implementation indicators in SAR/     Estimated
President's Report                         Target            Actual
Not Applicable                Not Applicable    Not Applicable
II. Other indicators
Not Applicable                Not Applicable    Not Applicable



Tabie 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisaUredefined       Status             Impact of study
None                 Not applicable
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)              Actual estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                    Local       Foreign
Source           costs        costs        Total        costs        costs       Total
IDA                                  35.0        35.0                      35.0         35.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)           Actual estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Source               costs       costs      Total       costs       costs     Total
IDA                                        35.0       35.0                    35.0       35.0
Cofinancing institutions
None
TOTAL                                      35.0       35.0                    35.0       35.0
Note: Figures are rounded.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not available since this is a policy-based credit)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants i/
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Structural Adjustment Credit
Cove-               Original   Revised          Description
Nant   Present   Fulfill-    fulfill-                of
Agreement       Section      Type    status        ment        ment           covenant              Comments
Date        date
DDSR                         I         C                               Maintenance of
records and
accounts.
Covenant types:                                                                        Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                     8 = Indigenous people                  C  = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue       9 = Monitoring, review, and            CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries           reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project    10 = Project implementation not         CP = complied with partially
funds                                   covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                It = Sectoral or cross-sectoral         NC = not complied with
budgetary or other resource
allocation
5 = Management aspects of the          12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
project or executing agency             policy/regulatory/institutional
action
6 = Environmental covenants            13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



Table 11: Compliance with Operations Manual Statements
No significant variance with the Operations Manual Statements based on documents in the
project file.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                          Actual
project cycle                        Weeks                       US$ (000)
Through Appraisal                        35.7                        94.8
Appraisal - Board                        6.6                         17.6
Board - effectiveness                     2.4                          5.5
Supervision                           0.0                          0.0
Completion
TOTAL                               44.7                         117.9
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Specialized
Number   Days        staff     Implemen-  Develop-   Types
Stage of         Month/       of       in        skills       tation     ment        of
project cycle       Year      persons   field   represented     status    objective  Problems
s
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through    Jul97         2        7        E, L
Board approval
Board approval                                                               HS
through effectiveness
Supervision                                         E           HS         HS
Completion        Nov 98        1        7          E           HS         HS
1. Specialization                2. Performance Rating                 3. Types of Problems
E = Economist                     HS = Highly satisfactory             F = Financial
L = Lawyer                         S = Satisfactory                    T = Technical
U = Unsatisfactory                  M = Managerial



THE WORLD BANKIIFC/M.I.G.A.                                                       Appendix A
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:  December 15, 1998
TO:  Mr. R. Kyle Peters, Acting Manager, EASPR
FROM:  Thang-Long Ton, EASPR
EXTENSION:  80496
SUBJECT:  Vietnam -- Implementation Completion Report for the Debt and Debt Service
Reduction Credit (Cr. 3030-VN): Back-to-Office Report
1.    Per my terms of reference, I went to Vietnam to discuss the draft Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Credit (Cr. 3030-
VN). I had earlier sent the draft ICR to the State Bank for their review and comments.
2.    I had a series of working sessions with the officials of the State Bank of Vietnam
on the ICR. At the Foreign Exchange Department, I met with Mrs. Vu Phuong Lien,
Deputy Director, and Mr. Nguyen Van Thanh, Deputy Division Chief, who was involved
in the London Club negotiations from the beginning to the conclusion of the agreement.
Both Mrs. Lien and Mr. Thanh reviewed the draft ICR and were in agreement with the
assessment of the ICR. Mr. Thanh made several factual corrections and additions
concerning the final figures of the debt eligible for the Financing Plan. He also made
some comments on the presentation and the tone of the report. All of these were
incorporated into the ICR. Mrs. Lien and Mr. Thanh asked for some clarifications of a
few points in the report and these were explained to their satisfaction.
3.    At the Foreign Department, I met with Mr. Ha Dan Huan, Director, and Mr. Do
Hung on the draft ICR. They agreed in general with the content of the report and have no
further comments.
4.    I informed the staff of the State Bank that the Government could choose to
contribute a separate section to be included in the ICR. Both Mrs. Vu Phuong Lien and
Mr. Ha Dan Huan agreed to provide a brief statement. The staff of the two departments
subsequently coordinated among them and prepared a draft statement from the
Government for the ICR. The statement will be submitted to the Deputy Governor Le
Duc Thuy for signature before forwarding to us on December 19, 1998.
5.    Upon my return, I have finalized the ICR for proper clearance and processing.
cc.   Mmes./Messrs. M. Kawai, K. Peters, W. Ding (EASPR)



Appendix B
Page 1
STATE BANK OF VIEETNAM
47-49 Ly Thai To Street, Hanoi, Vietnam
TeL: 84 4934336116; Fax: 84 48250612
Date: December 3, 1998
To:  Mr. Andrew Steer
Director
VLetiam Departnent
The World Bank                                Fax: 8 432471
Subject: ICR forDDSR CreditNo. 3030-FN
Dear Mr. Steer,
Thank you for the draft Inplementation Completion Report for the Debt and Debt
Service Reduction Credit No 3030-VN. We have reviewed it and found its content
consistent with our overall assessment of its implementation and achievement of
objectives.
We highly appreciate the importance and sigiificance of the Credit as it helps
restructure Vietnam's outstanding private uninsued commercial debt (including
interest) in arrears of roughly US $800 million.
After Govemment's completion of the Paris Club negotiations in 1993 to settLe our
sovereign debt, the finalization of the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Agreement
with Vletnam's London CIub creditors on its convertible currency commercial debt
in March 1998 has marked the important step as it contibutes to restore the
credibility ofthe country in the intemational financial market
Vietnam highly appreciates the assistance of the World Bank during the negotiation
process between the Government and Bank Advisory Committee through a technical
assistance grmt and the IDA credit for the upfront cost. Throughout the progress of
preparation for the Credit to be signed and executed, the co-operation between our
Government's and the World Bank's staff was very good Despite the Credit is the
first of its kind for us to prepare and sign, we have successfUlly finalized it due to the
effective assistance of the World Bank' staff We really appreciate yours and your
colleagues" effort, especially in the stage of disbursing the Credit's proceeds. Within
a very liited tume, the World Bank fuily disbursed the proceeds of the Credit to
enable Vietnam  to meet the London Club creditors' pre-scheduled payment
requirements.



Appendix B
Page 2
This assistance has contributed to the fuitful finaflzation of the Financing Plan
between Vietnan and creditors in the London Club, consttung an important
component in noializing the relations with the interational financial community.
However, m order to fuiher restore the exteal creditworthiess we have to
continue the progress of resolving the outstanding liabiities in non-convertible
cumencies and improving our capabiliy in debt management and monitoring.
We hope to receive your continued assistance in the fiture.
Sincerely yoSs
IThuy
First Deputy Govemor
cc:  Mr. Kyle Peters
Principal Economist
PREM                                         Fax: 202 522 1784
cc:  Mr. Thang Long Ton
Economist
PREM                                         Fax: 202 522 1784



I         I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,nnI
022
cha~~~~~~~~~~~~
VIETNAM                                                       I ;~~S
4~~~  AIRPORTS ~ ~          ~         ~        W
4,   PORTS~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~2116
L__  AIOAD PMOLE                                                  0bi D1
-   -   INTORNADONAL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'c-C
POVINETNA
I kadw~~~~~~  31 lloIN.,,66. ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~      N-
AIRPORTS0Nal
S  oGg     33QoT No-                                                                                     > ON'
4 O.YBN.    E CAPITALS       / 
5    AToNAL35KorrA
R01R015C 4                                                 MIl6 Ho., 'D,A
B3oGoJg    AR4SNigl.o            Qo     ~
1`6 Cho.gY      48 Th. T.I*d;MN
19Ho G-on      330 GoR.-V.. N oo
400iI'I.o       34 50I.-v N         .d.                                                                              I123 7558 T.IR6.
21 Hoo BIoS  SI tonISoog                      ~
22. Loo.        3s Dong T-
T. Y. o -r      3  " D.rJIT.                                                                  AC     " CDo
288 HoEd        38 CPh. Y.                 K,.1oA."o.~o   O'6166 So
S  0 Pho.,l.i      40 Ro..to H-
I__I_-_41___P I



