Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3030 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Debt and Debt Service Reduction Credit)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 12, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3030 VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1998 , between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The international banking community has responded favorably to the 
Borrower’s request, dated January 20, 1997 and denominated “1996-97 Financing Plan” 
(the Financing Plan), for participation in a debt and debt service reduction program 
designed to support the Borrower’s medium term macroeconomic objectives and policies, 
as a result of which the Borrower will: (i) purchase for cash the equivalent of 
approximately $41,000,000 of Eligible Debt (as defined in the Financing Plan) with a 
discount of 56%; (ii) issue Discount Bonds in exchange for the equivalent of 
approximately $50,000,000 of Eligible Debt; (iii) issue Par Bonds in exchange for the 
equivalent of approximately $232,000,000 of Eligible Debt; (iv) pay the equivalent of 
$15,000,000 in past due interest (PDI) on Eligible Debt and issue PDI Bonds in 
exchange for the equivalent of approximately $281,000,000 in PDI on Eligible Debt; and
(B)
The Borrower has requested the assistance of the Association in 
financing: (i) the purchase price of Eligible Debt to be purchased by the Borrower 
under the Financing Plan; (ii) a portion of the cost of the acquisition of collateral 
to secure principal and interest payments on the Discount Bonds to be issued in 
exchange for Eligible Principal under the Financing Plan; and (iii) a portion of the 
cost of the acquisition of collateral to secure principal payments on the Par Bonds to 
be issued in exchange for Eligible Principal under the Financing Plan; and WHEREAS the 
Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms wherever used in this 
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a)
“Collateral” means collateral pledged by the Borrower to secure: (i) 
principal and interest payments on the Discount Bonds; and (ii) principal payments on 
the Par Bonds, in accordance with agreements entered into pursuant to the Financing 
Plan and to be partially financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and “Specific 
Collateral” means the specific portions of the Collateral which shall have satisfied 
the requirements set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit under the table set forth in paragraph 1 of said Schedule. 
(b)
“Collateral Pledge Agreement” means the agreement made by the Borrower in 
favor of the collateral agent selected under the Financing Plan (the “Collateral 
Agent”), with respect to the Discount Bonds and the Par Bonds to be issued pursuant to 
such Financing Plan, in accordance with which the collateral for the Discount Bonds 
and the Par Bonds is to be maintained. 
(c)
“Debt Purchase Offer” means the offer to purchase Eligible Debt made by 
the Borrower under the Financing Plan.
(d)
“Discount Bond” means any collateralized 30-year discount bond issued by 
the Borrower under the Financing Plan. 
(e)
“Eligible Debt” has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Financing Plan. 
(f)
“Eligible Principal” has the meaning ascribed thereto in the Financing 
Plan. 
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, which begins on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year. 
(h)
“Par Bond” means any collateralized 30-year par bond issued by the 
Borrower under the Financing Plan. 
(i)
“Participating Lenders” means the commercial banks and other financial 
institutions holding Eligible Debt that have participated in the Financing Plan. 
(j)
“PDI” means past due interest. 
(k)
“PDI Bond” means any past due interest bond issued by the Borrower under 
the Financing Plan. 
(l)
“Purchase” means the aggregate of cash payments made by the Borrower to 
Participating Lenders under the agreements to be entered into pursuant to the Debt 
Purchase Offer and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and “Specific 
Purchase” means the specific portions of the Purchase which shall have satisfied the 
requirements set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit under the table set forth in paragraph 1 of said Schedule.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty five million two hundred thousand Special 
Page  3
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,200,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the acquisition 
of Collateral or the Purchase of Eligible Debt required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2008 and ending August 15, 2037.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  4
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. (d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms 
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so 
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the 
schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09.  (a)  Without any limitation on Section 5.02 of this Agreement or 
Section 7.01 of the General Conditions, upon the occurrence of any of the following 
events, the Association, at its option, may, by notice to the Borrower, require the 
Borrower to repay, in advance of maturity, such portion of the principal amount of the 
Credit then outstanding as specified below together with all accrued charges thereon: 
(i)
the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount of the Credit has not been used for the purpose of 
the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
in which case 
the amount of the Credit subject to 
prepayment shall be such 
amount as shall have been so 
determined; 
(ii)
any portion of the Collateral shall have been released to 
the Borrower and the acquisition cost of the remaining 
amount 
of the said Collateral shall be less than the amount 
of the acquisition 
cost of the Specific Collateral, in 
which case the amount of the 
proceeds of the Credit subject 
to prepayment shall be equal to: (A) the 
difference 
between: (1) the amount of the acquisition cost of 
the 
Specific Collateral; and (2) the acquisition cost of the 
said remaining amount of the Collateral; less (B) any 
amounts which have been previously prepaid pursuant to this 
Section 2.09(a)(ii) and any amounts which would have been 
subject to 
such prepayment but for the provisions of 
Section 2.09(b) of 
this Agreement. 
(b)
The provisions of subparagraph (a)(ii) above shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes, to the satisfaction of the Association, that the acquisition 
cost of such Collateral so released has been or will be used, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Association, to support further debt or debt service reduction activities of 
the Borrower.
(c)
The Borrower shall inform the Association of the occurrence of any of the 
events listed in paragraph (a) of this Section within seven (7) working days of the 
occurrence thereof. 
(d)
Prepayment of all or any portion of the Credit in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made on a date and in the currency specified by 
the Association.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
payments made in respect of the Project and financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
Page  5
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV 
Other Covenants
Section 4.01.  The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the Financing Plan.
Section 4.02.  Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions and Section 2.09(c) of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
at all times keep the Association informed of all notices, certificates 
and confirmations issued to or received by the Borrower in respect of the Collateral; 
and
(b)
provide to the Association copies of the monthly reports with respect to 
the Collateral to be delivered by the Collateral Agents to the Borrower pursuant to 
the provisions of the Collateral Pledge Agreement within fifteen (15) days of the 
receipt thereof.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable, in the 
opinion of the Association, that the Financing Plan, or any significant part thereof, 
will be carried out; and
(b)
that any event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially and adversely affects the maintenance of the Collateral under 
the agreements entered into by the Borrower pursuant to the Financing Plan.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  6
following event is specified, namely that any event specified in paragraph (b) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(c) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
that the Borrower has confirmed, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, the availability of resources which, together with the proceeds of 
the Credit, will be adequate to finance the implementation of the Financing Plan; and 
(b)
that the Borrower has entered, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, into agreements with Participating Lenders for the exchange or 
purchase of Eligible Debt, under the Financing Plan. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Governor, or any of the Deputy Governors, of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address: 
Telex:
VIETBANK
412248  NH TWVT
Hanoi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Page  7
By /s/ Le Duc Thuy
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Steer  
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         _
Amount of the
    % of
Credit Allocated
Expenditures
Category
Expressed in SDRs
to be Financed
(1)
Specific Purchase
13,500,000
100% of foreign
 expenditures 
 
(2)
Specific Collateral
11,700,000
100% of foreign 
for 
Discount Bonds
expenditures
and for Par Bonds
_________
Total
25,200,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for the 
Specific Purchase or the acquisition of Specific Collateral.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to July 10, 1997; (b) any 
Specific Purchase, unless the Borrower has furnished to the Association a certificate 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association to the effect that the agreement 
to be entered into pursuant to the Debt Purchase Offer in respect of which such 
Specific Purchase is to be made is in full force and effect; and (c) the acquisition 
of Specific Collateral unless: (i) the Borrower has furnished to the Association a 
certificate in form and substance satisfactory to the Association to the effect that 
the agreement to be entered into with respect to the exchange of Eligible Debt is in 
full force and effect; (ii) the Association shall have reviewed and approved the 
procedures for such withdrawals; and (iii) the Association shall have been satisfied, 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association, with the arrangements made for the 
maintenance of the Collateral.  Without limitation or restriction on the provisions of 
Section 5.03 of the General Conditions, if the Association shall so request in 
connection with one or more withdrawals from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of 
counsel acceptable to the Association as to such matters as the Association may 
reasonably request. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for a Specific Purchase or the acquisition of 
Specific Collateral, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. 
5.
Withdrawals from the Credit Account for a Specific Purchase may be made not 
earlier than five (5) business days prior to the closing date for the Purchase, 
provided that the proceeds of the Credit so withdrawn shall be maintained until paid 
Page  8
to the Closing Agent (as defined in the Financing Plan) for the benefit of 
Participating Lenders in a trust account with an independent trustee (or similar 
arrangement satisfactory to the Association affording legal protection of the funds) 
acceptable to the Association, which trust account shall provide for the automatic 
refund to the Association of such proceeds in the event the conditions precedent to 
the Purchase are not satisfied or the implementation of the Financing Plan does not 
for any reason proceed.   
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower’s Financing Plan. 
Subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives, the Project consists of the 
following parts:
Part A:
The acquisition of Collateral for the purpose of securing the payment of:  (1) 
principal and interest on the Discount Bonds; and (2) principal on the Par Bonds.
Part B: 
The Purchase of Eligible Debt by the Borrower pursuant to one or more agreements 
entered into pursuant to the Debt Purchase Offer.
SCHEDULE 3 
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Section 4.01.  Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made.  
Except 
as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be made in the respective 
currencies in which the payments 
to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit have been made or are to be made.”
(c)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except as the 
Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to the knowledge of 
the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.” 
(d)
Section 5.02 is deleted.
(e)
Section 5.03 is modified to read: 
“Section 5.03.  Applications for Withdrawal.  When the Borrower 
shall 
desire to withdraw any amount from the Credit Account, the 
Borrower shall 
deliver to the Association a written application in such 
form, and containing such 
statements and agreements, as the Association  shall reasonably request.”   
(f)
Section 5.08 is deleted.
(g)
Section 6.01 is modified to read: 
“Section 6.01.  Cancellation by the Borrower.  The Borrower may, 
by 
notice to the Association, cancel any amount of the Credit which the 
Borrower 
shall not have withdrawn.”
(h)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
Page  9
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any Purchase or acquisition of 
Collateral to be financed  out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary 
of the Credit with respect to such Purchase or acquisition of 
Collateral, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such Purchase or 
acquisition of Collateral 
which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) after the Closing  Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.”
(i)
Section 6.04 is deleted.
(j)
Sections 9.03, 9.04 and 9.05 are deleted.
(k)
Section 9.06 is modified to read:
“Section 9.06.  Records and Reports.  
(a)  The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures 
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Financing Plan 
(including 
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify 
the payments 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose 
their use in the 
Financing Plan; (ii) enable the Association’s 
representatives to examine the 
records and documents relevant to the 
performance of the obligations of the Borrower 
under the Development 
Credit Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Association at 
regular 
intervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably 
request concerning the Financing Plan, its cost and, where appropriate, 
the 
benefits to be derived from it, and the payments financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit. 
(b)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the 
carrying out of the 
Financing Plan, its cost and the benefits derived and 
to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”
(l)
Sections 9.07 and 9.08 are deleted.
