Report No. PID5058
Project Name                     Viet Nam-Debt and Debt Service Reduction (@).
Operation
Region                           East Asia & Pacific
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       VNPE39914
Borrower                        Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Implementing Agency              State Bank of Vietnam
Mr. Le Duc Thuy
Deputy Governor
47-49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi, Vietnam
Tel: (84-4) 255-769/(84-4) 252-831
Fax: (84-4) 258-385
Date PID Revised                 May, 1998
Appraisal                        N/A
Board Date                       June 10, 1997
Effective Date                   March 9, 1998
Closing Date                     June 30, 1998
Background
1.      One of the legacies of the pre-reform period is that Vietnam
is burdened with significant external debt. Official and commercial
hard-currency debt was accumulated mostly during the 1970s, and
failure to service it in the 1980s resulted in a substantial
accumulation of arrears. Arrears have also arisen on credit
obtained from the former Soviet Union and other former COMECON
countries.
2.      Since the early 1990's, the Government of Vietnam has made
substantial efforts to restructure its debt. The first step to
restore external creditworthiness was the successful negotiation of
a Paris Club restructuring in 1993. The second step was the
resolution of Vietnam's commercial debt in arrears. In May 1996,
the Government of Vietnam reached agreement in principle with its
London Club Creditors on the general financial terms of a Debt and
Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) operation that would settle all of
Vietnam's roughly US$850 million in outstanding private uninsured
commercial debt (including interest of US$517 million) in arrears.
A final term sheet was issued to all creditors on January 22, 1997.
Vietnam's Adjustment Program and External Debt Strategy
3.      Over the past decade, the Government of Vietnam has pursued
an economic reform program aimed at transforming its centrally
planned economy into a market-based one. Key elements of the
program include macroeconomic stabilization, opening the economy to



foreign trade and investment, reform of the state enterprise
sector, and improving incentives for private sector growth through
reform of the legal, regulatory and institutional framework. The
resolution of its large external debt overhang is also one element
of the reform program. This reform program has shown impressive
results. Inflation has been reined in, real growth has averaged
about 8 percent annually over the last five years, with dramatic
growth and diversification of exports. Vietnam has also succeeded
in attracting significant levels of foreign direct investment and
large commitments of official development assistance, both of which
are clear evidence of its reintegration into the world economy.
4.      During the past year, the Government has continued to
strengthen its stabilization efforts. Macroeconomic policies have
remained on track and developments broadly favorable. In 1996,
growth is estimated at 9.3 percent and annual inflation was less
than 5 percent. Nevertheless, there was a substantial widening of
the current account deficit to over 10 percent of GDP, due largely
to a substantial increase in capital goods associated with direct
foreign investment, and to a one-time effect arising from the
removal of import shipment licenses. The Government is closely
monitoring the evolution of the current account and is taking
measures to rein in consumer goods imports, stimulate exports, and
control external borrowing. Key stabilization objectives for 1997
include maintaining annual inflation at around 6 percent;
maintaining overall fiscal deficit around 1 percent of GDP and a
reduction in the current account deficit to 11 percent of GDP.
Proposed Operation
5.      The Government of Vietnam has requested IDA assistance in
financing a portion of the up-front costs of the DDSR operation.
These up-front costs are estimated to be in the range of US$50-60
million.
6.      The proposed credit amount would be about SDR 25.2 million
(approximately US$35 million equivalent). The Borrower would be the
Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The remaining financing for the up-
front costs of the DDSR Agreement would be provided from other
donors and/or the Government. The Government's reform program will
continue to be supported by the World Bank and the IMF. No
additional conditionalities are envisaged in this operation. The
credit was disbursed on effectiveness at the conclusion of the
DDSR Agreement in March.
Expected Benefits and Risks of the Operation
7.      The DDSR operation would have significant benefits for
Vietnam. It would deliver substantial debt relief and sustainable
debt service. Vietnam is in excellent position to benefit from a
reduction in its debt burden, as the economy's macroeconomic
performance has been strong. Furthermore, the successful conclusion
of the DDSR Agreement would remove an important impediment to
Vietnam's access to international capital markets, particularly to
trade credits and should facilitate the involvement of the private
- 2 -



sector in financing critical infrastructure priorities. It can
therefore be expected to enhance Vietnam's medium- and long-term
growth prospects.
8.      The DDSR Agreement per se does not pose significant risks for
Vietnam. The up-front costs of the Agreement and its associated
debt service obligations are well within Vietnam's foreign exchange
and budgetary constraints. The main risk is that Vietnam does not
obtain the expected benefits from the DDSR operation because of
slippages in macroeconomic policy or structural reforms or that the
public sector borrows excessively, damaging external
creditworthiness. These risks seem small, as the Government is
firmly committed to maintaining macroeconomic stability, sustaining
economic growth, and controlling external borrowing to ensure that
its hard-won gains in re-establishing external creditworthiness are
not lost.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 4, 1998.
- 3 -



