Report No. 1535a-IN                                                 FILE  COPY
India: Appraisal of the
Assam Agricultural Development Project
June 14, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                   Rupees (Rs)  9.00
Rs 1.00                   US$0.111
Rs I million   =          US$111,111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                      =    2.20 pounds
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton              =    0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                          =    1.09 yards - 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                     =    0.62 mile
1 hectare              2                   2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km ) = 100 ha   =    0.39 square mile
1 cubic meter                        =    35.39 cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AU         -      Assam Agricultural University
ACE        -      Additional Chief Engineer
ADA        -      Additional Director of Agriculture
AEO        -      Agricultural Extension Officer/s
APC        -      Agricultural Production Commissioner
ARDC       -      Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation
ASDAO      -      Additional Subdivisional Agricultural Officer/s
BDO        -      Block Development Officer/s
CD                Department of Community Development and
Panchayats
CAD        -      Command Area Development
DAO        -      District Agricultural Officer/s
DOA        -      Department of Agriculture
DOR        -      Director of Research (AAU)
FTS        -      Field Trials Station/s
GOA        -      Government of Assam
GOI        -      Government of India
GSTC       -      Gram Sevak (Village Level Worker) Training Center
HYV        -       High Yielding Variety/Varieties
ICAR       -      Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ID         -      Irrigation Department
IDA        -      International Development Agency
JDA        -      Joint Director of Agriculture
M          -       million



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-2-
PLMB       -      Primary Land Mortgage Bank
RBI        -      Reserve Bank of India
SDAO       -      Sub-divisional Agricultural Officer/s
SLMB       -      Assam State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank
SMS        -      Subject Matter Specialist/s
STW        -      Shallow tubewell/s
T&V        -      Training and Visits
VLW        -      Village Level Worker/s (in CD)
VLEW       -      Village Level Extension Worker/s (in DOA)
ASSAM RICE SEASONS
Ahu (pre monsoon)         -        April-June/July
Sali (monsoon)           -         June/July-November/December
Boro (rabi)               -        Jan/Feb-May
IThi docurnent hac a mricted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the perfomannce 
of their official dutie. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosd without World Bank authorization.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........ .  ................. ..... . . . . .    i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ............................................  ......1
II.    BACKGROUND    .................  ............ ......                  1 .....1
A.  Agriculture in Assam ...............            ..........        1
B.  Supporting Institutions ............ &.....                      3
C.  Strategy for Development .........................                7
III.   THE PROJECT ..........................................                 8
A.  General Description . ............................ .              8
B.  Detailed Features ..............              ... .......... ..  8
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .........................              14
A.  Cost Estimates ..................................................  14
B.  Proposed Financing ..          .............................    15
C.  Procurement ........................................            15
D.  Disbursements and Audit .................... .  .     .....     16
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..........................    17
VI.    FARMERS BENEFITS .....        ....................................  21
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION             ...........................   22
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                ...............    24
ANNEXES
1.   Present Agricultural Situation and Potential for Development
Table 1:  Assam:  Area and Population by District, 1971
Table 2:  Monthly Normal Rainfall (mm) and Temperatures (C)
for Representative Locations in Assam
Table 3:  Major Crops:  Production, Area and Yield
1965/66-1975/76
2.   Agricultural Extension and Training
Table 1: Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff
by Level and Sub-division



-2-
Table 2:  Requirements of Extension Staff by Year
Chart 1:  Extension Organization
Chart 2:  Linkages Between Extension & Research
Chart 3:  Evolution of Extension Recommendations and Field
Trials Program
Chart 4:   In-Service Training
3.   Agricultural Research
Attachment 1: Existing AAU Research Station
Attachment 2: Suggested Terms of Reference for AAU Research
Consultant
Attachment 3:  Suggested Terms of Reference for Chief Scientists
at Titabar and Shillongani
Table 1: Research Posts (Santioned and Vacant) with Budget
Allocations for Crop Research--AAU and Joint AAU/ICAR
Funding 1976-77
Table 2: Existing and Incremental Staffing of the Rice Research
Station, Titabar
Table 3:  Staffing of the Rice Research Station, Titabar, at
Full Development
Table 4:  Existing and Incremental Staffing of the Rice Research
Station, Karimganj
Table 5:  Staffing of the Rice Research Station, Karimganj, at
Full Development
Table 6:  Existing and Incremental Staffing of Jute, Oilseeds
and Pulses Research Station at Shillongani
Table 7:  Staffing of the Regional Research Center, Shillangani
(Jute, Oilseeds, and Pulses) at Full Development.
4.   Groundwater DevelopmenL-
Attachment 1: Observation Network, Pumping Tests and Mapping
Program
Attachment 2: Field Trails and Demonstrations of Alternative
Approaches
Table  1:  Irrigation Water Requirements
Table  2:  Groundwater Availability in Project Blocks
5.  MIonitoring and Evaluation
6.   Summary of Project Costs
7.   Extension Costs
Table 1:  Summary of Extension Costs
Table 2:  Civil Works
Table 3:  Equipment and Vehicles
Table 4:  Training Costs
Table 5:  Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentives
Table 6:  Incremental Operating Costs



-3-
8.   Research Costs
Table 1:  Summary of Research Costs
Table 2:  Rice Research Station, Titabar
Table 3:  Rice Research Station, Karimganj
Table 4:  Shillongani Regional Research Station:
Jute, Oilseeds, Pulses
Table 5:  Field Trials Station (9)
Table 6:  Field Trials Station (each)
Table 7:  Staffing (costs) for Field Trials Stations and, Field
Trials Cell at AAU
Table 8:  Field Trials Cell, AAU Jorhat
9.   Groundwater Development Costs
Table 1: Summary of Groundwater Development Costs
Table 2: Tubewells and Low Lift Pumps
Table 3: Support for Irrigation Departmet (including Napping,
Monitoring and Survey Programs)
Table 4: Technology Development
10.   Monitoring and Evaluation Costs
11.   Price Contingencies
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements and Implementation Schedules
Table 1:  Disbursement Schedule
Table 2;  Cumulative Schedule of Incremental Staff Appointments
Table 3:  Implementation Schedule - Buildings
Table 4:  Implementation Schedule
13.   Expected Yield Increases and Financial and Economic Analysis of
Investment in STW
Table 1:  Assumed Extension Packages and Yields (t/ha)
Table 2:  Hectare Crop Production Budgets (Model I)
Table 3:  Financial Benefits and Costs from Investment in STW
(Model I)
Table 4:  Financial Benefits and Costs Rainfed (Model I)
Table 5:  Farm Models, Cash Flows
Table 6:  Economic Analysis of Investment in STW
Table 7:  Cropping Patterns and Intensities:  Assumptions
14.   Economic Analysis of Extension and Research Component
Table 1: Economic Analysis
Table 2: Economic Price of Rice
Map:      Districts, Subdivisions, Research and Field Trials Stations,
and Project Groundwater Areas. IBRD 12626.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Assam with a total area of 78,000 km  and a population of 17 mil-
lion, is the largest State in the north-eastern region. The State can most
easily be described as that portion of the Brahmaputra valley which passes
through India. The valley, about 650 km long from east to west, and 50 to
100 Km wide from north to south, has been formed and remains dominated by the
Brahmaputra, one of the greatest of the world's rivers. The proposed project
is confined mainly to this valley and the smaller Barak valley, which together
contain 97% of Assam's population and grow 95% of its annual crops.
ii.       Production of foodgrains in Assam in the decade to 1974/75 failed to
keep pace with the increase in population. Yields are low, and for the most
part have remained stagnant. Yet potential for increasing foodgrain production
is considerable. Soils are alluvial and fertile; and the high rainfall is
generally well distributed, thus providing scope for substantially increasing
yields and cropping intensity on rainfed areas. Nevertheless irrigation,
though less critical in Assam than in the rest of India, is still important.
While scope for year round surface flow irrigation is limited, most of the
valley has groundwater available within a few meters of the surface, offer-
ing the possibility of an almost limitless source of water which could be
exploited at fairly low cost.
iii.      The project comprises two major components.  The first, the core of
the project, would involve reorganizing and strengthening the agricultural
extension service and developing and upgrading adaptive research, to achieve
early and sustained improvement in agricultural production, particularly
foodgrains. In the past, agricultural development strategy has been aimed
at achieving production increases through use of packages of practices which
assumed the availability of irrigation and required substantial expenditures
on costly purchased inputs such as fertilizer and pesticides. Such recommen-
dations were unsuitable for the majority of Assam's small farmers. The
reorganized extension service would focus first on recommendations to farmers
primarily involving more labor -- an asset most small farmers have in abund-
ance. Aside from generating high economic benefits, the extension and
research components of the project would, therefore, have a considerable
beneficial impact on marginal and small farmers, now living close to the
poverty line. This would be the fourth IDA-supported agricultural extension
and research project in India.



- ii -
iv.       The second component would lay the base for longer term improve-
ments in groundwater development by strengthening the Irrigation Department's
(ID) capacity to plan, administer and supervise programs for exploitation
of Assam's vast groundwater resources. It would include components for
groundwater surveys and monitoring, and technology development to find
alternative low cost approaches to groundwater development. Efforts to
strengthen ID would be focussed through a program of shallow tubewell (STW)
installation. This program would be complementary to but not part of the
proposed project (para v).
v.        Total project costs are estimated at Rs 147.6 M (US$16.4 M).  The
proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms, and would
finance about 50% of project costs, net of duties and taxes. This would cover
foreign exchange costs of US$1.4 M and about 44% of local costs. The balance
of project financing (US$8.4 M) would come from GOA/GOI. The project would,
through strengthening the Irrigation Department, also facilitate implementa-
tion of a complementary groundwater development program. This program would
be carried out under the IDA-supported ARDC line of credit and is expected to
cost US$15.6 M. Finance would come from farmers (US$1.1 M) and commercial and
cooperative banks (US$14.5 M).
vi.       The main items to be financed are:  civil works, vehicles, equip-
ment and incremental staff costs. There would be no international competitive
bidding. Civil works contracts (US$5.1 M) would be small and widely dispersed,
both geographically and over time; and would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding. About 135 motor vehicles of various types (US$1.0 M)
would be required under the project and would be purchased in small quantities
over four years. They would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate
maintenance and availability of spares would be of paramount importance, this
would necessitate purchase of Locally made vehicles of types already widely
used by Government Departments. Procurement would be by local competitive
bidding. Motorcycles and cycles (US$0.3 M) would be purchased by individual
staff according to their preference with loans made available on suitable terms
by GOA. Scientific equipment for research stations (US$0.2 M) and orders for
purchase of minor equipment and furniture (US$0.6 M) would be bulked wherever
possible and purchased following local competitive bidding procedures, except
where orders are valued at less than US$50,000, when they would be purchased by
prudent shopping through normal trade channels. Employment of consultants
(US$0.1 M) would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The balance
of project costs (US$9.1 M) would consist of staff training (US$1.3 M),
incremental staff salaries and traveling allowances (US$3.5 M), and operating
costs (US$4.3 M).
vii.       Responsibility for implementation of the reorganized extension pro-
gram, the program of adaptive trials, and the groundwater program would be
with the Agricultural Production Commissioner (APC), through the Secretaries
of the Departments of Agriculture and Irrigation. Responsibility for research
at the commodity-oriented research stations would be with the Director of



- iii -
Research, Assam Agricultural University (AAU). The APC would be assisted by
a full time project manager at Deputy Secretary level or above. Development
agencies outside the Departments of Agriculture and Irrigation and AAU, in
particular the lending banks and ARDC, would be coordinated through regular
meetings at State and district level. This would be achieved by establishment
of coordinating committees at state and district levels.
viii.     A Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary or
APC, would be set up by November 30, 1977, and would meet at least twice a
year. It would ensure cooperation between various Government organizations,
AAU and the banks and, in particular, that problems of credit, marketing and
input supplies are given due attention.
ix.       Experience in the Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Command Area Develop-
ment Projects indicates that after two years, more than 50% of farm families
followed some or most of the extension recommendations. Based on this assump-
tion, the project could directly benefit about 200,000 contact farmers and
more than 1 M of Assam's 1.9 M farm families within the project period.
Ultimately most of Assam's farmers are expected to benefit. The groundwater
development program, including the technology development program would lay
the base for future development of a larger scale groundwater program, in
particular bringing irrigation within the means of even the smallest
farmers.
x.        The cost of extension and research over the five-year project de-
velopment period amounts to about US$12 per benefitting farm family (assuming
only 1 M farm families benefit). Incremental costs to be met from GOA budget
sources, following project completion, would be about US$1.5 M per annum, or
about US$1.5 per benefitting farm family per annum. This additional require-
ment compares with GOA present budgetary allocation to agriculture of about
US$48 M equivalent annually and would be met without difficulty.
xi.       The principal economic benefit of the project would be an increase
in agricultural production, principally foodgrains. Attributing a precise
level of benefits to this type of project, however, is difficult since the
expected benefits of improved agricultural practices, which also require addi-
tional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to extension and research. More-
over, there is not enough experience in Assam to estimate acceptance rates
with any degree of accuracy. However, there is no doubt that the substantial
improvement in the efficiency of utilization of existing resources, which would
be brought about by the project, would generate a high rate of return. It is
reasonable to expect that by year 7 yields of rice would increase by about
20 kg/ha statewide, or by less than 2% over the "without project" situation.
Given such increases, the economic rate of return would be 50%. Experience
with reorganized extension services in other States of India suggests that
there would be little risk that yields would not increase by an average of at
least 20 kg/ha as a result of the project. The high rate of return should,
however, be treated with caution since, as improved agricultural practices
spread, further investments in infrastructure and services would become
necessary.
xii.      The project is considered suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.0 M
to GOI.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Eastern Region of India, comprising the States of Assam, Bihar,
Orissa, West Bengal and eastern Uttar Pradesh, is the country's major rice
growing area. Most of the region has moderate to heavy monsoon rains and
large areas of relatively fertile alluvial soils, and there is a vast, mainly
unexploited, surface and ground water resource. Yet foodgrain yields are gen-
erally lower than elsewhere in India and production has barely kept pace with
population growth. Rural institutions are generally weak, and most indicators
of social and economic development are lower than for the rest of India. Dur-
ing discussions between GOI and the Bank in New Delhi in November, 1974, it
was agreed to give special emphasis to the development of agricultural pro-
jects in the Eastern Region States aimed to achieve quick increases in food-
grain production while paying particular attention to problems faced by small
farmers. This led to a State by State review of agriculture in the Eastern
States including one in Assam in March 1976. The proposed project is the
third identified in line with this new direction of Bank Group agriculture
operations in India, following the Orissa Agricultural Development Project
(Cr 682-IN) and the West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr 690-IN) and is the fourth IDA-supported agricultural extension and
research project in India.  It was prepared by Government of Assam (GOA)
assisted by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, Bank staff and consultants.
1.02      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a Mission which
visited Assam in November 1976, comprising Messrs. N. Krafft, S. Allison,
J. Borthwick and J. Harrison (IDA), D. Mohanakrishnan (ARDC), and Mr. F.
Haworth (Consultant). The Mission was assisted full-time by Mr. S. Hocombe
(FAO/CP), who also contributed to the report, and part-time by Messrs. S.
Baker, and U. Hpu and Ms. M. Nguyen (IDA).
II. BACKGROUND
A.  Agriculture in Assam
2.01      Assam, with a total area of 78,000 km  and a population of 17 mil-
lion, is the largest State of the north eastern region, an isolated group of
five States and two union territories bounded by Bhutan and Tibet/China to the
North, Burma to the east and Bangladesh to the South. Assam can most easily
be described as that portion of the Brahmaputra valley which passes through
India. The valley, about 650 Km long from east to west, and 50 to 100 Km wide
from north to south, has been formed and remains dominated by the Brahmaputra,
one of the greatest of the world's rivers. Each year, with the melting of
the snows from the Himalayas and the torrential monsoon rains (usually over



2000 mm) the river swells to ten times its normal winter flow.  Repeated year
after year, this process has built up the valley floor with layers of sand,  2
silt and gravel until there are now rich alluvial deposits covering 50,000 Km
Separated from the Brahmaputra valley by the Mikir and North Cachar hills is
the smaller Southern Barak valley (Cachar district). This project is confined
mainly to these two broad alluvial valleys, which comprise the 8 administrative
plains districts of Assam, contain 97% of its population and grow 95% of its
annual crops.
Land Tenure and Distribution
2.02      Many of the problems of raising agricultural productivity in Assam
stem from the large number of small and fragmented farms. Apart from the tea
estates, there are virtually no large holdings in Assam. Average farm size
is 1.5 ha with over 90% of holdings less than 3 ha and nearly 60% less than
1 ha. Sharecropping and tenancy arrangements are still widespread despite
land tenure legislation. Many of the owners of these small farms are poor
and unable to afford expensive inputs or major investments, such as tubewells
on an individual basis. The proposed project would help tackle problems faced
by these small farmers by providing them, through the extension service, with
suitable low cost technology to increase yields and cash income (Para 2.15).
Agriculture (Annex 1)
2.03      The economy of Assam is heavily dependent on agriculture.  In 1971,
the agricultural sector contribu,ted over 57% of total State income and pro-
vided employment for nearly 77% of the total working force. In the plains
districts, 2.2 M ha are cultivated with a cropping intensity of about 120%
giving a total cropped area of 2.7 M ha. Rice is the predominant foodgrain
and accounts for about 80% of total cropped area and over 90% of the area
under foodgrains. The most important commercial crops are tea, oilseeds,
jute, and sugarcane, with Assam producing a little over half of India's total
production of tea mainly from hill districts outside the project area. Pro-
duction of foodgrains in the decade to 1974/75 increased at about 1.7% p.a.
failing to keep pace with the increase in population. The little increase in
foodgrain production that has taken place, resulted mainly from increases in
cropped area. Agricultural yields have remained stagnant. Cultural practices
are still largely traditional and few farmers have any experience in using
modern inputs. Average fertilizer use (excluding that for tea) is less than
3 Kg of nutrient per ha; only about 10% of rice is under HYV or improved local
varieties; and most farmers still rely on traditional farm implements.
2.04      Potential.  In contrast to past performance, potential for increasing
foodgrain production is considerable. Soils are alluvial and fertile; and
the high rainfall is generally well distributed, occurring during a 7-month
monsoon season, providing scope for substantially increasing yields on rain-
fed areas. Because of humid and relatively cool conditions in the remaining
5 months, it is generally possible to grow a second rainfed crop on residual
moisture, albeit with low yields. However, in some areas the dry months are
often too dry to sustain reliable crop growth without supplemental water.
Even during the monsoon, but particularly at the beginning and end, there



-3-
are dry spells of sufficient length to limit crop growth. Thus, irrigation,
though less critical in Assam than in the rest of India, is also important to
realizing full agricultural potential. While scope for year-round surface
flow irrigation is limited, most of the valley has groundwater available with-
in a few meters of the surface (para 2.09 and Annex 4). This great reservoir
offers the possibility of an almost limitless source of water which could be
exploited at fairly low cost. The strategy for future development is dis-
cussed in paras 2.15 - 2.17.
Constraints to Development
2.05      The reasons for the gap between performance and potential are
two-fold: technical and institutional. The main technical problems arise
from Assam's high rainfall. Up to 15% of the cultivated area may be inundated
by the Brahmaputra River in the monsoon season and, even in flood free areas,
the high rainfall causes problems of drainage, discouraging use of fertilizers
and restricting access to fields. It also creates difficulties for drying and
storing early-planted crops which mature at the height of the monsoon. The
variability in rainfall at both ends of the monsoon are a further disincentive
to use of purchased inputs. These natural constraints, while important, are
not sufficient to explain Assam's low agricultural productivity. As discussed
below, the most severe constraints to development are to be found in the
weaknesses of institutions serving agriculture.
B. Supporting Institutions
Agricultural Extension
2.06      The Director of Agriculture, working under the Agricultural Produc-
tion Commissioner, is responsible for agricultural extension and is assisted
by an Additional Director of Agriculture (General), a number of Joint and
Deputy Directors, and Agricultural Officers at the district and subdivisional
level. Responsibility for field level extension activities is, however, di-
vided between the Department of Community Development and Panchayats, through
the Block Development Officer (BDO) 1/, and the Department of Agriculture,
through the Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO). The AEO is meant to guide
and supervise the work of about 10 multi-purpose Village Level Workers (VLW)
per block but has no administrative control over them. As a result the VLW,
who is directly responsible to the BDO in Community Development, spends only
a fraction of his time on agriculture and much of this on non-productive re-
port writing and regulatory work. The Department of Agriculture, finding it
difficult, therefore, to implement agricultural programs using these multi-
purpose workers came increasingly to rely on departmental staff appointed for
1/   Assam has 8 plains' administrative districts (9 agricultural) each
headed by a Deputy Commissioner; 20 administrative subdivisions
(21 agricultural); and 120 Development Blocks, the local rural
administrative unit headed by a BDO. BDO is directly responsible
to the Deputy Commissioner for development programs of the different
State departments (animal husbandry, public health, education, etc.).



-4-
"special schemes". Special schemes, however, have only served to weaken the
effects of extension staff still further, dissipating efforts and obscuring
the need for fundamental reform. This has all resulted in few farm level
contacts and low impact on yields, particularly of small farmers.
2.07      Training of Agricultural Staff:  AEO are generally direct recruits
from colleges who have received minimal in-service training. VLW are gen-
erally secondary school graduates, recruited after a two years' pre-service
course given at one of the Department of Agriculture's two Gramsevak Training
Centers. There is limited in-service training for VLW and many older AEO and
VLW received their basic training before many of the recent technological
advances.
Agricultural Research
2.08      Until 1973, the main responsibility for agricultural research rested
with the Department of Agriculture. Responsibility for both fundamental and
applied research has since been transferred to Assam Agricultural University
(AAU), a young institution with a weak but developing research program, estab-
lished under the AAU Act of 1968. The IDA-financed First Education Project
(Credit 342-IN) is assisting AAU's institutional development through building
up AAU's teaching capability and physical facilities at its two main campuses
(Jorhat and Khanapara). Now that these campuses are becoming fully opera-
tional and more staff are returning from training fellowships provided under
the Credit, AAU is in a position to focus on strengthening its research
capability both at its central and regional research stations. Research has
largely concentrated on producing recommendations for irrigated rabi crops,
using HYV and high levels of fertilizer application. Insufficient attention
has been paid to kharif rainfed crops and to providing small farmers with
recommendations as to how they might significantly increase yields with little
or no purchased inputs. Centrally sponsored Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR) schemes, whilst responsible for the major research impact, are
more oriented to national requirements than to State and regional needs. AAU
staff have normally devoted most of their time to teaching, resulting in
insufficient attention on research. Moreover, many sanctioned research posts
remain vacant due to shortage of adequately trained staff (Annex 3, Table 1).
These shortages, combined with poor physical facilities on the commodity-
oriented research stations and sub-stations have seriously hindered development
of an effective research effort. Finally, there is a lack of research staff
and facilities to test, evaluate and adapt improved agronomic practices in the
different agroclimatic regions of the State.
Irrigation
2.09      Groundwater.  Exploitation of Assam's groundwater resources has
been insignificant -- with only about 30 deep wells and 1,400 shallow tube-
wells (STW) in the State, irrigating less than 5,000 ha. There are several
reasons for this. Until recently, the main focus of the Irrigation Department,
responsible for both groundwater and surface irrigation development, has been
on flood protection. The Department's capacity to plan, supervise and monitor
groundwater development is limited and there has been an almost total lack of



- 5 -
coordination between implementing agencies (Irrigation and Agriculture Depart-
ments, equipment suppliers, well drillers, and, in particular, credit institu-
tions). In addition, since the orthodox STW irrigates 3-5 ha, it is most
suited to larger farms (about 40% of the land), thus bypassing the majority
of farmers in Assam. And water sharing, which would overcome this problem, is
generally difficult to achieve in practice. Future development strategy is
discussed in para 2.16.
2.10      Surface Irrigation.  The Irrigation Department's past emphasis on
flood protection combined with limited opportunities for water storage and
diversion, has also restricted development of surface irrigation. Less than
150,000 ha are presently irrigated and even in these areas yields are low.
Existing surface irrigation schemes have not achieved anticipated benefits
due mainly to inadequate development of infrastructure (field channels and
drains) below major outlets. GOA has limited experience in Command Area
Development (CAD), and the necessary legislation to enable GOA to implement
any large-scale CAD program and to recover costs has yet to be passed. GOA
are currently undertaking two pilot projects to gain practical experience of
CAD. Future investment in surface irrigation is discussed in para 2.17.
Agricultural Credit, Inputs and Marketing
2.11      Credit.  Institutional credit for agriculture is provided by coop-
erative credit institutions and commercial banks. The cooperative credit
structure has two wings: the Assam Cooperative Apex Bank providing short
and medium term credit, and the Assam State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank,
long term credit. Until recently, short and medium term credit was provided
to farmers through about 3,000 primary agricultural credit societies. By
1972, however, overdues of the Apex Bank reached 71% and those of the primary
credit societies, 81%. Moreover, three-quarters of these societies were dor-
mant. As a result, in 1972, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) prepared a master
plan to restructure cooperative credit in the State. Following the RBI plan,
GOA replaced the largely defunct primary credit societies with about 660 multi-
purpose cooperatives; but most have yet to make a significant impact in terms
of either credit or input supplies. Fortunately, GOA is now acutely aware of
problems in the cooperative credit system and it has taken several significant
steps to overcome them. However, several RBI recommendations have still to be
implemented and lending to farmers remains small, while past overdues remain
high. Rehabilitation of the cooperative credit system which will require firm
Government support for collection of overdues, upgrading managerial capabili-
ties, streamlining operational procedures and rationalization of the credit
institutions will be lengthy and it is important that efforts start now (para
5.09). Since the project would rely mainly on improved cultural practices at
the start, which would generate a gradual build up in demand for credit, short-
term credit is unlikely to be a constraint in early years.
2.12      Some 19 commercial banks, providing both short and long term cre-
dit, operate in Assam -- with 270 branches, about 230 rural, the remainder
urban. Again, lending has been low and outstanding loans for agricultural
purposes amounted to Rs 24 M in June 1976. Recovery of overdues has also
been small. Recovery performance has improved, however, with the recent



-6-
implementation of that part of the Talwar Committee 1/ recommendations dealing
with recovery of loans. In view of the weakness of the cooperative credit
structure, commercial banks will have to be relied upon to meet most credit
required for groundwater development. These institutions would be able to meet
this demand and this is evidenced by the marked success ARDC has had in for-
mulating and sanctioning schemes for STW, in response to recent emphasis given
to groundwater development (para 2.16). Since March 1976, ARDC has formulated
six schemes for 5,500 STW; four have been sanctioned and refinance of Rs 340,000
disbursed by ARDC to commercial banks.
2.13      Fertilizer, Seeds and Pesticides.  Average fertilizer use at about
3 Kg/ha of nutrients is well below the all-India average of about 16 Kg/ha.
Distribution is through the Assam Agro-Industries Development Corporation
(AAIDC), the Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI), the recently established
network of multi-purpose cooperatives, and a network of private dealers.
Storage capacity is adequate and any expansion would be constructed through
finance provided under State or Centrally-sponsored schemes. Sales of cer-
tified seed are also low, less than 4,000 tons in 1974/75, but future avail-
ability presents no foreseeable problems with the recent rationalization and
proposed expansion of the seed industry under the Bank-assisted National Seed
Project (1273-IN). A major constraint to wider use of pesticides relates to
the weakness of the extension services. Provision of plant protection spe-
cialists under the project (para 3.05) should help remedy this. While there
should be no major problems meeting the low level of input requirements in the
short run, problems could arise in the longer run requiring a strengthening of
the distribution system. Experience in other States, and in Nowgong subdivi-
sion in Assam where the new extension approach was introduced over a year ago,
indicates that supply institutions respond quickly to demand generated through
the extension service, and that the increased demand when translated into
higher turnover, itself helps supply agencies become more commercially viable.
2.14      Marketing and Procurement.  Agricultural production and marketing
in the past has been dominated by rice and jute; by 1975/76, however, wheat
had gained importance. The Assam State Cooperative Consumer and Marketing
Federation and the Food Corporation of India are charged with procurement of
grain. In 1972, GOA passed the Assam Agricultural Produce Marketing Act
enabling setting up of regulated markets and ARDC is associated with devel-
opment of four such markets. The outcome of this pilot operation would
provide guidelines for future market development. While there are no overall
marketing or storage problems, the situation will have to be carefully moni-
tored as production increases so that additional capacity is provided in a
timely manner.
1/   In September 1969, the Governor of the RBI appointed an Expert Group
to review legislation impinging upon commercial bank lending for agri-
culture. The final report, issued in 1971, is known as the Talwar
report.



-7-
C. Strategy for Development
2.15      In proposing a strategy for increasing foodgrains production, prior-
ity is given to measures which can have a quick impact on the production and
incomes of small farmers who comprise most of the rural population. Since the
overwhelming proportion of farmers in the plains districts are wholly dependent
on rainfall, the emphasis in the short-term must be on improving yields under
rainfed conditions. Moreover, since most small farmers have little or no
experience of modern inputs, early efforts to increase yields will have to
be placed on raising yields largely through better cultural practices such as
seed treatment, timely sowing, optimal plant populations and weeding. The
main priority for increasing agricultural production thus lies in closing the
gap between the present practices of the majority of farmers and existing
technology, demonstrated by the best farmers, by transferring to them the
knowhow of already proven but simple improvements and making better use of
existing inputs and water. This requires a quick and efficient mechanism
for transferring technical knowledge and can largely be achieved by improve-
ments to present agricultural extension methods. However, such improvements
need to be backed by an effective and responsive adaptive research program as
a successful extension service will generate demand for more sophisticated
advice. The gap between existing technology and typical farm practices is
currently so wide that present knowledge will suffice for the next two to
three years, particularly if backed by a program of field trials to adapt
present knowledge to each locality. Additional research is, however, needed
to bring new technologies forward after that time.
2.16      In the longer term there is a need to expand the area under irriga-
tion. The Bank's agricultural sector mission placed emphasis on implemen-
tation of a small first phase program of STW installation. Implementation of
this program has started. To ensure that this is effectively carried out, and
thus lays the framework for possible much larger expansion of the area under
irrigation in the future, the present strategy provides for strengthening of
institutions involved in groundwater development, while carefully monitoring
benefits of such investment. At the same time, it is essential to develop a
technology suitable for small farmers by providing either smaller or cheaper
tubewells and pumps.
2.17      The proposed project would adopt the above strategy.  It does not
attempt to tackle the longer term problems of the input supply institutions,
which are not seen as a constraint to implementation of the proposed project
over 5 years. Regarding surface irrigation, before undertaking any major
investment it would first be necessary to ensure better utilization of water
from existing irrigation schemes. This would be based on experience to be
gained from the two pilot CAD schemes currently being implemented. It will
also be necessary to complete a detailed survey of the surface irrigation and
drainage potential which should lead to a pipeline of projects, each with an
acceptable economic rate of return and high development priority. This survey
could be undertaken by the Irrigation Department, in consultation with the
Central Water Commission. During negotiations, GOA stated that it hoped to
be able to prepare such projects for inclusion into the Sixth Five-Year Plan.



- 8 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project comprises two major components.  The first, the core
of the project, would involve reorganizing and strengthening the agricultural
extension service and developing and upgrading adaptive research in the plains
districts of Assam, to achieve early and sustained improvement in agricultural
production, particularly foodgrains. The second, would lay the base for longer
term improvements in groundwater development by strengthening the Irrigation
Department and would include a component for technology development to find
alternative low-cost approaches to groundwater development, suitable for small
farmers. This would be the fourth IDA-supported agricultural extension and
research project in India.
3.02      The five-year project would comprise:
(a) Reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension
services: provision of additional staff, housing, offices,
equipment, transportation, and staff training to complete
by June 30, 1980, the reorganization of the extension ser-
vice started in 1976.
(b) Development and strengthening of adaptive research: establish-
ment of about nine field trials stations by the Department of
Agriculture, and development and upgrading of two commodity-
oriented research stations and one sub-station of AAU, by:
farm development, provision of staff and staff training,
laboratory facilities, housing, hostel accomodation, equip-
ment, vehicles, and about 12 man-months of consultancy services.
(c) Groundwater development: provision of staff and staff training,
vehicles and equipment to strengthen the Irrigation Department
and enable it to: (i) oversee a program of STW installation, which
would be financed by long-term credit operations; (ii) carry out a
program of groundwater surveys and monitoring, and (iii) install,
test and demonstrate alternative, low-cost approaches to ground-
water development.
(d) Project monitoring and evaluation: Provision of staff, equip-
ment and funds for studies to monitor project progress and
evaluate its impact.
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Extension (Annex 2)
3.03      The Extension Methodology:  The project would complete the reor-
ganization and intensification of agricultural extension started in one



- 9 -
district of Assam in 1976. This would be confined to the plains districts
of Assam. The introduction of the proposed extension system would be phased
over three years district by district and would be completed by June 30, 1980.
The objective would be to provide farmers on a regular and systematic basis
with up-to-date advice on farming practices capable of having an immediate
impact on yields. The primary instrument to bring about this change would be
full-time village level agricultural extension workers (Para 3.04). Each of
these extension workers (VLEW) would cover some 600 to 1000 farm families,
divided into 8 smaller groups of about 100 families, the number varying
according to population density and communication network. Each group would
be visited by its VLEW on a fixed day of the week, once every two weeks. Each
VLEW wou'ld work primarily with about ten contact farmers selected from each
group. Other farmers in the group would be encouraged to join the VLEW in his
field visits and discussion sessions. The message communicated to farmers
would be simple, concentrating on the most important crops of their locality
and initially on improved cultural practices of relevance to current and up-
coming farm operations. The VLEW and AEO would receive the extension message
at training sessions held one day in the two-week period by Subject Matter
Specialists. These messages would be prepared by district technical commit-
tees (para 5.05). During the following week, VLEW would meet with their
immediate supervisor, the AEO, to discuss problems encountered in the field.
On the two days remaining in the two-week period (one rest day a week), the
VLEW would participate in demonstrations, field trials and administrative
work.
3.04      The crux of the reorganized extension program would be a direct line
of command from the Director of Agriculture through to VLEW. This would be
achieved by transferring 80% of the multipurpose village level workers (VLW)
from the Department of Community Development and Panchayats to the Department
of Agriculture (DOA), incorporating staff from "special schemes"? and redeploy-
ing some administrative and regulatory staff. This would provide 1660 VLEW.
Under the project, an additional 780 VLEW would be recruited over a three-year
period, providing 2440 VLEW to cover Assam's nearly 2 million farm families
(average ratio of 1:800). Some 305 AEO, already part of the Department of
Agriculture, would supervise and support the VLEW (ratio 1:8) and they, in
turn, would be responsible to the Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (Para
3.05). GOA has issued an order setting out details of its program for (i)
transfer of 80% of VLW (about 960 VLW) from Community Development to the
Department of Agriculture and (ii) reassignment of present staff from special
schemes.   When the transfer is completed, each block would be left with a
small field staff, usually one AEO and two VLW to cover non-agricultural tasks
and to ensure the timely flow of credit and inputs.
3.05      Technical Support:  A number of Assam's subdivisions are too large
to allow for effective supervision, training and control of field staff. Six
of the existing 21 agricultural subdivisions would, therefore, be divided,
thus creating 27 subdivisions. Each would be headed by a Subdivisional
Agricultural Officer (SDAO). In cases where one SDAO would supervise more
than 8 AEO, an Additional SDAO (ASDAO) would also be appointed. To strengthen
technical backup, the project provides for two subject matter specialists
(SMS) at each subdivision, one each in agronomy and plant protection. In



- 10 -
subdivisions in which the shallow tubewell program is being implemented
(para 3.12) an additional SMS (water management) would be provided. At dis-
trict level, the project provides for three senior SMS, one in information
and training and two to give technical support in such matters as agronomy,
water management, farm implements, entomology and pathology. Specialists
would spend their time about equally between field visits including checks
on lower level staff; visiting nearby adaptive field trial stations (para 3.08
ff); and training. Provision under the project has also been made for other
supervisory and supporting staff (Annex 7, Table 5) including a team of four
SMS to be located at headquarters (para 5.02) and strengthening of adminis-
trative and accounting staff in DOA. Staff would be appointed in accordance
with the schedule in Annex 12, Table 2. Based on experience in other states,
extension staff would work harder than at present; provision has, therefore,
been made for advanced increments in salary to be awarded to about 25% of VLEW
and other selected staff.
3.06      Training:  Fortnightly training of VLEW by SMS with assistance of
AEO would be a major feature of the extension system. AEO would be trained
for one day each month by subdivisional staff, backed up by staff from the
district and field trial stations (para 3.08 ff). Limited equipment and
extension aids would be required for staff training and these would be included
in the project. At the start of the project new staff would have to be trained
and others upgraded. The project provides for pre-service training fellowships
for SMS, inservice and short-term training, and scholarships for advancement
training for a few staff. It also provides for incremental staff at the two
existing training centers to enable them cope with the increased enrollment.
3.07      Housing, Offices and Transportation:  The proposed extension metho-
logy is based on regular and frequent farm visits by extension staff. It is
essential, therefore, that field level staff and their supervisors live near
their work and that they are sufficiently mobile to enable them to function
effectively. At present, housing available for rent in rural areas is lim-
ited and extension workers rely on public transport, thus spending much of
their time traveling. Assurances were given that GOA would ensure that
field level staff would live in the area assigned for their operations and,
for this purpose, GOA would provide such low-cost housing as necessary. The
project provides for renovation of existing housing that is suitably located,
and construction of low cost housing so that, at full development, housing
would be provided for about 60% of VLEW and 50% of AEO and subdivisional
staff. Designs for such housing have been reviewed by IDA and are satisfac-
tory. The remainder have satisfactory housing available. The project would
finance construction of subdivisional offices in the six subdivisions created
under the project, their equipment and furniture. Selection of sites for
housing and offices has not, as yet, been completed; assurances were given
that by March 31, 1978, or such later date as may be agreed by the Associa-
tion, GOA would complete a survey to locate such sites. The project also pro-
vides for additional equipment and vehicles at headquarters, subdivisional,
and district levels, including motorcycles for AEO and bicycles for VLEW.
Credit would be provided to staff by GOA to enable them to purchase motor-
cycles and cycles. GOA is presently reviewing traveling allowances, credit



- 11 -
limits, and terms and conditions of loans. Assurances were given that GOA
would (i) provide credit to staff for purchase of motorcycles and bicycles on
such terms and conditions that would create incentive for the purchase of such
transport, and (ii) provide such financial incentive as is required to ensure
optimum use of such transport. Provision has been made in project costs for
operating costs of incremental departmental vehicles and incremental staff
traveling allowances.
Adaptive Research and Trials (Annex 3)
3.08      Under the project, adaptive research facilities would be set up or
strengthened to provide the extension service with simple and relevant tech-
nological messages suitably adapted to locality, size of farm, and ability
of the farmer to invest and take risks. To achieve this, a network of nine
field trials (and training) stations (FTS) would be established under the
Department of Agriculture. To ensure the flow of technical innovations to
the farmer in the longer run, these would need to be supported by an expanded
capability for production-oriented crop research. The project would also
strengthen two of AAU's commodity-oriented research stations and one sub-
station -- located at Titabar and Karimganj (for work on rice) and at
Shillangani (for work on jute, oilseeds, pulses and wheat). The project also
provides for establishment of a small cell of DOA specialists stationed at
AAU to oversee work on FTS (Para 5.03).
3.09      The commodity-oriented research program of AAU would seek to
identify and select improved varieties of the most important crops obtained
from national and international research institutions, with a package of eco-
nomically significant practices directed to substantially increasing crop
production and at the same time minimize farmers risk. Selected varieties
and production packages would be forwarded to FTS for further testing in each
of the different agroecological zones, concentrating initially on rice, jute
and wheat. At FTS, the most promising practices and varieties would be iden-
tified and recommendations prepared for the extension service. FTS staff
would work closely with a district extension team, in particular SMS, and much
of the work at FTS would be done in response to needs of the local extension
staff and farmers. FTS would thus be the focal point for testing and intro-
duction of new practices and would also be used for training of extension
staff.
3.10      The project would provide for civil works, including the construction
of laboratory, farm and office buildings, staff housing and station develop-
ment as required (drainage, water and electricity supplies, fencing, roads).
Four sites chosen for establishment of FTS have modest dormitory and training
facilities; these would be improved where necessary and new units constructed
on the remaining FTS stations to facilitate staff and farmer training. The
project would also finance laboratory, farm and office equipment, limited
office and laboratory furniture and about 17 vehicles. Incremental salaries,
allowances and other operating costs amounting to 34% of total research costs
(58% for FTS and 17% for MAU stations) would also be financed as part of the
project.



- 12 -
3.11      Staffing, Training and Consultancy Services:  At full development,
professional staff at the commodity-oriented stations of AMU would be in-
creased from 58 to 73. Some posts already sanctioned for these stations are
vacant. If a post to be provided under the project is in the same discipline
as an already sanctioned but vacant post, the vacant post would be filled
first in accordance with the schedule in Annex 12, Table 2. Each FTS would be
staffed with three research officers under an agronomist and comprising an
entomologist, a plant pathologist, and either a farm management specialist or
soil scientist, as appropriate. The project would, therefore, provide 40 new
professional staff for the nine FTS and the four person cell. Support staff
would also be provided. Staff would be appointed in accordance with the
schedule in Annex 12, Table 2. To provide intensive training in relevant
research the project would provide for: fellowships for staff of the FTS and
adaptive trials cell of 2-3 months, 18 fellowships to train staff for sanc-
tioned but currently vacant posts at AAU, and 10 fellowships for new AAU posts
created under the project. The project would also provide for about 12
man-months of local consultancy services (para 5.04).
Groundwater Development (Annex 4)
3.12      Complementary Development.  Efforts to strengthen the Irrigation
Department's (ID) capacity to plan, administer and supervise programs for
exploitation of Assam's vast groundwater resource would be focussed through
a program of STW installation. This program, which has already started, would
comprise installation of about: 15,000 pumpsets, each irrigating 3-5 ha, and
would be complementary to but not part of the proposed project (para 4.03).
About 12,500 pumpsets would be mounted on low cost shallow tubewells; the
remainder would pump directly from surface water sources (streams and ponds).
To concentrate administrative resources, the program would be confined to
three areas, comprising 20 development blocks in the central and western
parts of the Brahmaputra valley (Map 12626), and would be phased over four
years.
3.13      To ensure that this program is carried out effectively, the project
provides for strengthening of ID, to enable it to supervise: supply, installa-
tion and maintenance of pumpsets. The project would provide for limited low
level staff, training for incremental and existing staff, vehicles for super-
visory staff, about 50 bicycles for mechanics, and survey and drawing equipment.
It would also provide four tractors with trailors to transport well drilling
equipment, downwell components, and pumpsets between sites. Staff would also
be appointed to help farmers process and submit applications and necessary
supporting documentation and to advise farmers on engineering aspects of
efficient on-farm water utilization, such as land levelling and field channel
construction. Staff would be appointed in accordance with the Schedule in
Annex 12, Table 2.
3.14      Groundwater Surveys and Monitoring.  Because the proposed comple-
mentary groundwater program is small, risk of interference between wells would
be negligible. As groundwater development increases so would groundwater
extraction. To ensure orderly development and to avoid over-exploitation in
the long run, the project would include a three-year program of groundwater



- 13 -
surveys and monitoring to strengthen both GOA's information base for planning
future projects and its capacity to monitor the hydrologic effects of ground-
water development. To achieve this, the project would include: (a) instal-
lation of 220 small bore observation wells on a 16 km square grid covering
virtually the entire Brahmaputra Valley, to permit clearer definition of
aquifer materials and observation of fluctuations in the water table; (b)
execution of a series of pumping tests on existing deep wells and new shallow
wells, to provide more accurate estimates of yield and transmissibility, and
(c) a mapping program, in the 20 selected blocks to permit well locations to
be accurately recorded and drawdown patterns monitored. The project would
provide for installation of observation wells, equipment and vehicles, staff
to collect and test aquifer samples and conduct pumping test, and drafting
and survey equipment for the mapping program.
3.15      Technology Development.  The STW to be installed are the smallest
possible with existing equipment. However, because they irrigate 3-5 ha,
they are generally too large (and costly) for the smallest farms. The project
would, therefore, include a program of research, design, installation and
field testing to provide alternative technologies suitable for the smaller
farms. It would include development of (a) small diameter low cost well
points, made of either bamboo or thin-walled corrugated PVC; (b) small capa-
city pumps, either manually or (where rural electrification is available)
electrically operated; and (c) custom services schemes using small mobile
pumpsets serving a group of wells on a rental basis. The project would
provide for manufacture by the Irrigation Department of new type bamboo
screens and manual pumps (pendulum and rotary), electrification, installation
of wells and wellpoints, tubewells and pump components, equipment and staff.
Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 5)
3.16      In addition to improvement of Assam's groundwater monitoring
capability (Para 3.14), an essential feature of the project would be the
monitoring and evaluation of project progress and its impact. Monitoring
consists of the timely gathering and analysis of data to measure the build
up and performance of the various organizations supported under the project.
Monitoring of physical and financial inputs (recruitment of staff, provision
of transportation, equipment, housing, installation of STW etc.) would largely
be carried out through the normal reporting systems of the concerned Depart-
ments. However, this information needs to be supplemented to provide an
independent assessment of performance of project organizations and of farmers'
reaction to recommended practices. For this purpose, and to evaluate project
impact (increased production resulting from the reorganized extension service
and from investment in STW, increased farmers' income and distribution, mea-
surement of STW costs and benefits etc.) the project would provide for staff,
equipment and funds for surveys (para 5.10).



- 14 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A.  Cost Estimates
4.01      Detailed cost estimat:es, which include duties and taxes estimated
at about US$0.5 M are given in Annex 6-10 and are summarized below:
Thousand Rupees        Thousand US Dollars
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Extension
Civil Works                  21,485    -       21,485   2,387      -      2,387
Equipment and Vehicles        6,786   2,310   11,096       976      257   1,233
Training                      5,614    -        5,614      624      -       624
Establishment /a             33,946   2,967   36,913   3,771       330   4,101
Subtotal                 69,831   5,277   75,108   7,758        587   8,345
Adaptive Research & Trials
Civil Works                  11,798     270   12,068   1,311         30   1,341
Equipment and Vehicles        2,725   1,600    4,325       303      178     481
Training and Consultancy        575   1,651    2,226        64      183     247
Establishment /a              8,975     575    9,550       997       64   1,061
Subtotal                 24,073   4,096   28,169   2,675        455   3,130
Strengthening of Irr. Dept.
Civil Works                   1,134        4    1,138      126       -      126
Equipment and Vehicles          846      205    1,051       94       23     117
Training                        115      -        115       13       -       13
Establishment /a              4,282      119    4,401      476       13     489
Subtotal                  6,377      328    6,705       709      36      745
Monitoring and Evaluation       3,427      103    3,530      381       11     392
Total Before Contingencies  103,708   9,804  113,512  11,523   1,089  12,612
Physical Contingencies        7,805      558    8,363      868       62     930
Price Contingencies          23,638   2,087   25,725   2,626        232   2,858
Subtotal                 31,443   2,645   34,088   3,494        294   3,788
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           135,151  12,449  147,600  15,017   1,383  16,400
/a   Establishment costs include incremental operating costs, incremental
salaries and allowances, and taxes.



- 15 -
4.02      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal and relate
to prices in April 1977. Physical contingencies have been applied at appro-
priate rates (up to 15%) on civil works, equipment and furniture and average
about 7% on total basic project cost. Based on Bank estimates of future price
movements in India, price contingencies have been applied cumula.lvely as
follows (Annex 11):
(a) Local equipment, vehicles, training, and incremental salaries
and operating costs: 6% in 1977, and 7% per annum thereafter;
(b) Civil works: 7% in 1977 and 8% per annum thereafter; and
(c) Imported equipment: 7.5% per annum 1977-79, and 7%
thereafter.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 146.7 M (US$16.4 M),
would be provided as follows:
IDA     GOA/GOI   Total
US$ Million ----
8.0       8.4       16.4
(49%)     (51%)    (100%)
The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms, and
would finance about 50% of project costs, net of duties and taxes.  This would
cover foreign exchange costs of US$1.4 M and about 44% of local costs. IDA
funds would be channeled through GOI to GOA in accordance with GOI standard
terms and arrangements for financing of State development projects. The bal-
ance of project financing (US$8.4 M) would come from GOA/GOI. The project
would, through strengthening the Irrigation Department, also facilitate imple-
mentation of a complementary groundwater development program. This program
would be carried out under the IDA-supported ARDC line of credit and is ex-
pected to cost US$15.6 M. Finance would come from farmers (US$1.1 M), and
commercial and cooperative banks (US$14.5 M).
C. Procurement
4.04      The main items to be procured are:  civil works; vehicles, includ-
ing motorcycles and bicycles; and equipment. There would be no international
competitive bidding. Civil works range from small low-cost houses for VLEW to
larger research buildings.  Civil works contracts (US$5.1 M) would be small and
dispersed, both geographically and over time, and would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding following local advertising and assurances were obtained
accordingly. There are numerous qualified local contractors to carry out civil
works.



- 16 -
4.05      About 135 motor vehicles of various types (US$1.0 M) would be
required under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities
over four years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate
maintenance and availability of spares would be of paramount importance,
this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already
used by Government departments. Thus, procurement would be by local compe-
titive bidding under existing procedures which are satisfactory. Motorcycles
and cycles (US$0.3 M) would be purchased by individual staff according to
their preference.
4.06      Scientific equipment for research stations (US$0.2 M) would in-
volve small contracts from various suppliers of specialized items. Inter-
national competitive bidding would, therefore, not be practical. As most of
the world's leading manufacturers of scientific equipment are represented in
India, are competitive, and could offer local maintenance service, GOA's
established local procurement procedures utilizing competitive bidding where
appropriate would be employed. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and
furniture (US$0.6 M) would be bulked wherever possible and purchased follow-
ing similar competitive bidding procedures, except where valued at less than
US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal
trade channels. Assurances were obtained in accordance with the above.
4.07      Assurances were given that consultants employed (US$0.1 M) would
have qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment that
would be mutually agreed between GOA and the Association. The balance of
project costs (US$9.1 M) consists of staff training (US$1.3 M), incremental
salaries and traveling allowances (US$3.5 M), and operating costs (US$4.3 M)
not involving procurement.
4.08      Assurances were given that for contracts in excess of US$100,000,
draft tender invitations and bid documents would be submitted for IDA review
before issue.
D. Disbursements and Audit
4.09      There would be no disbursements against tubewells and pumpsets
purchased by farmers, under the complementary groundwater program, nor against
incremental operating costs and salaries. Disbursements for other components
under the Credit would extend over five years for:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for overseas training and 80%
of expenditures for local training and consultancy services;
(b) 80% of cost of civil works and locally procured equipment
and vehicles; and
(c) 45% of salaries of incremental staff.



- 17 -
4.10      Disbursements against expenditures for locally procured equipment
costing Rs 20,000 or less, and payments under civil works contracts for one
or more progress payment not exceeding Rs 50,000 would be against a certifi-
cate of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be submitted for
review but would be retained by GOA. It would be available for inspection
by IDA during the course of project review missions. Disbursements against
all other items would be fully documented. Certificates of expenditure would
be audited at least once every six months and a report submitted to IDA
promptly thereafter. Suitable assurances were given. A schedule of esti-
mated disbursements is in Annex 12, Table 1.
4.11      Assurances were given that all institutions using project funds
would keep separate accounts of expenditures made under the project to be
audited annually, for each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied by independent and qualified auditors.
Audited accounts would be submitted to IDA not later than nine months after
the end of each such year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Overall responsibility for implementation of the reorganized
extension program, the program of adaptive trials and the groundwater pro-
grams would be with the Agricultural Production Commissioner (APC), through
the Secretaries of the Departments of Agriculture and Irrigation. Respon-
sibility for research at the commodity-oriented research stations would be
with the Director of Research, Assam Agricultural University. The APC would
be assisted by a project manager at Deputy Secretary level or above. Such a
manager has been appointed; he would work exclusively for the project and
project related matters. He would be responsible, through the APC, for
disbursement of and accounting for project funds and submission of periodic
progress reports in a form acceptable to IDA. Development agencies outside the
Departments of Agriculture and Irrigation and AAU, in particular the lending
banks and ARDC, would be coordinated through regular meetings at State and
district levels (Paras 5.05 - 5.07). To ensure efficient implementation of the
buildings component of the project (other than for AAU, which would be respon-
sible for its own building program), a Special Project Implementation unit
would be established by November 30, 1977, within the Public Works Department
(PWD) under a suitably qualified engineer; suitable assurances were given.
A buildings implementation schedule is in Annex 12, Table 3.
5.02      Extension.  A full time additional Director of Agriculture (ADA)
has been appointed and is responsible, under the Director of Agriculture, for
day to day administration and control of (a) the extension program and (b)
through a special adaptive trials cell to be set up at AAU (para 5.03), also
for the adaptive trials program. He would be assisted by a team of four senior
SMS who should be responsible for, inter alia, development of extension training
programs, arranging for staff to be sent to training institutions both within



- 18 -
and outside Assam, and review of extension recommendations. He would also be
assisted by two Zonal Joint Directors of Agriculture (JDA) and a small support
staff. This directorate would be responsible, inter alia, for: recruitment
and training of staff, budgeting and procurement, and supplying information
required by the APC for progress reports.
5.03      FTS.  The Department of Agriculture would be responsible for the
adaptive trials program at FTS. A special cell would be set up under a Joint
Director Agriculture (JDA) (Adaptive Trials) who would be directly responsible
to the Additional Director. Assurances were given that a full-time JDA (Adap-
tive Trials) would be appointed by December 31, 1977, or such later date as
may be agreed by the Association. The cell would be located at AAU, Jorhat,
and would comprise a production economist, statistician and agricultural
engineer. The cell, with technical backup from AAU, would be responsible for
overseeing work on the nine FTS through station heads, and would provide an
essential link between AAU and FTS. FTS station heads would be of the rank of
Deputy Director of Agriculture. Staff for FTS would be seconded to DOA from
AAU; this would ensure that MAU staff would spend substantial periods working
in the field.
5.04      AAU Research.  The Director of Research would be responsible for
execution of the research program at AAU and commodity stations and for
technical input into FTS. He would also be responsible for preparation and
submission of financial estimates to the APC (as funds contributed by GOA
for research are channeled through the Department of Agriculture), recruit-
ment of staff (including provision of staff for FTS), construction, procure-
ment, disbursement of and accounting for project funds and preparation of
progress reports to be submitted to IDA., through the APC. He would be
assisted by two senior scientists to be appointed under the project (pro-
posed TORs are in Annex 3, Attachment 3) who would be responsible for day-
to-day administrative and technical matters on the two main commodity research
stations and one substation to be strengthened under the project. Assurances
were given that GOA would cause AAU to employ a senior and experienced research
scientist by December 31, 1977, to assist in the formuiation of research
proposals and organization and management of research programs (Terms of
reference are in Annex 3, Attachment 2).
Cooperation Between Agriculture and Research
5.05      As neither extension nor research can function effectively without
close coordination, the relationship would be enhanced through regular meet-
ings at State and district levels, and through close working relationships at
district level. Technical committees would be set up at district level to
review and formulate FTS work programs, and extension recommendations for
passing on to VLEW at fortnightly training sessions (such committees have been
set up in the three districts in which the extension program is now opera-
tional). When formulated, these programs and recommendations would be sub-
mitted to a State level Technical committee, to be set up by November 30,
1977, and to be chaired by the Director of Agriculture. It would comprise
the head of the adaptive trials cell (as secretary), Director of Research,



- 19 -
Director of Extension Education (AAU), heads of the University Departments,
Additional Director, and headquarter's SMS. This committee would review sea-
sonal extension and adaptive trials results, modify and approve programs
submitted by the district technical committees, and review overall progress.
It would also assess input and credit supply requirements associated with
extension recommendations which would be passed to the appropriate supply
agency through the APC (para 5.08). Assurances were given that these state
and district committees would be set up and would meet at least twice a year.
Regarding research programs at AAU drawn up by the Director of Research, these
are currently vetted by a Research Advisory Committee. This committee will
shortly be replaced by a Statutory Research Council with wider representa-
tion, in particular from the DOA.
Groundwater Program
5.06      The Custom Service/Groundwater Wing of the Irrigation Department
under the Secretary, Irrigation, would be responsible for planning, adminis-
tering and supervising the shallow tubewell program and for ensuring imple-
mentation of the groundwater monitoring and technology development programs.
Responsibility for day to day administration would be with an Additional
Chief Engineer. This Wing would be responsible, inter alia, for: monitoring,
recruitment and training of staff, budgeting and procurement, and supplying
information required by the APC for progress reports.
5.07      The Agriculture Department, through the extension service, would
be responsible for advising farmers to invest in STW as appropriate. Coor-
dination between agencies involved in the STW program, in particular irri-
gation, agriculture and credit institutions would be enhanced as follows:
(i) At the State Level: By the establishment of a Groundwater
Coordinating Committee by November 30, 1977, to: formulate
overall policies, set annual targets, and ensure coordination
between involved agencies. This Committee would meet at
least four times a year. Assurances were given in accordance
with the above. It would be chaired by the APC and would
comprise Secretary Irrigation, Additional Chief Engineer
in charge of the program, Secretaries of Agriculture and
Cooperation, Project Manager, Chief Engineers -- Irrigation
and Assam State Electricity Board -- , Director of Agricul-
ture, Registrar of Cooperatives, and representatives of
ARDC and concerned banks.
(ii) At the District Level: By the establishment of a Sub-
Committee of the existing District Level Coordinating Com-
mittee under the chairmanship of the Deputy Commissioner
to: review progress, resolve conflicts and ensure achieve-
ment of installation targets. This sub-committee would be
set up in districts where the groundwater program is being
implemented.



- 20 -
(iii)  At the Block Level:  By setting up implementation teams in
the 20 development blocks selected for this program to:
assist with collection and processing of applications for
tubewells, prepare supporting documentation and advise far-
mers on engineering aspects of water use.
Project Coordination
5.08      A Project Coordinating Committee chaired by the Chief Secretary or
APC would be set up by November 30, 1977, to ensure cooperation among various
Government organizations, AAU and the banks. It would meet at least twice a
year. Assurances were given in accordance with the above. It would also
ensure that problems of credit, marketing and input supplies were given due
attention. The committee would include the Vice-Chancellor of the University,
the Secretaries of Agriculture, Irrigation and Cooperation, Registrar of
Cooperatives, Director Research (AAU), Director of Agriculture, Additional
Director of Agriculture, and, as required, representatives of the Assam
Agro-Industries Development Corporation, Fertilizer Corporation of India,
Assam Seed Corporation, Assam State Cooperative Consumer and Marketing
Federation, the Food Corporation of India, ARDC and concerned banks.
Credit
5.09      The cooperative credit structure, for both short and long term credit
is weak. This has largely been caused by lack of demand and a reluctance on
the part of the now defunct primaary cooperative credit societies to collect
outstanding payments. There have been several suggestions for strengthening
cooperative credit over the past few years, based largely on studies carried
out by the RBI. But several of the recommendations contained in these studies
have yet to be put into effect. Assurances were obtained that GOA would (i)
review, in consultation with RBT, RBI's past studies for strengthening the
cooperative credit structure in Assam, in particular, measures to improve the
collection of overdue debts, and would draw up by March 31, 1978, a time
schedule for the implementation of the recommendations arising from such
review, and (ii) thereafter, implement such recommendations accordingly. In
the case of long term credit, required particularly for implementation of
groundwater development, ARDC refinancing of lending by commercial banks to
farmers has proved satisfactory. Under the project this arrangement would
continue.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.10      Monitoring (and reporting) of physical and financial inputs would
be the responsibility of the Secretary of the concerned Deparment or AAU as
appropriate. As discussed in para 3.16, to provide a measure of the degree of
achievement of project goals, as well as to generate data concerning the
performance of project organizations, this data needs to be supplemented with
further monitoring and evaluation on a sample basis by an external agency.
This requires continuous data gathering and, for this purpose, an evaluation
unit would be set up at headquarters under a Senior Statistician and would be
supported by small units at district level, each staffed by two or three field
data collectors. In turn, this ongoing evaluation would be supplemented with



- 21 -
in depth ad-hoc studies. Funds have been provided for the Secretary
Agriculture to commission outside agencies to help with evaluation and to
carry out ad hoc studies, as required. Agencies suitably qualified to do
this would include the already established Agro-Economic Research Center
for North East India (Jorhat) or the Department of Agricultural Economics
and Farm Management (AAU). Because of the need for uniform procedures for
monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project and of similar projects
being undertaken in other States, GOI, concerned States and IDA are currently
working out details and it is expected that these would be completed by July
1977. A summary of the draft report is in Annex 5. Assurances were given that
GOA would carry out continuous monitoring and evaluation of the project in a
manner to be mutually agreed with IDA by December 31, 1977. Results of such
monitoring and evaluation would be sent to IDA at least once a year.
VI. FARMERS BENEFITS
Farmers Benefits from Extension
6.01      As discused in para 2.17, the extension methodology would start
with recommendations to farmers that can increase yields with little or no
cash input and progressing, only as the farmers' ability and cash surplus
rises, to more costly means of production. Initial emphasis would be given
to low-cost improvements in cultural practices. Once these have improved, ex-
tension packages would be developed emphasizing low use of purchased inputs;
the first inputs promoted would be improved or high-yielding varieties and
seed treatment, both relatively cheap and capable of giving marked yield
improvements. This would be followed with low fertilizer doses and would
build up until routine use of pesticides and higher doses of fertilizer would
be recommended. In practice, details of extension recommendations would vary
between regions and farmers would adopt recommendations at very different
rates. Because of the uncertainty of the rate at which farmers would adopt
these practices, it is not possible to determine an aggregated increase in
production for the project. However, based on farmer trials in Assam the
following cumulative yield increases might be expected (details are in Annex
13) as farmers progress from one technology package to another:
--   about a 25% gain from improved cultural practices;
--   a further 20% gain from the adoption of improved
(or high yielding) varieties;
--   a fertilizer response ratio ranging from 5:1 on rainfed
crops to 10:1 on some irrigated crops (provided farmer
is already using HYV and improved cultural practices);
--   a further 15% gain from routine use of pesticides.



- 22 -
These yield increases are less than those reported by farmers following exten-
sion recommendations in Nowgong District in Assam, where the reorganized ex-
tension service has been operating for two crop seasons. In the IDA-financed
Chambal and Rajasthan Command Area Development Projects, provisional figures
indicate that over a three year period, yields of rice increased by an average
of 60%, wheat by 80% and those of mustard and gram more than doubled as a
result of improved extension of the type this project would provide. While
these are largely irrigated areas, it illustrates the magnitude of responses
actually achieved under good conditions.
Farmers Benefits from Investment in STW
6.02      Four farm models have been prepared (details in Annex 13) to examine
the financial viability of investing in a STW in Assam. The models assume
irrigation by purchase of a 3.5 hap STW at Rs. 7,500. It is expected that those
investing in a STW would be the mnore progressive farmers, who, if they did not
purchase a STW, would follow many of the extension recommendations for rainfed
farming. Benefits of investment in irrigation are, therefore, compared with
benefits that would be expected by the same (progressive) farmer under rainfed
conditions. Based on current crop and input prices, all irrigated models show
a doubling of cash income by full development; however, benefits under rainfed
conditions would also be considerable.  The opportunity cost (benefit stream
under rainfed conditions) has, therefore, been deducted from the benefit stream
under irrigation. Rates of return so calculated show that investment in STW
is financially attractive on a f].ood-free farm of 2 ha or over (even with a
25% reduction in the benefit stream returns vary from 36% to over 100%). How-
ever, on flood prone land farmers with less than about 3 ha would be finan-
cially better off without a STW. Criteria for sinking of STW are prescribed
by ARDC and are satisfactory.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Financial.  Total costs of extension and research over the five-year
project development period amount to about US$12.3 M or US$12 per benefitting
farm family -- about US$2.2 per capita -- (assuming I M farm families benefit,
Para 7.04). Incremental costs tc be met from GOA budget sources, following
project completion, would be about US$1.5 M per annum, or about US$1.5 per
benefitting farm family per annum. This additional requirement compares
with GOA present budgetary allocation to agriculture of about US$48 M equiv-
alent annually and would be met without difficulty. Incremental costs would
be partly recovered through levies on incremental paddy and other agricultural
produce entering commercial markets.
7.02      Economic (Extension & Research).  The principal economic benefit
of the project would be an increase in agricultural production, principally
foodgrains. Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of proj-
act, however, is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricul-
tural practices, which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed
solely to extension and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience
in Assam to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However,



- 23 -
there is no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of
utilization of existing resources which would be brought about by the proj-
ect, would generate a high rate of return. It would be reasonable to expect
that by year 7 production of rice would increase by about 43,000 tons state-
wide, equivalent to an average yield increase of 20 kg/ha, or less than 2%
over the "without project" situation. Given such increases, the economic rate
of return would be 50%. Details are in Annex 14. Experience with reorganized
extension services in other States of India suggests that there would be
little risk that yields would not increase by an average of at least 20 kg/ha
as a result of the project, since this is well below gains recorded in farmer
trials in Assam and is less than gains reported by responding farmers in
Nowgong District, where the reorganized extension service has been in ope-
ration for two crop seasons (para 6.01). The high rate of return should,
however, be treated with caution since, as improved agricultural practices
spread, further investments in infrastructure and services would become
necessary.
7.03      Economic (Investment in STW).  Details of assumptions for calculating
the economic return to investment in a STW are in Annex 13. In brief, models
are as in Para 6.02, but using economic prices, family labor shadow priced at
Rs 3 per manday and investment costs charged at the time they are incurred.
Taxes have been excluded. The opportunity cost (benefits stream under rainfed
conditions) has again been deducted. Rates of return vary between 40% and
80%, showing that investment in STW is economically sound.
7.04      Number of Beneficiaries.  Experience in the Chambal and Rajasthan
Canal Command Area Development Projects indicates that after two years, more
than 50% of farm families followed some or most of the extension recommenda-
tions. Based on this assumption, the project could directly benefit about
200,000 contact farmers and more than 1 M of Assam's 1.9 M farm families
within the project period. Ultimately most of Assam's farming population are
expected to benefit. Only about 15,000 farm families would benefit from the
complementary STW program and these would mostly be large farmers. However,
the groundwater development program, including the technology development
program would lay the base for future development of a larger scale ground-
water program, in particular bringing irrigation within the means of even the
smallest farmers.
7.05      Social.  Past agricultural development strategy has aimed at
achieving production increases mainly through high doses of inputs. This
either requires credit which more often than not, is not available to small
farmers, or cash, also not available; consequently larger farmers have bene-
fitted most from past programs. The reorganized extension service would
focus first on recommendations primarily involving more labor -- an asset
most small farmers have in abundance. The project thus provides a unique
opportunity for small and marginal farmers to benefit. Aside from generating
high economic benefits, the extension and research components of the project
would, therefore, have a considerable beneficial impact on marginal and small
farmers, now living close to the poverty line.



- 24 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the Indian delegation confirmed that GOA had
issued an order for (i) the transfer of 80% of VLW (about 960 VLW) from
Community Development to the Department of Agriculture, and (ii) the re-
assignment of DOA staff from special schemes to the reorganized extension
service (para 3.04).
8.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following
major points, that:
(a)  GOA would (i) ensure that field level staff live in the
area assigned for their operations and for this purpose
GOA would provide such low-cost housing as necessary,
and (ii) by March 31, 1978, complete a survey to locate
sites for such housing and offices (para 3.07);
(b)  GOA would provide credit for purchase of motorcycles
and bicycles by extension staff on such terms and
conditions that would create incentive for the
purchase of such vehicles (para 3.07);
(c)  by November 30, 1977, GOA would establish a Special Project
Implementation Unit within PWD, under a suitably qualified
Engineer, to ensure efficient implementation of the buildings
component of the project (other than for AAU, which would be
responsible for its own building program) (para 5.01);
(d)  GOA would appoint a full-time Joint Director of Agriculture
(Adaptive Trials) by December 31, 1977 (para 5.03);
(e)  GOA would cause AAU to employ a senior and experienced
research scientist by December 31, 1977, to assist in the
formulation of research proposals and organization and
management of research programs (para 5.04);
(f)  technical committees be set up at State and district levels
to meet at least twice a year (para 5.05);
(g)  a Groundwater Coordinating Committee, would be set up by
November 30, 1977, and would meet at least four times a
year (para 5.07);
(h)  a Project Coordinating Committee, to be chaired by the
Secretary or the APC, would be set up by November 30, 1977,
and would meet at least twice a year (para 5.08);



- 25 -
(i) GOA would (i) review, in consultation with RBI, RBI's past
studies for strengthening the cooperative credit structure
in Assam, in particular, measures to improve the collection
of overdue debts, and would draw up by March 31, 1978, a
time schedule for the implementation of the recommendations
arising from such review, and (ii) thereafter, implement
such recommendations accordingly (para 5.09);
(j) GOA would carry out continuous monitoring and evaluation of
the project in a manner to be mutually agreed with IDA by
December 31, 1977, and that results of such monitoring and
evaluation would be sent to IDA at least once a year
(para 5.10).
8.03      With the above assurances the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of US$8.0 M to GOI.
June 14, 1977






ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Present Agricultural Situation and Potential
for Development 1/
A. Background
1.        The most important crop in Assam is rice.  In 1975/76 it constituted
some 80% of the total area under annual crops in the state. Total production,
areas and average yields for main annual crops are shown below:
Crop          Production            Area /a       Yield
('000 tons)        ('000 ha)      (tons/ha)
Rice             2,290             2,241           1.02
Wheat               68                57           1.19
Pulses              36                91           0.40
Oilseeds            71               179           0.40
Jute and mesta    162                103           1.57
Sugar cane       1,589                41          38.76
/a  With a total area under annual crops of about 2.7 million
hectares and a net sown area of about 2.2 million hectares,
the average cropping intensity is about 120%.
Source: Department of Economics and Statistics.
These crops are almost totally confined to the plains, which consist of a
strip approximately 6aO km by 75 km lying in the Brahmaputra Valley and an
area of about 5000 km in Cachar District in the south of the state and
separated from the Brahmaputra Valley by the Cachar Hills. Ninety-seven per-
cent of Assam's population is concentrated in these valley areas (see Table 1)
where over 95% of the annual crops are grown.
2.        Climate.  The summer rainfall and temperatures in the plains of
Assam are particularly favorable for rainfed crop production. The 75% prob-
able monthly rainfall exceeds the upper limit of rice evapotranspiration from
the onset of pre-monsoon showers in early May until the end of October.
During this period average daily temperatures range between 22 and 32 0C.  Two
1/   Further details are given in India:  Eastern Region Foodgrains
Production Review (Assam), Report No. 1175-IN.



ANNEX I
Page 2
rainfed rice crops are theoretically possible, and conditions are also well
suited to the production of jui:e. Relatively cool and humid conditions during
the rest of the year ensure residual moisture is only slowly depleted so that
rabi crops of wheat, pulses and oilseeds can be grown. Rabi rice is also
possible, provided supplementary irrigation is available and cold-tolerant
varieties used. Representative monthly rainfall and temperature data are
given in Table 2.
3.        Soils.  The soils of the plains areas are alluvial and, especially
in the flood-prone areas which receive annual deposits of silt, relatively
fertile. The new alluvial soils that cover the greater part of the Brahma-
putra Valley are predominantly sandy or loamy soils of neutral reaction having
moderate levels of available phosphorus and potash, and can be worked with
draught animals even in the dry season. The older alluvial soils on the south
of the valley and in upper Assam are somewhat acidic, poorer in available
phosphorus and, having a heavier texture, cannot be ploughed when dry using
local draught animals. The motntain valley alluvial soils of Cachar district
are more acidic than the other two groups, are intermediate in texture and
have a nutrient content similar to the alluvial soils. There are no signi-
ficant salinity problems and drainage is adequate except in a few low-lying
areas. Extensive reserves of groundwater exist below much of the plains
areas, often at a depth of less than 5 meters (Annex 4).
4.        Floods.  Despite protection works, flooding is a recurring feature
of the Brahmaputra Valley during the peak monsoon period of mid-June to mid-
August. The area of crops damaged varies from year to year but usually aver-
ages above 200,000 ha (about 8% of the total area under crops). It is
estimated that some 400,000 ha of land area are at risk from flooding each
year. Floods usually rise and fall rapidly and unpredictably. Under such
circumstances, floating rice varieties are of little help, and farmers
on these flood-prone lands are usually forced to delay planting until late
in the monsoon to avoid flood damage.
5.        Landholdings.  The average holding is below 1.5 ha and 90% of far-
mers operate less than 3 ha. Moreover, the distribution of land is uneven
as shown below:
Size of holding in ha      % of holdings      % of cultivated land
Below 0.5                     33                     6
0.5 - 1.0                    24                     12
1.0 - 2.0                    24                     24
2.0 - 3.0                    10                     17
3.0 - 5.0                      7                    18
Over  5.0                      2                    23
100                   100
Over 40% of land is contained in the small number of holdings over 3 ha.
However, since these farmers are likely to have more resources to invest



ANNEX 1
Page 3
and better access to inputs, the larger holdings can make a substantial con-
tribution to increased foodgrains production. Official statistics suggest
that only some 15% of land is rented and a negligible proportion sharecropped.
There are indications, however, that sharecropping is more prevalent and may
involve up to 20% of farmers.
B. Present Practices
Major Crops and Cropping Seasons
6.        There are three rice growing seasons in Assam.  The main rice crop
(sali) is transplanted in July and harvested in November or December. It
receives the full monsoon rain. Second is the ahu crop, traditionally direct
seeded at the onset of pre-monsoon showers in March or April and harvested in
June or July. Third is the rabi boro crop, of only minor importance. It is
transplanted into low-lying areas from January to March, harvested in May,
and usually receives some irrigation by traditional means. As the timings of
the three crops overlap, farmers concentrate on the sali crop when water supply
is most assured. The following table shows the relative importance of the
three rice crops (1975/76):
Crop          Production        Area           Yield
('000 tons)    ('000 ha)       (tons/ha)
Ahu (pre-monsoon)        478            636           0.75
Sali (monsoon)         1,767          1,566           1.13
Boro (rabi season)        45             39           1.15
Source: Department of Economics and Statistics
7.        Wheat, pulses and oilseeds are grown on residual moisture as rabi
crops (Table 3). They are sown November to January after harvest of sali
rice. Present traditional sali varieties mature too late to allow rabi
crops to be planted at the optimum time; hence, rabi crops may suffer water
stress which can severely limit yield. The wheat area has increased from a
few hundred hectares ten years ago to about 60,000 ha, at the expense of the
traditional rabi oilseed crops, rape and mustard.
8.        Other major crops are jute and sugar cane.  Jute is sown principally
on flood-prone land in April and harvested in July. Sugar cane is grown in
flood-free areas, planted with the monsoon, harvested after 12 months, and
generally ratooned twice.
Standard of husbandry
9.        Crop husbandry practices are traditional.  Land is prepared by time-
consuming methods using numerous shallow passes of the traditional chisel



ANNEX I
Page 4
(desi) plough, alternating with laddering. For dry-sown crops, clods are
frequently broken by hand using long-handled mallets. Incorporation into the
soil of perennial weeds is poor and land levelling for paddy and irrigated
crops is uneven. Rainfed fields are only lightly bunded. No drainage channels
are provided for rainfed or irrigated fields and the efficiency of water uti-
lization on irrigated areas is low. Except for wheat and some 10% of the rice
area, improved varieties are seldom used.
10.       Direct-seeded crops, whether ahu paddy or rabi wheat, oilseeds or
pulses, are normally broadcast. Annual weeds are numerous in these crops and,
due to the incidence of water stress, highly damaging. Since they are not
line-sown, control measures are confined to occasional hand-pulling of weeds
and, in the case of ahu paddy, to cross harrowing which severely disturbs
both crop and weeds. Yield losses due to weed competition are considerable.
For high-yielding shorter statured rice varieties, which are less tolerant
of harrowing, losses are even greater. Plant populations for rabi crops and
direct-seeded rice are often sub-optimal, and transplanted paddy planting
points are often too widely spaced with too many seedlings per hole. Sub-
optimal plant populations enhance weed competition and further reduce yields.
11.       Harvesting, threshing and storage practices are also traditional.
The climate of Assam poses special problems for the ahu rice crop, which is
harvested at the height of the monsoon, and to a lesser extent for wheat.
Safe storage of these crops is often impossible after drying in damp and cloudy
conditions, and spoilage is common. Saved seed often shows poor germination
for the same reason, although many farmers appear to have accepted a recent
Department of Agriculture recommendation to store saved seed in polythene
bags, with a period of sun-drying every three months.
12.       The benefits of organic manuring are well known to farmers but the
average FYM application rate appears to be only about 1 ton/ha. This is
low in relation to official statistics for the number of domestic animals,
suggesting that it would not be difficult to double this dose. Collected
manure is frequently stored in the open where it is leached by rains before
spreading.
Draught power, implements and input use
13.       Local bullocks are small and capable of a sustained draught of only
about 35 kg per pair. A 3-inch iron mouldboard plough has been developed
by the Assam Agricultural University and gives some soil inversion with a
better rate of work than the desi plough, but less than 1% of the farmers
own one. Bullock-drawn or hand-operated row seeders are virtually non-
existent, and a recent survey shows only one tractor per 5,500 hectares of
cropping. Powered sprayers and threshers are even less numerous.
14.       Use of purchased inputs in Assam is the lowest in India.  Fertilizer
use in 1974/75 is estimated at only some 5,000 tons nutrients (an average of
about 2-3 kg/ha), after reaching> a peak in 1972/73 (see table below). Only
about 10% of rice is of improved local or high-yielding varieties. Seed



ANNEX 1
Page  5
sales (excluding potatoes and sugar cane setts) in 1974/75 totalled about
5,000 tons and most saved seed is sown without fungicide dressing.  Pesticides
are used occasionally on rice and jute but seldom on wheat, pulses, oilseeds
or sugar cane. Only 4000 farmers used institutional production credit in 1974/
75. Cash resources available to the average farmer for financing production
are low. A sample survey by the Assam Agricultural University (AMU) showed
that traditional farmers operating up to 3 hectares spent less than Rs 50 per
farm per year.
Fertilizer Consumption in Agriculture in Assam 1969/70-1974/75
(nutrient tons)
N          P025        K20         Total
1969/70       3,440         1,880        1,150       6,470
1970/71       4,120         1,330        1,000       6,450
1971/72       4,900         2,050        1,200       8,150
1972/73       7,260         3,250        1,900      12,410
1973/74       5,132            645       1,613       7,391
1974/75       3,780           319          434       4,533
15.       The consequences of these unchanging traditional agricultural prac-
tices and the limited use of modern technologies (except on wheat) can be
seen in Table 3. Except for wheat, yields show no significant improvement
over the past 11 years (1965/66-1975/76).
C. Production Potential and Constraints
Production Potential
16.       There are three ways in which foodgrain production might be in-
creased - by increasing the area under cultivation, by raising crop yields
or by raising cropping intensity.    ,
Increasing the area under cultivation
17.       There is little scope for bringing new land under foodgrain culti-
vation. Although only 28% of the geographical area is devoted to annual crop-
ping, most of the remainder is either unsuitable due to slope or rockiness
(33%), already under perennial crops such as tea (2%), or scheduled as forest
reserves (27%). Only some 180,000 ha (2%) are classified as cultivable waste.
Even if this area could be brought under cultivation it would add only 8% to
the present area available for annual cropping.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Increasing crop yields
18.       There is ample scope for increasing crop yields.  In supervised
farmer trials yields from HYV sali rice with high fertilizer doses averaged
3.0 to 3.5 tons rice/ha, about three times the present state average, and for
HYV ahu rice without fertilizer farmers yields averaged 2.1 tons/ha, almost
double the present state average. In weed control trials on sali rice, yields
were more than double the present state average. Fertilizer trials on wheat
have shown 40% yield increases over the present state average.
Increasing cropping intensity
19.       The theoretical scope for raising cropping intensity is considerable
(see para 2). Since most farmers take a full sali rice crop, increasing crop-
ping intensity in practice means growing larger areas of ahu rice and/or rabi
crops. Supervised trials have demonstrated the possibility of triple rainfed
cropping by small farmers in the Jorhat area, with double-cropping on flood-
prone areas. Farmers in a number of areas are already achieving a cropping
intensity of some 170%.
20.       Before a statewide strategy to increase cropping intensity in rain-
fed areas can be formulated, a balance between ahu and rabi seasons must be
determined. Ahu cropping, despite the availability of good quick-maturing
rice varieties, will always be subject to variable pre-monsoon showers and
therefore involves some risk. To take full advantage of early rainfall, rapid
seedbed preparation is necessary and land needs to be prepared when dry; this
is constrained by existing draught power and implements. Moreover, ahu rice
matures at the height of the monsoon causing drying and storage problems. The
desirability of generating a surplus of foodgrains at that time of year is
therefore questionable. For these reasons, major emphasis on increasing ahu
intensity may only be justified in areas where flooding makes it difficult to
raise intensity at any other time of the year.
21.       Increased rabi cropping intensity, since it relies on residual
moisture, does not require soil to be ploughed when dry. It is also easier
for the farmer to assess the risk of subsequent water shortage (in some areas
water may remain within a few centimeters of the surface throughout the year
by capilliary rise from the water table). Planting of rabi crops should be
earlier than at present if establishment and yields are to be more reliable.
This, in turn, would require quicker land preparation or, preferably, an ear-
lier sali harvest. Traditional sali varieties are photoperiod sensitive so
earlier planting will have little effect. The quicker-maturing dwarf HYVs,
while insensitive to photoperiod, are more likely to suffer from the excessive
water depths of the sali season even in non-flood-prone areas. Nonetheless,
these problems are minor compared with those of ahu rice. Increased rabi
cropping is the most practical means of increasing overall cropping intensity.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
22. Irrigation (Annex 4)
Production constraints
23.       These fall under five major headings:
(i) Bad husbandry practices. These include inadequate weed
control, incorrect crop spacing, incorrect timing of
operations to take advantage of favorable conditions
(usually due to poor management of crop rotations),
insufficient organic manuring and failure to exclude
grazing animals from crops. All are items the farmer
himself can remedy at low cash cost and with more effi-
cient use of family labor.
(ii) Constraints over which the farmer has no direct control.
These include flooding, which compels him to plant at
times of increased drought risk, and the heavy rainfall
and low effective solar radiation of the monsoon season
which predispose the ahu crop to post-harvest spoilage
and limit the growth of the sali crop. Variability of
rainfall, especially of pre-monsoon showers, is a
further constriant to rainfed yields and, through its
interaction with ease of land preparation, to cropping
intensity. As a source of risk, it appears to deter many
farmers from attempting to grow any rainfed crop outside
the monsoon.
(iii) Inadequate draught power and implements. Slow land prep-
aration by poor draught animals with traditional imple-
ments both limits cropping intensity and delays the time
of crop planting. Improved implements from elsewhere in
India are usually too heavy for local cattle, and devel-
opment of miniaturized versions which would increase the
rate of work of Assamese cattle has been slow. Programs
for improvement of rearing practices and upgrading of
stock are at an early stage. Line sowing, which permits
weed control by inter-row cultivation, although possible
with traditional equipment, is limited by the lack of
specialized seeders. Few farmers have any equipment
for inter-row weeding apart from the traditional hoe.
(iv) Non-adoption of modern inputs. High-yielding or local
improved varieties, fertilizers and pesticides have gener-
ally been promoted in the past as a complete package, the
adoption of which involved a cash outlay of at least Rs 500
per hectare. Compared with a total annual cash investment
as low as Rs 50 per farm, cost alone has been a major
obstacle to their adoption. Few farmers risk borrowing the
cash and fewer still can provide it from their own resources.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Another major disincentive to adoption has been the low
general standard of husbandry (see (i) above). Under such
circumstances, many farmers have been unable to obtain the
potential benefit of the high-input package, have not earned
enough to cover the increased costs and to guarantee adequate
profits, and have reverted to traditional practices.
(v) Institutional factors. The principal institution-related
constraint has been the failure of extension to raise basic
husbandry standards to the level where farmers could obtain
real benefits from modern inputs. The institutions concerned
with input supply and seasonal credit have been inadequate.
However, with the present low demand for inputs and/or un-
willingness to borrow money to finance HYV production, the
defects of these institutions are not an immediate constraint
to production. Nor will they be for several years as improved
technologies are not advocated as the initial means of raising
production.



ANNEX I
Table 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ASSAM: AREA AND POPULATION BY DISTRICT, 1971
Area in                       Density
District                    Sq. Kms.      Population       per km2
1.   Goalpara               10,356         2,225,103        215
2.   Kamrup                  9,863         2,854,183        289
3.   Darrang                 8,775         1,736,188        198
4.   Nowgong                 5,561         1,680,895        302
5.   Sibsagar                8,989         1,837,389        204
6.   Lakhimpur               5,768           711,600        123
7.   Dibrugarh               7,024         1,411,119        201
8.   Cachar                  6,962         1,713,318        246
Total plains districts       63,301        14,169,795        224
9.  Mikir Hills             10,332           379,310         37
10.  N. C. Hills              4,890            76,047         16
Total Hills Districts        15,222           455,357         30
Assam Total                  78,523        14,625,152        186
Source: Economic Survey Assam, 1974/75.



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monthly Normal Rainfall (mm) and Temperatures ( C) for Representative Locations in Assam
J      F       M      A       M      J       J      A       S       0      N       D       Total
RAINFALL
DRUBRI (Lower Assam)
Mean monthly rainfall         11     19      45    154    481    644    448    305    328    145          12      1      2,953
80% probable monthly
rainfall                     0      2.1    1.9   76.2  301.7  418.3  232.8  200.3  190.9   44.2    0             0    2,216.9
Number days with > 1 mm        1.1    2.1    3.2    8.9   18.0   20.5   17.9   16.3   13.0    6.3    1.0           0.2    108.5
GAUHATI (Cachar District)
Mean monthly rainfall         11     18      53    171    274    292    301    263    190         90      11       5    1,679
80% probable monthly
rainfall                     0      4.1   10.8   98.8  181.6  205.7  206.1  172.9  124.9   35.5    0             0    1,380.3
Number days with > 1 mm        1.3    2.9    5.1   10.1   17.0   17.1   17.0   14.7   12.2    6.1    1.8           0.9    106.2
SILCHAR (Cachar District)
Mean monthly rainfall         15     46    131    313    493    594    547    488    378    207           44        7    3,263
80% probable monthly
rainfall                     0      8.7   36.8  178.3  347.1  492.8  414.3  306.3  234.3  108.6    0.5           0    2,950.7
Number days with  > 1 mm       1.6    4.1    8.0   14.0   19.7   23.6   26.1   23.9   18.2   10.2    2.3            0.9    152.6
DIBRUGARH (Upper Assam)
Number days with >  1 mm       4.9    7.9   10.2   14.6   18.4   21.5   22.8   20.0   17.1   10.0    3.1            2.7    153.2
TEMPERATURES (C)                                                                                                          Mean
Gauhati  - mean               17.6   19.9   23.5   26.4   26.8   28.4   28.9   29.2   28.2   26.2   22.3    19.0    24.7
Silchar  - mean               18.5   20.3   23.7   26.3   26.9   27.8   28.0   28.4   28.1   26.7   23.2    19.9    24.8
Assam    - mean maximum       23.9   25.6   28.3   29.4   30.6   31.1   31.7   31.7   31.1   30.6   27.2    24.4
- mean minimum      10.6   12.2   16.1   20.0   22.2   25.0   25.0   25.6   24.4   21.7   16.1    11.7
0 Z



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Crops: Production, Area and Yield, 1965/66-1975/76
1965/66   1966/67   1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76
Rice, Total
Production ('000 tons)  1,713.4   1,632.4   1,787.5   1,989.6   1,775.6   1,986.7   1,908.2   2,177.2   2,066.3   1,983.6   2,290.4
Area        ('000 ha)    1,797.5   1,851.8   1,886.8   1,952.8   1,967.6   1,974.2   1,967.5   2,068.8   2,077.8   2,057.8   2,240.9
Yield      (tons/ha)         0.95       0.88       0.95       1.02      0.90       1.01       0.97       1.05       0.99       0.96       1.02
Wheat
Production ('000 tons)       3.3        3.5        4.1       4.1        5.6       12.1       48.0      160.4       48.2       78.0       67.8
Area       ('000 ha)         4.7        5.3        6.4        6.6       9.0       20.7       40.0      112.0       41.7       61.2       56.8
Yield      (tons/ha)         0.70       0.66       0.64       0.62      0.62       0.58       1.20       1.43       1.16       1.27       1.19
Pulses
Production ('000 tons)      38.3       33.5       36.8      38.7       36.4       32.2       31.3       48.0       44.7       39.5       35.6
Area       ('000 ha)        87.5       83.5       86.4       90.2      92.1       84.8       86.2       98.0       94.9       96.9       90.6
Yield       (tons/ha)        0.44       0.40       0.43       0.43      0.43       0.38       0.36       0.49       0.47       0.41       0.39
Rape, Mustard
Production ('000 tons)      54.9       57.6       58.4      47.0       48.7       56.5       63.6       65.0       90.5       64.9       63.7
Area       ('000 ha)       125.3      127.2      129.6     129.7      131.2      137.1      135.6      157.8      165.4      168.2      164.1
Yield       (tons/ha)        0.44       0.45       0.45      0.36       0.37       0.41       0.47       0.41       0.55       0.39       0.39
Jute
Production ('000 tons)    148.1       167.2      178.4     136.9      190.5      168.6      204.9      181.8      204.4      148.6      130.1
Area       ('000 ha)       127.4      128.7      136.0     109.0      120.2      129.4      142.6      134.4      149.0      120.5       93.8
Yield      (tons/ha)         1.16       1.30       1.31      1.26       1.58       1.30       1.44       1.35       1.37       1.23       1.39
Sugarcanle
Production ('000 tons)  1,058.4   1,006.2   1,138.5   1,166.5   1,606.2   1,260.6   1,133.9   1,347.4   1,501.3   1,572.3   1,588.8
Area       ('000 ha)        29.6       29.5       30.0      30.7       32.6       32.2       33.8       34.3       39.2       41.9       41.2
Yield      (tons/ha)        35.8       34.1       38.0      38.0       49.3       39.1       33.5       39.2       38.3       38.3       38.6       X F
Source: Department of Economics and Statistics.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension and Training
A. Introduction
1.        The Government of Assam (GOA) has recognized that a modern profes-
sional extension service can rapidly and inexpensively help Assam's two mil-
lion farm families raise yields and incomes. As indicated in Annex 1, the
potential for such increases in Assam is great. Statewide production in-
creases of about 7% p.a. over the next 6-7 years are feasible. That farmers
do respond to changes which clearly increase their standards of living has
been demonstrated by both the growing use of high yielding varieties and the
increasing importance of wheat. But the spread of new technology has been
slow and limited. Moreover, the standards of cultivation of many farmers are
so low that without improvement in basic management practices they cannot reap
the full benefits of modern technology. An efficient extension service is
needed to help farmers improve practices, adopt new technology and increase
their incomes.
2.        GOA has, therefore, decided to reorganize its extension service
to meet this task. GOA will rely primarily on existing staff and facilities.
Nevertheless additional staff, training programs, vehicles, housing and other
facilities will be needed. This project would provide the support required.
B. Background
Rural Administration
3.        Assam can be divided administratively and topographically into
plain and hill areas. There are 8 administrative districts (9 agricultural)
in the plains areas and 2 in hilly areas. 95% of the State's foodgrain is
produced in the plains districts. Because of significant administrative dif-
ferences between the hills and the plains, GOA has decided to confine the
reorganization of extension to plains districts. This description of the
present system is, therefore, confined to these areas. Each district is fur-
ther subdivided into two or three administrative units called subdivisions.
There are 20 administrative subdivisions (21 agricultural) in the plains dis-
tricts each further subdivided into 3 to 10 blocks, with 120 blocks in all.
A new administrative unit, the Gaon Panchayat (GP), was established by GOA in
1973. There are about 660 such units or about 5-6 in each block.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Present Extension Services
4.        At present, field level extension work is the primary responsibi-
lity of the Village Level Worker (VLW), a multipurpose worker employed by the
Department of Community Development and Panchayats and directly responsible
to that Department's representative at the block level, the Block Development
Officer (BDO). The BDO is responsible to the District Deputy Commissioner,
the chief administrative officer at the district level. The Deputy Commis-
sioner's responsibilities cover all matters of government in his district.
There are normally 10 VLW per block, giving a total of about 1,200 in the
plains area, or an average of one VLW per 1,700 farm families. The VLW re-
ceives technical guidance from the Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO), an
employee of the Department of Agriculture. Both VLW and AEO, however, are
administratively responsible to BDO. There are about two AEO per block. AEO
are responsible on matters of substance to the Sub-divisional Agricultural
Officer (SDAO) (one per subdivision) who in turn reports to the District
Agricultural Officer (DAO) (one per district). DAO is backed up by a number
of Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) (normally at least one each for agronomy,
plant protection and horticulture), District Agricultural Information Officers
and other specialists. In the plains districts there are about 64 such staff.
5.        Most DAO in the plains districts report to one of two zonal Joint
Directors of Agriculture (JDA). One JDA covers the eastern end of the Brahma-
putra Valley and is stationed at Jorhat; the other covers the western end and
is stationed in Gauhati. The exception is the DAO of the IADP district Cachar,
who reports to a special JDA responsible for the Intensive Program. These
three JDA, together with other JDA and Deputy Directors of Agriculture res-
ponsible for special crops (e.g. jute) or special agricultural programs (e.g.
multiple cropping), report to an Additional Director of Agriculture (General).
6.        In addition to staff outlined above, others have been posted in
support of special schemes in selected blocks. In plains districts there
are about 630 field level Agricultural Demonstrators with training similar
to that of VLW but employed directly by the Department of Agriculture. At
approximately the same administrative level and also employed by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture are about 170 Assistant Agricultural Inspectors. In
addition to the 210-220 AEO in the normal chain of command, there are an
additional 160 AEO or AEO-level staff associated with special schemes or
regulatory functions (para 25).
Present Training
7.        VLW receive a two-year pre-service training course at one of
two Gram Sevak (Village Worker) Training Centers (GSTC). One GSTC has 100
student places, the other 65. In addition to pre-service training, GSTC
also offer a one-year in-service training course. Courses taught cover
a wide range of subjects besides agriculture, in line with VLW's present
multipurpose role.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        The Assam Agricultural University (AAU) offers pre-service and
limited in-service training for higher level extension personnel (see Annex 3
for a discussion of the AAU research program). Under an IDA-financed educa-
tion project (Credit 342-IN), University facilities are being expanded and
improved with staff trained both in India and abroad. Through its College of
Agriculture, the University offers training for B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees.
Currently about 70-80 students receive B.Sc. degrees annually and 15 receive
M.Sc. degrees. The College of Veterinary Science provides Bachelor and Masters
degrees in Veterinary Science. The AAU Directorate of Extension Education
also has the capability of offering intensive short inservice courses to ex-
tension personnel. In practice these courses have been largely limited to
pre-Kharif and pre-Rabi season workshops of 2-3 days duration during which
the package of practices agreed upon by AAU and Department of Agriculture are
explained and discussed. Normally staff from the subdivision level and above
attend.
Present Problems
9.        The present extension service has serious problems which GOA is
determined to overcome. Perhaps most serious is the lack of a single line of
command for extension staff. With VLW under the control of another agency,
it is inevitable that non-agricultural tasks dominate his work. While agri-
cultural activities are supposed to consume 80% of his time, field studies
suggest only 20-30% is spent on agriculture. Even then activities are likely
to be confined to non-productive report writing and regulatory work, so that
the time spent helping farmers in the field is insignificant. Closely related
is the problem of diffusion of VLW responsibilities by designating him a mul-
tipurpose worker. Being responsible for virtually all aspects of rural de-
velopment, collection of statistics, regulatory work, etc., he becomes respon-
sible for virtually nothing. His responsibilities in one sphere become an
excuse to avoid responsibilities in another and vice versa. Strong incentives
exist for his doing only those tasks which are now most clearly defined and
supervised (e.g. writing reports).
10.       In the past, "speciaL schemes" based on particular crops or aspects
of agriculture were adopted in attempts to overcome the basic weaknesses of
the system. Over time a large number of such schemes have emerged. However,
they have only served to weaken the extension effort further by dissipating
efforts and obscuring the need for fundamental reform of the extension service.
11.       In addition to VLW efforts being spread thinly over many subjects,
they are also spread over too many farmers. Moreover, extension work is
neither systematically planned nor adequately supervised, and at all levels
extension staff lack the mobility necessary for effectively carrying out their
work.
12.       The training of extension staff is inadequate and often outdated.
Most extension staff from VLW up received their agricultural training more
than ten years ago. Many new developments in agriculture have passed them



ANNEX 2
Page 4
by. In-service training has been inadequate, sporadic, and often irrelevant.
Linkages with research have been weak, with the only contact being the semi-
annual, two-day workshop mentioned above; a regular flow of information
from the field to research and back again has not been established. Among
other problems, this lack of contact means that recommendations developed by
research and passed on to farmers by the extension service are often inappro-
priate both for farmers' needs and for their technical and financial abilities.
Recommendations usually focus on high levels of use of purchased inputs such
as fertilizer, rather than on improved cultivation practices (such as weeding)
which cost little, bring sure results, and in any case are necessary to use
purchased inputs effectively.
C. The Proposed Agricultural Extension System
13.       The project would support the reorganization of the extension service
in Assam. A well-trained, highly motivated, and technically competent single
organization would be created, making optimal use of existing staff. The
organization would be given the means to reach the majority of Assam's farmers
with relevant and practical technical guidance aimed at increasing production
and income. The available manpower, supplemented as required by additional
staff, has excellent potential to achieve results provided it is properly
reorganized to concentrate on extension per se, and is subjected to continuing
and frequent training. VLW would be redesignated as VLEW (Village Level Ex-
tension Workers) to reflect their exclusive extension role. The new extension
system would cover the plains districts of the entire State within three years.
14.       The crux of the reorganized extension service is the single line of
command from Director of Agriculture down to VLEW. In Assam this will be
achieved by transferring to the Department of Agriculture 80% of VLW already
working in Blocks under CD. This would leave about 2 VLW per Block with the
BDO to cover non-agricultural tasks. All field staff in "special schemes" and
a portion of other DOA administrative and regulatory staff will be redeployed
for general agricultural extension work, thus providing about 1660 VLEW. About
780 new VLEW posts would be established and filled over a three year period
with graduates from a revised intensive training program at the existing GSTC.
This would provide 2440 VLEW for Assam's nearly 2 million farm families, a
ratio of I VLEW for about 800 farm families. VLEW would devote their time
exclusively to agricultural extension work and would not be assigned regula-
tory or administrative work. Their work would be organized into a systematic
time-bound program of training and visits with close supervision. This system
was introduced on a pilot basis in one subdivision (covering over 9% of the
State's foodgrain area) in April 1976, with good reactions from both extension
staff and farmers. Many farmers are already reporting substantial production
gains from the adoption of practices as simple as line transplanting and weed-
ing. Two additional subdivisions will be covered soon.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
The Extension Methodology
15.       The extension technique is based on a systematic program of train-
ing full-time agricultural workers (VLEW) combined with frequent visits by
VLEW to farmers' fields. This system enables a VLEW to visit each group of
farmers once a fortnight after he has received intensive training in those
agricultural practices and recommendations which relate directly to farm
operations during that fortnight. The fixed-schedule of visits enables close
supervision.
16.       The organizational structure (see Chart 1) is based on the total
number of farm families and the number of families which one VLEW can reason-
ably expect to visit. In Assam where population density is high, a ratio of
one VLEW per 800 farm families will be adequate. The estimated 1.9 million
farm families of Assam would be divided into 2,440 groups of about 800 fami-
lies each, to which one VLEW would be allocated. Each unit, in turn, would be
divided into 8 groups of about 100 farm families each. Each of these groups
would be visited by the VLEW, on a fixed day of the week, once every two weeks.
Thus, a VLEW would cover 4 groups in one week and 4 groups the next. A VLEW
would spend the full day with the scheduled farmers' group; during the morning
hours he would visit their fields and, in the afternoon, hold an open meeting
in the village at a predetermined hour. One of the four remaining working
days each fortnight would be devoted to in-service training during which VLEW
learn recommended practices to be given to farmers during the following fort-
night and have an opportunity to bring farmers' problems to the attention of
trainers (para 29). One day in the following week VLEW would meet together
with their supervisor, the AEO, as a group so that points taught in the pre-
vious week's training season can be reinforced and problems encountered re-
solved. During the two remaining days VLEW would make visits to supervise
field trials, arrange any special extension activities, or make up visits
missed because of illness or holidays and complete office work. VLEW would
maintain a chart showing days for visiting each group, as well as the time
and place of the meeting. His supervisor, the AEO, would keep such charts
for all VLEW supervised by him. An example of a chart is shown below.
A TYPICAL TIMETABLE FOR A VLEW
MON  TUE  WED  THU   FRI  SAT  SUN    MON  TUE  WED  THU  FRI  SAT  SUN
EXT                                    EXT
1    2    3    4   TRA   VIS   H        5    6    7    8   AEO  VIS   H
1    =    Visit Farmers Group
TRA  =    Training
AEO  =    Meeting with AEO
EXT       Extra visits for checking field trials, office work,
VIS       make up visits due to holidays, illness, etc.
H    =    Holiday



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Concentration of Efforts
17.       Contact farmers.  To concentrate extension efforts and achieve a
visible impact on production, VLEW would concentrate on selected contact
farmers, since it is clearly not possible for each VLEW to reach all farmers
by direct contact. Under technical guidance from above and in consultation
with farmers themselves, VLEW would select about 10 contact farmers from
within each group. Contact farmers would be from all levels of village
society, including sharecroppers, and would be selected for their potential
influence and willingness to collaborate with extension workers. Changes
in contact farmers could be made, especially between seasons, if they were
ineffective or if they so desired. VLEW, during field visits, would make
special efforts to visit all contact farmers' fields, and these farmers, in
turn, would share the responsibility of organizing and attending afternoon
meetings and allowing fields to be used as demonstration plots and for field
trials.
18.       As extension efforts would be concentrated on selected farmers, so
also would VLEW concentrate on the most important crops; focussing mainly on
those practices which bring the best economic results and on making optimum
use of available resources. Initially, concentration would be on improving
agricultural management practices and would include better land and seedbed
preparation, improved nursery maintenance, use of good seed, seed treatment,
timely operations such as weeding and proper spacing of plants, etc. Thus
stress would be on improved management practices which are known to produce
sure and quick results. In adopting better practices farmers face little
risk, but will be required to work harder. Since most small farmers have
surplus labor but little cash this fits their financial situation well.
Moreover, farmers often cannot get full benefit from purchased inputs or more
costly investments (such as tubewells) until their practices have improved.
19.       Cultural practices requiring basic changes would first be recom-
mended for adoption on only a small part of the land. This would overcome
a natural reluctance to rapid change and allow results to be compared with
traditional practices. Once farmers' yields and incomes increase substantially,
confidence in VLEW will grow and farmers will become more receptive to further
advice. Simple improvements in cultural practices can be introduced into an
extension service quickly and without requiring an elaborate, time-consuming
screening and trial process. They will also allow the FTS to come into opera-
tion and start generating further relevant messages for the extension system.
Thus the extension service can rapidly make that initial impact which will
ensure its continued success. After improving management practices, farmer
incomes would be higher and they would be financially better able to adopt
more expensive (e.g. fertilizer) or more dramatic (e.g. new varieties or
cropping patterns) recommendations. As farmers move to this stage, however,
emphasis would be on how to use limited purchased inputs to the best advantage.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Organizational and Technical Support
20.       To ensure adequate supervision and training of VLEW, it would be
necessary to strengthen technical and support staff. Table 1 shows the
number of staff required and available at various levels. Chart I shows
the general organizational structure. The number of VLEW posts would be
increased to about 2,440. Under the project 305 AEO would be drawn from
existing agricultural staff to provide field level supervision and technical
support. Each AEO would supervise about 8 VLEW and would join each one
at least once every two weeks during his visits to farmers. This would
enable him to visit every farmers' group at least twice each season. He
would check that VLEW visits and meetings were carried out on schedule and
would assist both VLEW and farmers in technical matters. He would also
assist VLEW in carrying out demonstrations and simple trials. Once every
two weeks he would meet his VLEW as a group to reinforce the lessons of the
previous week's training and suggest adjustments, if necessary. He would also
join VLEW in their fortnightly training sessions with SMS (para 29). This
close ongoing relationship between AEO and VLEW should relieve the latter of
the need for formal reporting. VLEW would be expected, however, to keep a
diary to be scrutinized and signed by any supervising officer visiting him.
21.       Staff supervising VLEW and AEO would know VLEW and AEO schedules of
visits, and would be able to find out quickly and easily whether visits were
being made as planned, not only by making surprise visits to areas in which
VLEW and AEO are scheduled on particular days, but also by questioning farmers
about visit days, asking the names of VLEW and AEO, messages learned, etc.
Experience in Assam has already shown that, once farmers become aware of the
visit schedule, they themselves become effective supervisors of the work of
VLEW and AEO.
22.       The Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO) supervises AEO and
VLEW under his jurisdiction and is in overall charge of the training pro-
grams. One SDAO can supervise effectively about 8 AEO. A number of Assam's
present administrative subdivisions are so large that an SDAO might have
several times this number of AEO. Moreover, they would contain too many VLEW
for one team of SMS to train effectively (para 23). Consequently six exist-
ing subdivisions will be further divided, establishing within them six new
agricultural subdivisions. Even then, most subdivisions would have more than
9 AEO. In such cases Additional SDAO (ASDAO) would be appointed to share SDAO
supervisory responsibilities. New posts would be created for SDAO of new
subdivisions and for ASDAO. The District Agricultural Officer (DAO) will be
responsible for the operation of the extension system in his district and
will supervise SDAO.
23.       Technical Support Staff.  To provide technical backup and support
at field level, two Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) (one specializing in
field crops and the other in plant protection) would be posted in each sub-
division. Thus two SMS would support and train about 90 VLEW. They would
spend about one-third of their time on field visits with AEO and VLEW,



ANNEX 2
Page 8
helping them solve technical problems and conducting and supervising field
trials. Each SMS would also spend about one-third of his time training
groups of VLEW once each fortnight. For such training VLEW in each subdivi-
sion would be divided into 2-4 groups of manageable size. The remainder of
the SMS time would be devoted to visits to and collaboration with local re-
search facilities (Field Trial Stations, etc.). In subdivisions in which the
shallow tubewell program is concentrated, an additional SMS (agronomist/water
management) would be posted. As it is not possible to provide more than
minimal technical support at subdivisional level, additional support would
be provided at each of the 9 districts, in the form of two senior and better-
trained SMS, probably concentrating on agronomy/water management and plant
protection. In conjunction with FTS staff, they would play a central role
in developing local recommendations and in passing them on to AEO and VLEW at
training sessions (paras 29-32) and would form a vital link between research
and extension. The existing District Agricultural Information Officer would
be responsible for administration of the training programs in the District,
coordinating participation of the subdivisional SMS, SDAO, District SMS, and
researchers in training activities and in organizing and supervising use of
audiovisual aids and equipment in the District.
24.       At headquarters level, the present Director of Agriculture would be
assisted by an Additional Director of Agricultural (Extension) (ADA). This
would be a new post with full time responsibility for supervising the exten-
sion service and ensuring its smooth operation. ADA (Extension) would be
assisted by two existing Zonal Joint Directors of Agriculture covering res-
pectively, the Eastern and Western Zones of the state. He would also receive
technical support from a team of four senior subject-matter specialists (one
each in crop production, crop protection, water management and farming sys-
tems). This specialist team would be responsible for technical and profes-
sional aspects of the service, including developing in-service training pro-
grams for extension personnel (particularly SMS), both within and outside
Assam, maintaining close contact with researchers in Assam, the rest of India
and other countries, and reviewing technical recommendations to be made.
Organizational Chart 2 shows the relationship between the extension service
and research institutions.
Extension Staff Requirements
25.       The following table summarizes approximate staff requirements,
numbers of available staff and incremental staff required at each level:



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Total      Existing          Incremental
Post                     Required        Staff          Requirement
VLEW                      2,440          1,664               780 /a
AEO                          305            387                0
SMS (Subdivision)            60             28                32
ASDAO                         23              0               23
SDAO                          27            21                 6
DAIO                           9              9                0
SMS (District)                18            18                 0
DAO                            9              9                0
Zonal JDA                      2              2                0
SMS (HQ.)                     4              2                 2
ADA (Extension)                1              0                1
/a   Totals do not add since one subdivision has and will retain
4 more VLEW than normally required.
Details of requirements by subdivision and by year are shown in Tables I
and 2. Salaries of additional staff required form part of total project
costs (Annex 7, Table 5).
Salaries and Incentives
26.       Extension work is carried out under difficult conditions and pays
poorly. Salaries would not be increased; the project would, however,
provide for advanced increments to be offered on a yearly basis to 25% of
VLEW and other selected staff who have shown willingness, devotion and
results in their work. Provision of some housing, motorcycles and bicycles
(para 42-44) would be a considerable incentive to field staff. Adequate
allowances for travel and housing would be provided.
Demonstrations, Experiments and Field Trials
27.       Past use of field demonstrations in India's agricultural exten-
sion programs has been wide but with varying results. The project places
no special emphasis on a demonstration program, but will rather utilize
fields of contact farmers, where new practices would be demonstrated; in
addition, simple field trials would be carried out on experimental farms and
farmers' fields. These demonstrations would form an integral part of the work
of every VLEW and AEO, and would be supported by SMS, district specialists,
and research workers from the local FTS (Annex 3).
Evolution of Extension Recommendations
28.       Before each crop season, District Level Extension and Trials Com-
mittees, headed by the DAO and consisting of SMS, staff of the local Field
Trials Station and possibly selected farmers, would compile recommendations



ANNEX 2
Page 10
arising out of the field trials program in the area and from their own ex-
perience. These suggestions would be screened by a State Level Technical
Committee, chaired by Director of Agriculture, which would also consider
recommendations from specialist staff at extension headquarters, the Assam
Agricultural University and other sources. Those recommendations approved by
the State Level Technical Committee would be reviewed by the District Level
Committees to ensure that they are suited to local conditions, and modified
as necessary. Recommendations would then be formulated into a series of fort-
nightly impact points for the coming season. Through a parallel process the
program of field trials for the season would also be developed (para 27).
Chart 3 describes this process.
Inservice Training (see Chart 4)
(a) VLEW Training
29.       Continuous inservice training of VLEW is an essential part of the
new approach to extension. Each fortnight on a fixed day, VLEW would receive
intensive instruction on the few specific recommendations relevant to farming
operations in the next fortnight. This is the most critical of all the train-
ing programs, and efforts should be concentrated on making it effective. The
training would be practically oriented and would provide time for VLEW to carry
out specific recommendations, in the field and for him to practice how he would
approach farmers with these recommendations. VLEW will be given pamphlets,
summarizing recommendations, and samples or other visual aids as required. At
these sessions VLEW would also have an opportunity to raise and discuss prob-
lems encountered in previous weeks. When adequate SMS are available, this
training session would be conducted by SMS with the assistance of the relevant
AEO and SDAO. VLEW in each subdivision would be divided into groups of about
30 for this training; SMS may, as a temporary expedient, train AEO who in turn
would train VLEW. The DAO and District-level SMS and Agricultural Information
Officer would supervise and assist at these training sessions. Training ses-
sions would be held at Field Trial Stations if possible, otherwise at sub-
divisional or district level headquarters. Staff of the local Field Trial
Stations would participate.
30.       These fortnightly training sessions also provide an opportunity to
ensure coordination between the extension service and input supply and credit
agencies. VLEW will no longer be responsible for gathering statistics on
these matters, but from his and the AEO's contact with the farmers, he should
be able to point out supply constraints and inform input supply/credit agencies
about recommendations and what proportion of farmers are likely to follow them.
AEO and VLEW could also ascertain the credit/input supply position from these
agencies and report any problems noted by farmers in obtaining supplies. It
would not normally be necessary for representatives of the input supply and
credit agencies to attend more than one of these sessions a month and such
matters should normally not occupy more than one hour of the training session.
31.       Tn addition to the regular fortnightly training sessions there
would also be two pre-season training sessions a year for VLEW. These would



ANNEX 2
Page 11
last 2-3 days and be conducted at subdivisional or district headquarters, or
at Field Trial Stations, by district and subdivisional extension officers
and SMS, Field Trial Station staff and AAU staff as available. 1/ The object
of those sessions would be to provide VLEW with an overview of recommendations
for the season as a whole, enabling them to better understand the individual
fortnightly recommendations. The sessions would not only provide an opportu-
nity for VLEW to react to these recommendations, but also serve to emphasize
extension goals and priorities. An additional specialized training course of
about one week would be given each year covering one particular topic (e.g.
rice production, wheat production, soil identification and fertility, etc.).
Training would be by SMS with assistance from AAU and Headquarters specialists.
(b) AEO & Senior Staff
32.       Once a month, on a fixed day AEO would attend a one-day training/
planning session at subdivisional headquarters. The program would be con-
ducted by subdivisional level staff supplemented by district level specialists
and would cover the training program for the upcoming month. During this ses-
sion a detailed schedule of activities (training, demonstrations, etc.) would
be fixed.
33.       Two pre-season training sessions would be held annually at district
level for AEO and subdivisional level staff, prior to the pre-season training
of VLEW.  This course would be organized by the DAO and his staff following
the workshops during which the statewide extension recommendations were
developed and approved (see para 28).
34.       SMS play a critical role in providing training and technical support
to VLEW.  As few existing SMS are well-trained, special attention will have to
be given to their training to ensure they have the information and skills they
need. Each year SMS would spend about one-third of their time working with
researchers at Field Trial Stations and gathering information from research
facilities and other sources for use in their VLEW training sessions. This
would involve visits of SMS to Field Trial Stations, AAU, fields of progressive
farmers and other sources. In addition each SMS should receive one or two week's
intensive training each year in subjects related to their speciality. These
aspects of SMS work and training would be coordinated at District and Head-
quarters level. Training would be arranged either in Assam or in other parts
of India. Special short courses for other senior staff (for example in admin-
istration and management, extension methods, etc.) would be provided as necessary.
I1   Field trials stations would also be used for directly training farmers.
Under the Dept. of Agriculture's existing program, groups of up to 25
young farmers receive 2-week residential training courses at these
stations (currently called Farmer Training Centers); however, additional
training facilities provided by the project would only be used for
farmer training when not required to train extension staff.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
35.       Chart 4 outlines the various forms and levels of inservice train-
ing. ADA (Extension) will be responsible for organizing pre-season workshops
for District level staff and pre-season training sessions for AEO and sub-
divisional staff. ADA (Extension), together with his group of senior subject
matter specialists, will also be responsible for organizing special short
courses for SMS and other senior staff. The Agricultural Information Officer,
under the direction of the DAO and in consultation with the district and sub-
divisional SMS will be responsible for arranging training at the subdivisional
levels. In-service training costs are included in total project costs (Annex 7,
Table 4).
Other Training
36.       Orientation Training.  As the extension system is introduced in
new subdivisions it is important that existing staff in the area understand
thoroughly the new approach to extension and its initial message. GOA's
experience in Nowgong subdivision has demonstrated that such training is
essential for the initial success of the extension system. Consequently a
one week course will be given to all staff prior to the introduction of the
extension system in their subdivision. Trainers would be headquarters
staff and field staff from areas in which the system is already operational.
37.       Pre-service Training.  About 780 new VLEW posts will be created and
filled under the project. These new staff would be recruited according to
current GOA procedures and trained at two existing Gram Sevak (Village Level
Worker) Training Centers. Following a specially designed curriculum which
stresses the practical aspects of agriculture and concentrates on the most
important crops, recruits would receive an initial six-month training course
followed by field work as VLEW. Over the next two years they would attend two
additional three-month courses. By using existing GSTCs intensively, a rea-
sonable match between the number of VLEW required and available can be main-
tained (see Table 2). Project costs include operating costs of GSTC over the
period of the project plus provision for some expansion of staff at these
institutions to cope with increased enrollment. Visiting lecturers from the
Department of Agriculture would supplement regular teaching staff. The number
of new staff required at higher levels in the extension hierarchy are rela-
tively small and can be met by promoting the best existing staff or by re-
cruiting better graduates of AAU. For example, better AEO or M.Sc. graduates
from MU could become SDAO, ASDAO or SMS. Experienced VLEW or AAU B.Sc. grad-
uates could be recruited to fill AEO slots thus vacated. Such newly recruited
senior staff would be given a short specialized supplemental training program
both in their field of specialization and in the new approach to extension
(Annex 7, Table 4).
38.       Refresher Training.  A number of existing VLEW have had inadequate
training. While fortnightly training sessions will help overcome these defi-
ciencies, a longer refresher training course may be necessary. In the initial
years of the project, however, in-service and pre-service training programs
described above must necessarily take precedence. Once these programs are
well established, refresher training courses can begin and those VLEW most



ANNEX 2
Page 13
in need can be identified. The program would last about 6 weeks and would
be conducted at either AAU Department of Extension Education or at existing
Farmer Training Centers. The costs would be included in the project (Annex 7,
Table 4).
39.       Scholarships:  A smalL number of scholarships to AAU would be
provided each year for extension staff who show exceptional talent and for
whom such higher training would be necessary for further promotion (Annex 7,
Table 4).
Administrative Expenses
40.       The Department of Agr-iculture's staff would increase substantially
under the project as VLW with the Community Development Department are
transferred to them and new VLEW posts are created. To cope with the in-
creased administrative burden, administrative and accounting staff of the
Department of Agriculture would be strengthened (Annex 7, Table 5).
Equipment, and Materials Supporting Extension Operations
41.       Equipment would be provided for production of publications, printing
of diaries, and preparation of audio-visual aids. The project would also pro-
vide for duplicating machines and photographic services, needed for effective
extension work with farmers; materials and equipment required by VLEW and AEO
for demonstration aids, field trials, and ongoing training and extension work;
incremental operating costs; and funds for preparation of materials and aids
for training sessions (Annex 7, Table 6).
Transportation and Mobility
42.       A key feature of the new extension methodology and its organization
is a requirement that the entire staff spend most of their time in the field.
Each week, VLEW would spend four days on pre-planned visits and a fifth day on
field trials, demonstrations and special requests. AEO would spend at least
four days a week with VLEW. SMS would be expected to devote two days to field
visits and two days to field trials each week. DAO, SDAO and ASDAO would
spend at least three days a week in the field. Transportation is thus crucial
to the success of the program, and is presently a serious constraint. The
project would provide for: 2 cars, 100 four-wheel drive vehicles, 9 vans,
about 300 motorcycles and 1,830 bicycles. Motorcycles and bicycles would be
sold on credit to AEO and VLEW respectively. Subdivisional level staff could
also be eligible for motorcycle loans.
43.       Terms for staff loans for purchase of motorcycles and bicycles
appear generally adequate but sufficient funds need to be allocated for these
loans which should be made available to all AEO and VLEW, regardless of length
of service or retirement date. GOA are reviewing traveling allowances, required



ANNEX 2
Page 14
so that extension staff are adequately compensated for their travel expenses.
Motorcycle allowances are likely to be raised from Rs 0.18 per km to about
Rs 0,24 and the fixed travel allowance for VLEW from Rs 30/month to about
Rs 40. Project costs include the costs of additional vehicles, their operat-
ing costs and incremental travel allowances (Annex 7, Table 6).
Offices and Staff Housing
44.       Offices would be established in the six new subdivisions which would
be formed under the project. It is important that extension workers live in
or as close as possible to their areas of operation. At present, 42% of VLW
have their own accommodation or live with relatives, 48% live in government-
provided houses and 10% rent quarters. The project would provide for renova-
tion of about 850 existing VLW houses (about half of which are now vacant),
and construction of about 600 new houses. At full development about 60% of
VLEW would thus live in government-provided houses. At the AEO level about
40 new houses would be constructed and about 100 renovated, providing govern-
ment housing for about 50% of staff at this level. Also at subdivisional
level accommodation would be provided for about 50% of staff (Annex 7,
Table 2).



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Requirement and Availability of ExtensLon Staff bv Level and Sobdivisain
Level         me.                                    Nle,     Noe.                       No.               District       .J
Farm       VTJEIa'/    SILMI          VLEU        AEOs_/  SDAO-/  AvAil-  SDAO   ASDA06  SHS5    Avail-   SMS                       SRI/AID       JDAV    Rvodu4arter" SRS          ADA Extension
Failteq       Te-        Avail-         Re-          Re-      Re-      able    Ra-    Re-        Re-     able      Re-    DAO2!/    R ired9    Re-    Re-   Avail-                  Re-   Avail-
(o00o)1k      aiqred        be         quired       paired  eufred   SMAD   gutted                                         quired  paIred   SH tred  4ultd  S_     ATO-  qitred putred   able   New  qpired   able   New
Pilot Period
Nowgong                 164.0         205          191        14             26        2        1       1        2        5        4        1      1        2       1       2       4       2       2       1       0       1
Barpete                 140.0         172          124        48             21        2        1       1        2        5        4        1       1       2       1
Kokra alh               112.0         138           84        54             17        2        1       1        1        4        4        0
Year I
Norigeon                 54.4          68           47        21              8        1        1       0        0        3        3        0
Dhubri                  120.0         148          111        37             18        2        1       1        1        5        4        1
Go.lpara                100.8         124           78        46             16        1        1       0        2        3        2        1      1        2       1
Stilchar                 97.6         120          109        11             15        1        1       0        2        2        2       0       1        2       1
Nalbari                 110.4          136          88        48             17        1        1       0        2        3        2        1
Gauhati/Renfsa          127.2         156          133        23             20        2        2       0        1        4        3        1      1        2        1
Year 2
Texpor                  136.0          167         102        65             21        2        1       1        2        4        0        4       1       2        1
Jorhet                   80.0          98           76        22             13        1        1       0        1        2        0        2      1        2        1
N. Lakhlopur             62.4           76          52        24             10        1        1       0        1        2        0        2       1       2        1
HailekandL               44.0           50          54         0 (-4)          7       1        1       0        0        2        0        2
Katiaganj                62.4           80          66        14             10        1        1       0        1        2        0        2
Dibrugarh                68.0           82          61        21             10        1        1       0        1        2        0        2       1       2       1
Year 3
Nengaldel               123.0          154          84        70             19        2        1       1        1        4        0        4
Db_mjt                   40.8           50          36        14               7       1        1       0        0        2        0        2
Sibeegar                 88.0          108          76        32             14        1        1       0        1        2        0        2
Gologhat                 80.            99          52        47              13       1        1       0        1        2        0        2
Tiauskla                 76.0           93          40        53             12        1        1       0        1        2        0        2
Leave Excess                           116           0                        116  1   _        _          _        _        _    _        _       _        _       _
TOtAL                 L887.8        2.440        1.664       7t0            305      2        21       6       23       510       S       32       t       18       9       2      4        2       2      1       0       j
1/ Soarce: 1971 Census.
/  One per 800 term families adjusted for joint fmilies.
3/  Including 80S of Gran Sevehk tranaferred from Comunity Development Departmnt; IOO  of existing ODA Agrtcultural Demonstrators *nd-602 of other DAO field staff. 
4/802 existing AUOs
5/  Six new snbdivieions to be establiahed to create units which one SM  team can cover adequately and/or which are more mangeable geographically.
6/  ASDO poet to be created wherever 8DAO has  ore than 8 AO8  to supervise.
7/  One tw-person SHS team per subdivilton plus one additional SHS (Agronomy/water Hnaagment) *n areas where tubewell program is concentrated.
8/  Allocation of existing  SIS i  notioni, assumes 18 of exesting SMS allocated to District I and the remainder allocated to subdivisions covered by the and of year one.
9/ Sufficient staff erm e lmedy svailable.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRDJECT
Requirements of Extension Staff by Year-/
Pilot                       Y  e  a  r
Period      1         2          3          4        _5
VLEW
Existing Staff       - Yearly           399       566        411        288
- Cumulative      399       965      1,376      1,664      1,664      1,664
New Staff Required  - Yearly            116       186        146        216        116
- Cumulative      116       302        448        664        780        780
Training Output      - Yearly           151       262        106        106        106        106
- Cumulative      151       413        519        625        731        837
AEO
Existing Staff       - Yearly            64        94         71         76
- Cumulative       64       158        229        305        305        305
Subdivision
Existing SDAO        - Yearly             3         7          6          5
- Cumulative        3        10         16         21         21         21
New SDAO             - Yearly             3         1          1          1
- Cuulative         3         4          5          6          6          6
New ASDAO            - Yearly             5         8          6          4
- Cumulative        S        13         19         23         23         23
Existing SMS         - Yearly            12        16
- Cumulative       12        28         28         28         28         28
New SMS              - Yearly             2         4         14         12
- Cumulative        2         6         20         32         32         32
District Level
Existing DAO         - Yearly             2         3          4
-Cumulative         2         5          9          9          9          9
Existing SMS/AIO    - Yearly            4/2       6/3        8/4
- Cumulative      4/2      10/5       18/9       18/9       18/9      18/9
Zonal Level
JDA (Existing)       - Yearly             2
- Cumulative        2         2          2          2          2          2
Headquarters Level
Existing SMS         - Yearly             2
- Cumulative        2         2          2          2          2          2
New SMS              - Yearly             2
- Cumulative        2         2          2          2          2          2
New ADA (Extension) - Yearly              1
- Cumulative        1         1          1          1          1          1
1/ From Table 1.
2/ Output from the six-month courses at the two GSTC (165 student places) less 5% drop-out
rate from training and less 50 graduates per year to replace retirement and turnover from
existing stock of VLWs (3% p.a.).
3/ Includes graduates of one-year training program at one GSTC (91) plus 60 surplus field
staff transferred from A.AU and Assam Seed Corporation.



ANNEX 2
Chart 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXTENSION ORGANIZATION
Director
of Agriculture
ADA (EXTN)
4 Senior SMS
ZONES (2)                            (       Zonal (JDA)
DISTRICTS (9)                             District Agricultural Ofticer
Agricultural           SMS                 SMS
information &,      (Agronomy/             (Plant
Training            Water
Officer         Management)           Protection)
Subdivisional         j
SUBDIVISIONS (27)                             Agricultural Officer
(Agronomy)       (Plant Protection)
AEO 1305)___
VLEW (2440)
8 FARMER UNITS/VLEW
10 CONTACT FARMERS/UNIT   -200,000 CONTACT FARMERS
100 FARM FAMILIES/UNIT    )-2 MILLION FARM FAMILIES
* And Additional Subdivisional Agricultural Officer,as required.
World Bank- 16835



ANNX L
Chart 2
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LINKAGCS BETWEEN EXTENSION & RESEARCH
STATE LEVEL                              STATUTORY
TECHNICAL   - - - - - - - - -  RESEARCH
COMMITTEE                                 COUNCIL
00 ~ ~ ~~~4
00~ ~ ~ ~~~~4
00~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~4
.DEPARTMENT                                                                          ASSiAM
OF                                  I                                      AGRICULTURAL
AGRICULTURE  _                          B              \                     .   UNIVERSITY
/It 
~I/
/          [   JDA (F~~~~~~ield 
|      / -        ~~~~~~~Trials) .
DECHNICA                                             REINAL
tt  IChartill}  \                         J ~~~~~~~STATIONS
/\ 
District                                                  LD TRIAL
(SMS5)                                                  STATIONS----- 
Subdivision
(SMS)
. I 
AEO
VLEW
World Bank- 16836



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EVOLUTION OF EXTENSION RECOMMENDATIONS
Generation of                       Collation &                                                               Adoption/                          Formulation of
Prioposed                          Framing o                         Review, Approval                       Rejection/                      Specific Fortnightily
Recommendations                    Recommendations                         or Rejection                        Modification                      Recommendations
District Committee                                                    State Level Committee
(DAO/SMS/ErS staff/                                                  Director of Agri. (Chmn.)
farmers)                                                           ADA (EXTN) (Secy)
-O   Joint Director of                      AAET)Director of Research (AAU)                                          Dstc
Agri. (Field Trials)                    and staffN                   Dir. of Extn. Ed. (AAU)             >mDistrict ee                             DAO/SMS/SDAO
Extension Headqtrs.                     adsffDir.. ICAR. Res. Complex                                           CmiteDQSSSA
Assam Agri. University                                                Joint Dir. of Ag. (Field
ICAR                                                                   Trials)
Others
EVOLUTION OF FIELD TRIAL PROGRAM
Generation of                    Collation &                 Rve,Apoa 
Proposed                       Framing of                    orReview. io Aproa            Trial Plns
Topics                        Objectives                    o  eeto                        rprto
District Committee                                             State Level Committee             JDA (FTS)                                      JDA (FTSI
(DAOISMS/FTS Staff/                                            Director of Agri.
farmers) 
Jioint Director of                                             JDA (FTS) (Secy.)
Agri, (Field Trials)               JDA (Field-----             ADA (EXTN)                        FT   ead                                    District Committee
Extensioh Headqtrs.                Trials)                     Dir. of Research (AAU)
Assam Agri University                                          Dir.. ICAR. Res.                      I
ICAR                                                             ComplexII
Others                                                         Dir. of Extn. Ed.                 FTS                      FTS                    FTS
AAU)                            Research              -Research   ~        -    Research
Officers                Otticers                Officers
World Bank -16837



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
In-Service Training Chart
Admin. Level                            Participants
Activity       At Which Held  Frequency Duration          (Number)             Trainers                 Organizer
Fortnightly      Within            1 per      1 day    VLEWS (about 30)      SMS, AEO, Other         District Agricultural
VLEW, Training   Subdivision       2 weeks                                   Specialists             Information Officer,
Session                                                                                              SDAO, SMS
Preseason        Subdivision       2 per      2-3      VLEWS (about 90)      Subdivisional &         DAIO, SDAO, SMS
VLEW             or District       year       days                           District Staff, FTS
Training         HQ                                                          Staff, AAU Staff
Monthly AEO      Subdivision       1 per      1 day    AEO's (10-15)          Subdivisional &        DAIO, SDAO
Training/        HQ                month                                     District
Planning                                                                     Staff
Session
Preseason        District          2 per      2-3      AEO's, SDAO,          District Staff,         DAIO
AEO/Subdivi-     HQ                year       days     ASDAO, SMS            FTS Staff, AAU
sion Staff                                             (50-60)               Staff/HQ
Training                                                                      Specialists
Preseason        Headquarters      2 per      2-3      DAO, AIO, District   Director of Agri.,    ADA (Extension)
District         and/or Assam      year       days     SMS, FTS Staff        ADA (Extension),
Staff            Agricultural                          (60)                  HQ. Specialists
Workshop         University                                                  AAU Staff
Special          AAU;  Head-       1-2 per   1-2       SMS, District SMS,   AAU, All-India           ADA (Extension),
Short Courses -  quarters;  out   year       weeks    Other Senior           Institutes, Other       Senior HQ., SMS         15
Senior Staff     of State                              Staff                 Universities
Special          District          1 per      1 week   VLEWs (90)            AAU, ADA (Extension), ADA (Extension),
Short Courses -                    year                                      HQ. Specialists,        DAO
VLEW                                                                         District SMS
December 20, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Research
I. Background
1.        Until 1973, agricultural research was mainly the responsibility of
the Department of Agriculture, but fundamental and applied research is now
the responsibility of the Assam Agricultural University (AAU) 1/. AAU is re-
sponsible for state financed research projects and for local implementation of
centrally sponsored projects of the Indian Council for Agricultural Research
(ICAR). Some post-graduate research is also carried out in conjunction with
AAU's teaching program in Departments of Agronomy, Agricultural Chemistry and
Soil Science, Botany and Plant Pathology, Zoology and Entomology, and Genetics
and Plant Breeding. Teaching staff in these departments devote part time
to research.
2.        The First Education Project (Credit 342-IN) is assisting AAU's de-
velopment, concentrating largely on institutional building, staff development
and the necessary physical facilities (mainly teaching). Relatively few of
the fellowhips awarded under this Credit have been to staff whose main duties
are in research (of about 57 fellowships awarded in the Faculty of Agriculture
and the College of Basic Sciences and Humanities, only 7 or 8 were specifically
for training in research). There is now a need to strengthen AAU's research
manpower and, at the same time, promote closer integration of research and
teaching. This would ensure that staff whose main duties are in teaching would
contribute to the overall research effort and vice versa, thus leading inter
alia to the fullest possible use of scarce trained manpower. This can be
largely be achieved by filling the many sanctioned research posts which are
currently vacant (see Table 1) due to shortage of adequately trained staff.
However, some additional research posts will need to be created to cover other
aspects of crop production which presently have no research input.
3.        Principal experimental programs of the Research Wing are:  for rice
(agronomy, varietal improvement, entomology and pathology); wheat (agronomy,
varietal testing and seed storage); maize (agronomy); pulse crops (agronomy
and varietal improvement) and water management. AAU has two instruction-
cum-research stations and several regional research and experimental stations
(Attachment 1).
1/   The Departments experimental activities are now confined to supervising
"mini-kit" evaluation of new varieties by farmers, and field trials on
farmers' fields.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        In addition to AAU's crop oriented experimental programs, the Depart-
ment of Agricultural Engineering is working on the development of improved
animal-drawn implements, and the Department of Agricultural Economics and Farm
Management is carrying out centrally funded cost-of-production studies. The
main AAU campus (Jorhat) is also the location of the centrally financed Agro-
economic Research Center for North East India.
5.        Of the major crops, rice research is located at Titabar (Sibsagar
District) and Karimganj (Cachar District) and jute and oilseeds research at
Shillongani (Nowgong District). The main work on rice at Titabar is in
varietal selection and breeding, maintenance of a large germ plasm collection,
crop protection (especially studies to control rice stem borers and other
pests by chemical and other means), fertilizer needs of different varieties
on the various soil types and the general agronomy of the crop. Similar
work is carried out at Karimganj under high rainfall conditions, on land
subject to deep flooding. Only a small amount of work is in progress at
Shillongani. Research has largely concentrated on producing recommendations
for irrigated rabi crops, using HYV and high level of fertilizer application.
Insufficient attention has been paid to kharif rainfed crops and to providing
recommendations suitable for use by small farmers who have limited access
to credit and inputs. Centrally-sponsored ICAR schemes, whilst responsible
for the major research impact, are more oriented to national requirements
than those of State and regional needs. Even so, some good work is in pro-
gress. Research accomplishments include, for example, the development of a
long strawed variety of transplanted paddy (Monohar Sali) and attempts to
incorporate the high yielding characteristics of dwarf HYV into Monohar Sali,
whilst preserving its disease resistance and other desirable characteristics.
There is a reasonable amount of basic agronomic information available, much
worked out at Titabar and Karimganj. This information covers; seed selection
and treatment, seedbed preparation and management, seeding rate, field prepa-
ration, plant density, rates and timing of fertilizer applications, weeding,
plant protection and treatment at or after harvest for the major crops, in-
cluding paddy (broadcast and transplanted), jute, sugarcane, maize, groundnut,
soyabean and a range of vegetable crops.
6.        The current shortage of suitably trained research staff (a situation
which is slowly improving as more staff returns from training courses) and the
lack of adequate laboratory and housing facilities at research stations is
restricting these research efforts. While there is a reasonable research base
for extension activities planned in the near future, it is essential to develop
effective research programs to ensure the continuous flow of new information
and materials to support future extension activities. New information so
generated must be shown to be safe and reliable when applied in the main
agro-ecological zones within Assam and to be financially attractive to the
farmer. The project provides support for such research activities at the field
trials level and at AAU research stations.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
II. Project Research Support
A. Introduction
7.        The research program would comprise two separate but complementary
components. The first would provide for the establishment of nine field trial
stations and a headquarters unit at AAU, Jorhat, to serve the main agroecolo-
gical zones in the plains area of Assam and to provide centers for training
of extension staff. The second, would strengthen two main commodity research
stations of AAU and one sub-station covering (a) rice and (b) jute, oilseeds,
pulses and wheat.
B. Field Trials Stations
Objectives:
8.        The objective of setting up nine Field Trials Stations (FTS) is to
provide the reorganized extension service with technical recommendations
matched to the locality, and resources and skills of farmers. Under the
strategy to be adopted for increasing production, farmers would receive ex-
tension advice based initially on low-cost methods of yield improvement using
better cultural practices and later, as skills develop, on more costly tech-
niques such as use of purchased HYV seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. Ini-
tial recommendations would be relatively easy to formulate from existing
knowledge; the first task of the FTS would be to quantify the effectiveness
and reliability of these recommendations. Subsequently, the more difficult
task of refining the next set of recommendations would be undertaken. Work
on FTS would rely heavily on the flow of information from AAU and its commo-
dity oriented research stations to be strengthened under the project.
Sites
9.        In Assam the varying combinations of soils, climate, and suscepti-
bility to seasonal flooding create a number of broad agro-ecological zones
with different seasonal cropping patterns, intensities and practices for
which different extension approaches are necessary. The main zones are:
Main Agro-Ecological Zones
Administrative
Zone                                    Site of FTS      Sub-Division
Upper Brahmaputra Valley Region                   Tinsukia          Tinsukia
Central Brahmaputra Valley Region                 Shillongani       Nowgong
Lower Brahmaputra Valley Region                   Balagaon           Kokrajhar
North Bank Plains Region                           Sukiliboria       N. Lakhimpur
Barak Valley Region (Cachar District)             Mahacal            Karimganj
Flood-Prone Areas                                 Patbaushi         Barpeta



ANNEX 3
Page 4
One FTS would be developed in each of the above zones and locations are shown
on the map. Once the initial six FTS are operational, a further three FTS
would be established to provide one FTS in each agricultural district. Sites
for the three remaining stations will be selected during year 1 of the project.
Programs
10.       The program at each FTS would seek to develop packages of improved
cultural practices for major crops appropriate to the agroecological zone
covered. Initially, work would be concentrated on rice, jute and wheat, to
be followed by pulses, oilseeds and sugarcane as stations developed. AAU,
at the commodity-oriented research stations strengthened under the project
would be working on cultivation practices, varietal improvement and selec-
tion, pest and disease control, farm management studies and improvement
of farm implements (Para 21). From this, a few varieties, improved cultural
practices etc., would be selected by AAU for testing at each FTS. Initial
emphasis would be placed on low cost methods of increasing production, in
particular developing cropping patterns making best use of rainfall. The
FTS would thus be the focal point for testing and introduction of new practices.
They would be used extensively for training of extension staff and would form
the two-way link between research and extension.
Project Components
11.       At each FTS the project would provide for:
(i) Farm development. Land would be levelled and bunded.
Fences would be repaired and farm roads constructed and
repaired as necessary. The few existing farm buildings
would be repaired, if practicable, and each farm would be
provided with a godown-cum-garage and an attached covered
area suitable for processing material from experimental
plots and for grain drying. Irrigation, with a distribution
system suitable for use on small plots would be provided for
at least 3 ha, either by installation of a shallow tubewell
or by surface diversion. Since the emphasis would be on
simulating techniques for small farmers, bullocks and hand
tools would be provided for most farm operations. Each FTS
would also be equipped with a power tiller with trailer and
accessories. A list of equipment, buildings and works to be
provided for the typical FTS is given in Annex 8, Table 6.
(ii)  Offices, laboratories, trials equipment.  Office-cum-labora-
tories would be constructed for research staff and their
assistants, and a jeep with trailer would be provided for
off-station work. Equipment would be simple and confined
to that needed for direct support of field trials. Funds
would not be provided to enable more complicated laboratory
investigations to be carried out, for instance, detailed



ANNEX 3
Page 5
soil analysis or isolation of fungal pathogens, as these
would be referred to specialists of the Department of
Agriculture or AAU.
(iii) Staff training facilities. Four FTS are already equipped
with facilities to accommodate groups of 20 for short
residential courses. These hostels and class rooms would be
repaired as necessary and equivalent facilities provided at
remaining stations.
(iv) Staffing. Four research officers would be appointed at
each FTS. The senior, with the status of associate professor,
would be an experienced agronomist and would be in charge of
the station. Others would comprise a soil scientist, an
entomologist, and a plant pathologist and would be supported
by two research assistants and two field assistants. Each
station would have appropriate field and administrative
support staff (see Annex 8, Table 7).
(v) Housing. Standard government quarters would be provided at
each FTS to accommodate the four research officers, two
research assistants and two technical assistants.
12.       The project also provides for the establishment of a special adap-
tive trials cell (para 16) which would be responsible for supervising work on
FTS. It would comprise a Joint Director of Agriculture (Adaptive Trials),
and three specialists, a production economist, an agricultural engineer and a
statisticians 1/. In addition, the project provides appropriate supporting
staff for the cell (Annex 8, Table 7), and vehicles and equipment (Annex 8,
Table 8). Office accommodation and staff quarters for the cell would
be provided by AAU.
13.       All research officers would receive pre-service training.  For the
Joint Director and FTS heads, this would comprise a three-month study tour
and may include one month foreign travel. The more junior officers would
make a two-month study tour within India. In-service training would be
provided for junior research officers and graduate assistants.
1/   The production economist would monitor the financial viability of
actual or proposed extension recommendations. He would form a link
between agro-economic studies at AAU and technical officers at
FTS and would ensure that research was adequately related to
socio-economic constraints faced by small farmers. The agricultural
engineer would work with the Agricultural Engineering Department
at AAU, particularly on improvement of animal-drawn implements
and hand tools for final testing at FTS. The statistician would
analyze trial results and, organize simple socio-economic surveys
dealing with questions which emerge from FTS programs related to
farmers' resources or attitudes.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Project Costs and Phasing
14.       Phasing of expenditures is shown in Annex 8, Table 1.  In view
of the modest size of the program, it is assumed that construction and equip-
ment purchases for the first six FTS would be completed by Project year 3.
The cell at Jorhat would be fully operational by the end of Project year 1.
15.       Total capital cost would be as follows:-
Rs '000
On-farm development                             1,296
Equipment and vehicles                          1,971
Laboratories/offices                              702
Staff accommodation                             2,385
Adaptive Trials cell                              182
Pre-service training                              142
Equipment for Ag. Eng. Dept., AAU                  30
Total                                      6,708
After the five year project period incremental operating costs (including
salaries) would be Rs 2.08 million per annum.
Organization and Management
16.       AAU is a young institution with a weak but developing research
program. Because of the urgency of establishing FTS, the importance of keep-
ing research closely linked to needs of small farmers, and the lack of mana-
gerial capability at AAU, the following arrangements have been agreed between
AAU, GOA, ICAR and GOI. Responsibility for administration and execution of
work on FTS would be with the Department of Agriculture, through the Adaptive
Trials Cell. The Cell, headed by a Joint Director of Agriculture (Adaptive
Trials), reporting directly to ADA (Extension), would be located at AAU,
Jorhat. The head of each FTS would report directly to JDA (Adaptive Trials).
AAU would be responsible for technical backup and provision of staff 1/. This
will ensure that AAU staff engaged principally in research spend substantial
periods working in the field. (AAU are currently considering a proposal which
would require such staff to spend at least three years at one or more sub-
stations before they could be considered for promotion).
1/   Since AAU pay scales are somewhat above the equivalent grades in the
Department of Agriculture, it is expected that some staff required
by AAU for the FTS would be recruited from the DOA. The remainder
would be recruited from the annual output of 100 new graduates from
AAU. If sufficient qualified candidates cannot be recruited, the
deficit would be met by deputation of qualified officers from the DOA.
(It is probable that the FTS would be staffed initially by DOA staff
and that these would be replaced by AAU recruited staff as these become
available).



ANNEX 3
Page 7
17.       Formulation and evaluation of FTS programs would involve responsi-
bilities at regional and state levels. At district level, a committee consist-
ing of the senior DAO of the region, senior Subject Matter Specialist, officer-
in-charge of the FTS and a leading local farmer would be established. DAO
would chair the committee and would be able to co-opt additional members.
Its principal function would be to review and formulate extension and field
trials programs and to submit proposals for ratification by the State level
Technical Committee. It would also be responsible for approving the release
into the region of new extension recommendations developed by FTS. The dis-
trict committee would meet at least six times a year.
18.       At state level the formulation of overall priorities, coordination,
and evaluation of FTS results would be the responsibility of a State Level
Technical Committee.  Its composition would be:
Director of Agriculture                               Chairman
Joint Director of Agriculture (Adaptive Trials)
Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension)
Director of Research, AAU
Director of Extension Education, AAU
Professor of Agronomy, AAU
Professor of Soil Science, AAU
Professor of Plant Pathology, AAU
Professor of Entomology, AAU
Professor of Farm Management, AAU
Joint Director of Agriculture (Rice and Wheat)
Joint Director of Agriculture (Jute)
Joint Director of Agriculture (Horticulture)
Joint Director of Agriculture (Pulses and Oilseeds)
Joint Director of Agriculture (Sugarcane)
This committee would meet at least twice a year and be serviced by an execu-
tive sub-committee consisting of the first five officers listed above and the
Director, ICAR Research Complex, Shillong. The sub-committee would meet six
times a year under the chairmanship of the Director of Agriculture and with
the Joint Director of Agriculture (Adaptive Trials) as member-Secretary. The
Joint Director of Agriculture would prepare work programs for the FTS after
discussion with the station chiefs and the Director of Research, AAU, and
would present them for consideration and approval by the executive sub-
committee. Chart 3, Annex 2 gives both the line management and information
flows for the program as a whole including the input from AAU research,
support for which is described in the next section.
C. Research at MAU
General
19.       The project would strengthen two main commodity oriented research
stations and one sub-station located at Titabar and Karimganj (for work on
rice) and at Shillongani (for work on jute, oilseeds, pulses and wheat).



ANNEX 3
Page 8
20.       The objectives of support provided to AAU are:
(i) to build up research capability at AAU in fields
of direct relevance to the extension component of the
project and which would ensure a flow of information,
results and materials into the FTS/Extension system
through the FTS cell at Jorhat;
(ii) to encourage a regular flow of information between AAU
and research units elsewhere (national or international)
to prevent duplication of work;
(iii) to ensure objective programming of AAU's research efforts
to meet the needs of production oriented field research,
requiring full participation of all relevant Departments
of AAU.
Programs
21.       Research programs would have both disciplinary and commodity
components in that each department of AAU would have its own specialized
program, for example, rice breeding, within an overall rice research program.
The latter would be designed to develop rice production systems for specific
agroecological situations and for specific growing periods within the wider
context of different cropping systems. Two main areas of work would be taken
up initially:
(i) the measurement of the effects of improvements in existing
practices without major changes in varieties, sowing dates,
or fertilizer applications, i.e., the benefits to be de-
rived from good husbandry;
(ii) the possibilities of changing cropping patterns (using
paddy and other crops) under alternative conditions:
(a) rainfall only (the most important situation);
(b) with supplementary irrigation;
(c) in flood-prone areas with and without irrigation.
Within this general framework, work would be carried out on:
(a) Cultivation Practices. Techniques which improve crop
productivity would be emphasized for study. These
would include land preparation, time of planting in
relation to rainfall patterns, spacing, alternative
farming systems and cropping patterns, soil amend-
ments (organic and inorganic) and pesticide use.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Improved water management practices and more effec-
tive utilization of residual moisture would also be
studied.
(b) Varietal Improvement. Plant breeding, screening,
identification and selection of varieties useful
to farmers would be intensified for factors rele-
vant to the different agroecological regions, seasons,
water levels, soil types and resistance to various
pests and diseases.
(c) Pest and Disease Control. Studies would be accel-
erated on pests and diseases which seriously affect
crop production in Assam. Particular emphasis
would be placed on rice pests, especially gall
midge but also stem borers, leaf hoppers, blast and
tungro virus. The epidemiology, prophylactic measures
for control in nursery beds and rice fields, chemical
control where necessary, and screening for resistant
-o or tolerant varieties would be undertaken in joint
programs by the entomologists, plant pathologists
and crop breeders at the stations.
(d) Economic Studies. Production economists at AAU
would evaluate the various cultivation practices,
alternative farming systems and cropping patterns
developed in the studies outlined above. The eco-
nomic impact of results vould be assessed before pass-
ing recommendations to the FTS cell for testing on FTS.
Project Components
22.      Civil Works.  The project would provide 103 new houses and would
repair and improve water and electricity supplies to 9 existing houses. Both
new and rehabilitated houses would be of standard low-cost Assamese type. The
provision of new offices, laboratories, glass and screen houses, verminproof
and airconditioned seed storage facilities would release existing old but
repairable buildings for use as rough stores, cattle barns or vehicle and
implement shelters. Fencing, domestic and irrigation water supplies, elec-
tricity installation, and general improvements to roads, drains and field
layout would also be provided. Details are in Annex 8 Tables 2-4.
23.        Equipment and Vehicles.    As specialists would need to work
outside their respective stations and would also be required to visit FTS (to
take part in experimental work and training courses) the project would provide
5 4-wheel drive vehicles. A minibus would also be provided at Titabar to
provide transport between the Jorhat campus and the main rice research station.
The project also provides equipment for use in the field and in laboratories.
Details are in Annex 8, Tables 2-4.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
24.         Staffing and Fellowships.  At the 3 stations to be developed,
Titabar, Karimganj and Shillongani, several sanctioned posts remain unfilled.
The project would provide 18 postgraduate fellowships to allow staff to be
trained to fill these vacant posts. A further 10 fellowships would help
train staff for new posts created under the project. All these posts would
be at the equivalent level of Assistant Professor (ASP) or above. Short-term
fellowships, for varying periods, would also be provided for study within
India. There are also a substantial number of vacancies at Senior Research
Assistant level but it seems likely that these would be filled by graduates
from AAU when sufficient living accommodation becomes available at research
stations. Salaries of the 46 incremental staff (17 professional and 29
ancillary) would be included. Details are at Annex 8, Table 2-4.
25.        Short-term Consultancies.  About 12 man-months of consultancy
services would be included to provide guidance in organization and management
of research programs and stations (suggested terms of reference are given
in Attachment 2).
26.       Other Operating Costs.  All incremental operating costs would be
included in the project. The estimated post-project recurrent costs would be
about 10-12% of the present total expenditure on all crop production research
(based on 1976 prices).
Project Costs and Phasing
27.       It is difficult to determine precisely the amount now being spent
annually on research on the major crops covered by this project. The mis-
sion estimated these (see Table 1) to be Rs 0.94 M, Rs 0.27 M , Rs 0.27 M and
Rs 0.06 M for rice, jute, oilseeds and pulses respectively. It is assumed
that GOA would maintain at least this level of expenditure plus incremental
costs as shown:



ANNEX 3
Page 11
University Research Costs
Titabar   Karimgan;  Shillongani   Total   %GT
--------------- Rs'000 ------------------
Civil Works                     3,004       1,003         2,672      6,699    46 /a
Station Development               524         178           468      1,170      8 /a
Equipment and Vehicles          1,111         309         1,030      2,350    16 Ia
Training and Consultancy
Services                        880        150         1,010       2,040    14
Establishment
(incremental) Costs          1,050         596           751       2,397    16 /b
6,469      2,256         5,931      14,656
Phasing of Expenditures at Research Stations (Rs'000)
----------------------Project Year -------------------
Station                           1         2         3         4       5      Total
Titabar                         1,623     2,868   1,236        370     372    6,469
K(arimganj                        647        926     344       177     162    2,256
Shillongani                     1,402     2,735   1,031        422     341    5,931
3,672     6,529   2,611    1,969       875   14,656
/a   Including 10% contingency.
/b   Including 10% contingency on operating costs only.
A full breakdown of costs together with supporting detailed schedules of ex-
penditure is given in Annex 8, Tables 2-4.
28.       Incremental annual salaries and operating costs would be about
Rs 0.69 million per annum compared with an estimated current total of Rs 1.55
million for 1976-7. This is in addition to the Rs 2.08 million annually for
field trial stations (para 16).
Organization and Management
29.       Agricultural research at AAU is the responsibility of the Director
of Research. He is currently assisted by a Research Advisory Committee drawn
mainly from within the University. This committee will shortly be replaced
by a Statutory Research Council with wider representation; in particular, the
Department of Agriculture of GOA would be strongly represented on the new
Council.



ANNEX 3
Page 12
30.       While the Research Council would decide on general lines of work
and allocation of resources according to priority needs, the Director of
Research will be responsible for formulation of research proposals to be
submitted to the Council. He would be assisted by technical sub-
committees on which all the departments of the University and the Depart-
ment of Agriculture (GOA) would be represented by technical specialists
both from research and extension. Details are being finalized. These com-
mittees would deal not only with research proposals arising from within the
departments of the University but also with proposals coming from the State
Level Technical Committee for Adaptive Trials (this latter committee could be
regarded as a technical subcommittee having special responsibility for the
program of FTS and for liaison with the departments within the University).
A senior and experienced research scientist, probably from ICAR or other
agricultural university, would be employed for about 12 months to assist with
formulation of research proposals and organization and management of research
programs and stations. Suggested terms of reference are given in Attachment 2.
31.       Two senior chief scientists would be appointed; they would be re-
sponsible for overall management (administrative and technical) of the AAU
research stations strengthened under the project. It is important that these
posts be filled by dynamic individuals with a high level of managerial as well
as technical skill. Proposed terms of reference are given in Attachment 3.



ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AAU Research Stations
1.        Section 33 (1) of the Assam University Act, 1969, provides for the
establishment of Agricultural Experimental and Research Stations under the
University, responsible for both fundamental and applied research, to be
carried out at Central Research Stations and Regional Research and Experi-
mental Stations. The Research and Experimental Stations of the State Depart-
ments of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, together with their staff and funds,
were also to be transferred to the AAU. The IDA Assam and Bihar Agreement
(Section 2.01) requires the State of Assam to transfer to AAU all its exist-
ing agricultural research institutions within six months from 10 November
1972, together with all related facilities.
2.        The University Research Proposals foresee the following organiza-
tion of facilities:
(a)  Central Research Stations:        Station                     Area
(i)  Jorhat                  Titabar Research Station
(rice)*                      53 ha
Borbheta Farm                   140 ha
Buralikson Sugar Cane            59 ha
Agricultural Chemistry,
Jorhat
Sugar Cane Farm, Jorhat
(Tea Research Station),
Jorhat
(ii)  Khanapara               Livestock Research                 8 ha
Livestock Breeding Farm          73 ha
Veterinary Faculty Field
Station, Nowgong area
(being sought)
Burnihat - citrus                20 ha
* To be strengthened under the project.



ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 2
(b) Regional Research and Experimental Stations, to serve both crops and
livestock:
District        Station            Main Activitiy        Area
(i)  Nowgong         Shillongani*       Jute                  42.5 ha
Oil Seed  )16.2
Pulses    )
Banana
Vegetables
Buffalo
Sub-station:      Rice                  25 ha
Raha (phasing
out)
(ii)  Kamrup          Kahikuchi          Fruit                 50 ha
Pineapple
Vegetables
Citrus
Coconut
Sub-station:      Coconut               28 ha
Kharua
(iii)   Cachar          GSTC Arunachal    Pineapple
Sugar cane
Sub-station*      Rice                  32 ha
Karimganj
(iv)  Mikir Hills     Diphu              Hill crops             6 ha
and North       (18 ha occupied)  Cotton section        (24 ha)
Cachar
(v)  Dibrugarh       Tinsukia           Citrus
*    To be strengthened under the project.



ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suggested Terms of Reference for the Research Consultant
(Organization and Management) at AAU
1.        The consultant will study requirements of the restructuring of
research policy - formulation process at AAU. He will advise the Vice-
Chancellor on procedures by which Heads of Departments at AAU may make maxi-
mum contribution to the overall program; how Departmental efforts may best be
directed towards making effective contributions to production-oriented research
on the University's field stations and, conversely, how existing research staff
may be fully integrated into the appropriate Departments.
2.        He will also work with the Director of Research to evolve work
programs for research stations supported under the project. The objec-
tives will be improving traditional crop practices and defining changes in
traditional practices made possible by recent technological advances, partic-
ularly those concerned with plant breeding.
3.        The consultant will advise on how to obtain and use available expe-
rimental results to avoid duplication. He will advise in defining the attri-
butes of varieties which could suit traditional and experimental situations
encountered in Assam, and on the agro-ecological data needed for the programs
of varietal adaptation, pest and disease avoidance and control. His work would
emphasize the methodology and organization of programs rather than their detail.
4.        To ensure support for the FTS/Extension Program, he will advise on
means of bringing problems defined by the extension service to the notice of
research staff at AAU and how these problems may be divided into components
suitable for experimental investigation.
5.        He would also ensure that the emphasis on production-oriented re-
search not be allowed to distract from essential fundamental research; e.g.,
the dynamics of insect populations under changing cropping patterns and the
response surfaces of crops to plant nutrients when applied in factorial
combinations.
Qualifications
6.        Wide experience in research organization and management is necessary
both in the laboratory and at the field stations level. It would also be a
major advantage if the consultant. was experienced in rice research under vary-
ing soil and climatic conditions.



ANNEX 3
Attachment 3
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suggested Terms of Reference for Posts of Chief Scientist
at Titabar and Shillongani 1/
1.        Under the direction of the Director of Research, the Chief Scien-
tist would be responsible for formulation and execution of the rice research
program. He will be assisted by a full complement of staff at the station at
Titabar and the substation at Karimganj, staff of field trials stations and
officers of the Department of Agriculture. His prime responsibilities will
be to determine precisely what extra data and/or new materials are needed for
the improvement of rice production throughout the State, and to formulate
programs to fill these needs. It is expected that he would work closely with
Departmental Staff of AAU, especially those engaged in climatology and soil
science, in defining precisely the different agro-ecological conditions under
which rice is grown in Assam. He will ensure that research results are made
freely available and tested at the field trials stations.
2.        To ensure relevance of research programs to production situations,
the Chief Scientist will need to analyze and break down complex situations
into specific topics for research and formulate results into acceptable and
economically viable production packages.
3.        In particular, he must consider (i), means for improving yields
of rice grown by traditional methods (especially sowing and planting dates)
and (ii), what changes are possible in traditional farm systems given the
wide range of varieties with defined attributes that are now available on
an international basis.
Qualifications
4.        The minimum requirement for this post is a Doctorate level quali-
fication with wide experience, preferably in the adaption of varieties to
different ecological conditions. Considerable managerial ability will be
needed and should be given considerable weight in candidate selection.
1/   Terms of reference are for chief scientist at the Rice Station.  With
appropriate modifications these would be suitable for the chief
scientist on the Jute, Oilseeds and Pulses Station.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research Posts (Sanctioned and Vacant) with Budget Allocations
for Crop Research.AAU and Joint AAU/ICAR Funding, 1976-77_Y
Salaries
and        Budget Allocations
Posts Sanctioned          Posts Vacant      Establish-                  Non-
ASPi'         SRA3/        ASP       SRA        ment      Recurrent        s /Recurreat   Total
------    (000 Rs)-----------
AAU
Rice, JorhatlTitabor                 4       12                 2         7          230          105         -          335
Rice, Roha                           1         3                1         3           62           20         -           82
Rice, Karimganj                      1         1                -         1           51           30         6           87
Sugarcane, Jorhat                    1        4                 -         1           33           35         -           68
Sugarcane, Jorhat                    -         1 (equiv)        -         -          107           67         -          174
Mycology                             1         4                -         3           78            6         2           86
Entomology                           1        4                 -         1           93            8         -          101
Agricultural Chemistry               2         4                -         1          178           13         -          191
Crops Research/Crop Weather          2         1                -         1          151           46         -          197
Simple Fertilizer Trials             1        5                 -         4          212           20         -          232
Coconut, Kahikuchi                   1        1                 -         -           40           17         5           62
Citrus, Gurnihat                     -         1                -         -           26            1         -           27
Fruit and Vegetable, Kahikuchi    4            3                1         1          119           97        10          226
Vegetables, Kahikuchi                -        1                 -         1           18            -         -           18
Exot. Farm, Karimganj                -        1 (equiv)         -         -           27            -         _           66
Rice, Expt. Farm, Titabar            -        1 (equiv)         -         -           31           88         3          122
Headquarter Staff                    1        1                 -         -           12            -         -           12
Coconut, Karua                       1        2                 1         1           31           24         -           55
Jute, Shillongani (with
Reg. Research Station)            1         4                 1         3         142            26         -          168
Pulse and Oilseeds Project           1        2                 1         2           40           42         -           82
Agricultural Engineering             2        -                 1         -           71           17         -           88
Regional Diphu                       2         4                1         2          107           34         6          147
Subtotal                                                                                                2,626
AAU/ICAR
Water Management                     3         2                1         1           73           50        30          153
Jute, Shillongani                    4        2                 2         1           85           20         -          105
Oilseeds, Shillongani                1        2                 -        42           40           12         -           52
Rice Improvement                     8        -                 2         -          123           30         5          158
Model Agronomic Exp.                 1        -                 -         -           38           25         -           63
HYV (Rice) Farmers' Fields           1        -                 1         _           72           22         -           94
Headquarter Staff                    3        -                 2         -           13            2         -           15
Vegetable Improvement                2        2                 2         2           75           35         -          110
Fruits (Pineapple)                   4        3                 2         3           95            8         -          103
Tuber Crops                          1         1                -         1           41            7         -           48
Crown Rot (Coconuts)                 1        -                 1         -           15            4         -           19
Headquarter (Agri. Chemistry)        3        -                 -         -           50           30         -           80
Maize Improvement                    1         2                -         -           44            8         -           52
Pulse Improvement                    4        4                 1         2           74           30         -          104
Potato Improvement                   4        2                 1         2           34            4         1           39
Soyabean Improvement                 2        1                 -         1           27            3         -           30
'Wheat Improvement                   1         1                -         -           26           10        25           61
Subtotal              _                          _         _ -                                          1,286
TOTALS                68       82                24        46    -2,784          1,015         93       3,912
1/ Source:  Research Budget of AAU for 1976-77:                       2/ Assistant and Senior Professors
3/ Senior Research Assistant
Research directly on rice('000)        944              4/ Includes daily wages estimated at 400,000 Rs
jute            273
oilseeds and                              Salaries and establishment    71% 
pulses        268                       Other                            29%   of Total
wheat            61



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing and Incremental Staffing of the
Rice Research Station, Titabar_!
Incre-
Sanctioned Vacancies2/   mental2!      Total
Senior Professional Staff             5          2                         6
Junior Professional Staff             8          3            -            8
Senior Research Assistants          165/        10            -           16
Support Staff:  Field               17           2            2           19
Laboratory           1          -            8            9
Office and Other Staff               15          -            5           20
62         17           16           78
1/ Staffing for the Karimganj rice research station which may be consid-
ered as a regional sub-station is given in Tables 4 and 5.
2/ All vacancies to be filled by end of year 2.
3/ All additional staff to be hired by end of year 3.
4/  Chief scientist
5/ Includes farm manager.



ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staffing of the Rice Research Station,
Titabar at Full Development
Senior
1/         2/   Research
Professional Staff                          Senior-    Junior-   Assistants
Chief Scientist (Head of Station)            1                        i
Genetics and Plant Breeding                  1           2            4
Agronomy                                     1           1            2
Entomology                                   1           1            2
Pathology                                    1           1            2
Soil Science                                 1                        1
Microbiology                                             1            1
Plant Pysiology                                          1            1
Assistant Statistician                                   1            1
Farm Manager                                                          1
6          8           16
Supporting Staff: Field, Laboratory
and Office                                              Number
Assistant Farm Manager                                   1
Field Assistants                                        16
Laboratory Assistants                                    9
Laboratory Attendants                                    5
Stenographers                                            2
Tractor Operators                                        3
Bus Driver                                               1
Others                                                  11
48
1/ Associate and Full Professor.
2/ Assistant Professor.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing and Incremental Staffing of the
Rice Research Station, Karimgan;
Sanctioned Vacancies Incremental-/   Total
Senior Professional Staff              -          -            1            1
Junior Professional Staff                          -           3            4
Senior Research Assistants             1          -            5            6
(farm manager)
Supporting Staff:  Field               4          -            3            7
Laboratory         -          -            3            3
Office and Other Staff                10          -            2           12
16          -           17           33
1/ The one senior post is intended for the head of the station. The other
posts are to be filled by the end of year 2.



ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staffing of the Rice Research Station,
Karimganj at Full Development
Senior
1/          2/   Research
Professional Staff                          Senior-    Junior-   Assistants
Plant Breeding (Head of Station)             1            _            1
Agronomy                                                  1            1
Pathology                                                 1            1
Entomology                                                1            1
Chemist                                                   1            1
(Farm Manager)                                             -           1
1           4            6
Supporting Staff: Field, Laboratory
and Office                                               Number
Assistant Farm Manager                                    1
Field Assistants                                          7
Laboratory Assistants                                     3
Tractor Operators                                         2
Stenographer                                              1
Others                                                    8
22
1/ Associate and Full Professor.
2/ Assistant Professor.



ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing and Incremental Staffing of Jute, Oilseeds
and Pulses Research Station at Shillongani 1/
2/ Vaca      Incre-
Jute and Allied Fibers                Sanctioned-   cies-   mental        Total
Senior Professional Staff                2          2          1          3
Junior Professional Staff                3          1          1          4
Senior Research Assistants               6          4                     6
Supporting Staff:  Field                 6                                6
Laboratory           2                     6          8
Office and Other Staff                  23                               23
Subtotal                           42          7         8          50
Oilseeds and Pulses (O&P)                0   p      0   p      0   p     0   p
Senior Professional Staff              1   1      -   -     -   -      1   1
Junior Professional Staff              2   4      -   1      1   1     3   5
Senior Research Assistants             4   5      4   3     1   1      5   6
Supporting Staff:  Field      )        Not possible to as-   1           1
Laboratory)        sess since staff
Office and Other Staff         )       scattered on several
locations. All
Shillongani support
staff included under
Jute.
Subtotal                          7  10     4   4        5       10  12
Total                              59         15        13         72
Wheat
One junior agronomist would be stationed at this Regional Center but would
not add to incremental costs.
1/  Currently two adjacent stations  being combined into one Regional Station.
2/ It is assumed that staff now working at Jorhat on pulses and soyabeans
will be moved to Shillongani when adequate facilities are available.
3/ All vacancies to be filled by end of year 2.



ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staffing of the Regional Research Center, Shillongani
(Jute, Oilseeds and Pulses) at Full Development for Those Crops
Senior
1/              2'       Research
Senior-         Junior-'      Assistants
Professional Staff -                    J          p    j    0    P    J    0    P
Chief Scientist (Head of Station)   1    -    -    -    -    -    1    -    -
Genetics and Plant Breeding           1    1    1    1    1    1    2    2    2
Agronomy                              1    -    -    -    1    2    1    1    2
Entomology                            -    -    -    1    -    1    1    -    1
Pathology                             -    -    -    1    -    1    1    -    1
Chemistry (Soil Science)              -                     -    -    1    _    _
Statistician                          -    -    -    -    1    -    -    1    -
Farm Manager                                                          Whole Farm 1
5              12              18
Supporting Staff: Field,
Laboratory and Office                                      Number
Assistant Farm Manager                                      1
Field Assistants                                          14
Laboratory Assistants                                       6
Laboratory Attendants                                      6
Stenographers                                              2
Tractor Operators                                          2
Others                                                     6
37
1/ Associate and Full Professor.
2/ Assistant Professor.
3/ Jute (J), Oilseeds (0), and Pulses (P).



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundwater Development
A. Background
1.        The State of Assam  is best identified as that portion of the
Brahmaputra valley which passes through India. About 850 km in length from
East to West and about 100 km wide from North to South, the valley has been
formed and remains dominated by one of the world's largest rivers. Of approx-
imately 20,000 sq km of land under rice, the most important food crop, about
18,000 sq km are in the flood plain of the Brahmaputra. Most of the remaining
area planted to rice is in Cachar District, adjacent to Bangladesh, in the south
of Assam. Each year, the river, draining most of Tibet and the entire Northern
slope of the Himalayas, carries about 6 billion cubic meters of water to the
Bay of Bengal. Contained in this quantity of water are about 50 million cubic
meters of sediment (enough to cover 1,000 sq km to a depth of 5 cm). Each
year as winter passes the snows from the Himalayas melt and, augmented by
torrential monsoon rainfall, cause the river to swell to ten times its normal
winter flow. This quantity of water, requiring more room to pass, spreads out
across the valley floor. Over millions of years, this process has built up
the valley floor with layers of sand, silt and gravel until there are now
alluvial deposits, over 50,000 sq km, and more than 1,000 m thick. The river
and the rainfall keep these deposits effectively saturated; they contain at
least 5,000 billion cubic meters of water, about thirty times the full capa-
city of the Bratsk Reservoir (USSR), the biggest man-made lake in the world.
About 2 billion cubic meters of this quantity are within 5 m of the surface,
easily reached by shallow wells.
2.        The need for irrigation in this apparently well-watered land stems
from three considerations:
(i) Although average rainfall is high (over 2,000 mm in
most places) it occurs during a 7-month monsoon season,
leaving 5 months which are often too dry to sustain
reliable crop growth without supplemental water;
(ii) Even during the monsoon, but particularly at the beginning
and the end, there are dry spells of sufficient duration
to limit crop growth and yields or to cause planting to be
delayed so that crops are prevented from taking full advantage
of subsequent rain, which constrains cropping intensity; and



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(iii) Annual flooding rules out a monsoon crop on about 250,000 ha
and makes it risky on a further 150,000 ha. The only
reliable way to ensure a food crop each year for farmers in
these areas is to provide irrigation, which can permit them
to plant early enough to avoid the flood risk or to plant
later and mature their crop in the dry season.
3.        Irrigation water requirements for the principal crops are shown in
Table 1.  Because these requirements occur mainly during months of relatively
low temperature and low levels of solar radiation, they are small. However,
once water is needed it must be applied just as rapidly in Assam as elsewhere
in India. What differentiates Assam from other states is that irrigation
is needed less often. This low utilization makes financial justification of
irrigation more difficult, particularly in flood-prone areas unless some value
is also given to the "insurance" which the farmer obtains against the risks of
temporary drought or flood.
4.        The cultivated area of Assam, excluding tea gardens, totals some
2.2 million ha. Of this about 1.8 million overlie the saturated alluvial
deposits of the Brahmaputra. This area supports a population of about 12.5
million people, of whom about 1.15 million live in urban areas, leaving about
11.3 million (some 2 million families) working the land. The average land
holding is about 1.5 ha, but is fragmented so that the average parcel culti-
vated is less than 0.5 ha. In Annex 13, it is shown that a minimum command
area of about 2 ha in flood free areas and 3 ha in flood-prone areas is neces-
sary for a tubewell installation to be a financially viable alternative to
rainfed development. Thus, only about 325,000 (or 15%) of the farmers are
justified in owning a power pumped shallow tubewell of the current design
without forming a group, or selling water to neighbors. These larger farmers
do, however, operate 50% of the land. Other constraints to groundwater de-
velopment in the past have included:
(i) lack of knowledge of techniques, benefits and avail-
ability of tubewells, partly because of poor extension
services;
(ii) difficulties of group Eormation and previous reluctance
of commercial banks to get involved with group loans;
(iii) reluctance to innovate or take risks; and
(iv) lack of priority in programs of the Government
(Irrigation Department) and financial institutions.
5.        The Irrigation Department of Assam has a staff of over 3,000 includ-
ing about 750 graduate engineers, and a similar number of diploma holders.
Organizational and financial perspective is provided by the following table,
which shows annual expenditures of the Department from 1972/73, and budget
projections to 1979/80. Most staff and budget have to date been involved in



ANNEX 4
Page 3
flood protection and surface irrigation works. Capacity to observe, analyze
and monitor groundwater development is severely limited, and additional staff
at the field level would be required to implement any major program of well
construction.
--------------------- Department Budget ----------------
Overhead
Year          New Works        Maintenance          and Adm.        Total
--------------------- (Rs. Million) --------------------
72/73           36.1              5.5                 6.8           47.6
73/74           43.7              6.0                 8.7           57.4
74/75           68.3              6.5                11.4           86.2
75/76           70.6             10.0                13.7           94.3
76/77           80.0             10.3                19.9          110.2
77/78          115.0             12.0                22.0          149.0
78/79          125.0             14.0                24.0          163.0
79/80          140.0             16.5                26.0          182.5
6.        As a result of the factors listed above, groundwater development
to date has been insignificant; there are only about 30 deep wells and about
1,400 shallow wells together irrigating substantially less than 5,000 ha.
Government strategy was previously more concerned with flood protection than
irrigation, and this together with limited opportunities for easy development
of water sources, has also constrained surface irrigation development. In-
cluding surface irrigation, less than 150,000 ha are presently irrigated
throughout the State.
B. Groundwater Hydrology
7.        Assam comprises three major physiographic areas that are also dis-
tinct hydrologic areas. These are: (a) the Brahmaputra Valley, which is
part of the major hydrologic province of the Ganges-Brahmaputra region of
alluvial flood plains; (b) the foothills region of the Himalayan Mountains
lying north of the Brahmaputra Valley; and (c) the North Cachar and Mikir
Hills, and the Barak Valley lying south of the Brahamaputra Valley. The
relatively small Barak Valley watershed is in the extreme southwest of the
State, and its groundwater potential is not evaluated here. The administrative
districts of the State having high potential for groundwater development from
shallow wells are in the active flood plains of the Brahmaputra River and in
the low-lying areas of the valley floor, which are underlain by fine-grained
alluvial deposits (see para 1) to depths of over 1500 m.
8.        The aquifer materials of the upper 100 M (usually below 5 M of sur-
face clay) consist of fine to coarse sand. Their specific yield (the ratio
of extractable water per unit volume of aquifer) is estimated at 15 percent.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Groundwater storage in a typical saturated sectiSn five meters thick over an
area of one hectare would thus be about 7.5 x 10 cubic meters. In a satu-
rated section of alluvium two meters thick, found throughout the valley at
depths less than five meters, storage of water rer hectare, assuming a lower
specific yield of 10 percent, is about 0.2 x 10  cubic meters.  This is I ore
than half the estimated dry season net crop requirement (about 0.36 x 10 cubic
meters per hectare of irrigated land).
9.        The water table lies at shallow depths on the flood plain even
during the dry premonsoon period, varying from zero depth to two to five meters
below the land surface. Depth of water on higher terraces may be as much as
20 meters but is generally less than 15 meters. Although water table gradients
are generally towards the streams and down-valley to the west, they are vir-
tually flat during the pre-monsoon period. Seasonal fluctuation of the water
table is about two meters in the lowland, increasing to 10 m or more on higher
terraces near the mountains. Recharge of the aquifer occurs during the mon-
soon season from direct infiltration of rainfall, deep percolation of flood
water, and seepage from streams during peak runoff periods. This recharge
is completed early in the monsoon season and large volumes of water are sub-
sequently rejected by the aquifer. Natural groundwater discharge during the
dry season is by evaporation, transpiration and the slow seepage that sus-
tains base flows of the perennial streams.
Groundwater Potential
10.       The potential for groundwater development throughout the Brahmaputra
Valley is high. Rainfall is far in excess of evapotranspiration and potential
recharge during the monsoon season (see Table 2). Furthermore, the aquifer
materials are highly permeable, the water table is near the surface, and draw-
down in response to pumping is minimal. In general, as much as 150 m /hr can
be pumped from deep wells with drawdown uSually less than five meters. Draw-
down in shallow wells yielding about 35 m /hr is typically about one meter.
Throughout the lowland, wells that penetrate 15 to 150 mete5s below land sur-
face can pump water by suction lift at rates of 35 to 350 m /hr. Depths of
individual wells depend upon local variations in the alluvium, and the thick-
ness of surficial clay and silt. Typically this layer is less than five
meters thick, though it increases to 20 meters or more in some areas.
11.       Because the groundwater gradient is virtually flat, water extracted
during the dry season is largely from storage, and without well-spacing guide-
lines, excessive drawdown could occur. A water table decline of more than
one meter would cause a substantial loss of efficiency or even loss of supply
at suction-pumped wells in some areas. On the basis of a specific yield of
10 percent (sediments close to the surface generally have lower storage capa-
cities than deeper aquifers) and zn assumed drawdown of one meter, spread e enly
over an idealized irrigated area (100% efficiency of application at 4,000 m /ha
per pumping season of 120 days) conservative well spacing guidelines are shown
below:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Area over which         Radius, area of
Pumping rate    Irrigated area        water table must           influence
(m /hr)             (ha)         drawdown one m (ha)              (m)
3.0                0.4                    2                      80
30.0                5                     20                     250
300.0               50                    200                     800
Deep tubewells with turbine pumps could tolerate considerably more drawdown,
and isolated instances of shallow well clusters would not cause problems of
interference. However, as larger areas become intensively irrigated from the
groundwater reservoir, patterns of well development -- location, spacing and
rates of discharge -- should be carefully monitored for optimum utilization
of resources (para 14). In the meantime, considering that the present area
irrigated by groundwater is less than two percent of the State's total cul-
tivated land, the above conservative criteria may be applied to shallow well
spacing, with development and comprehensive studies proceeding concurrently.
C. The Program
Description
12.       The project would support a groundwater development program designed
to lay the basis for future exploitation of Assam's vast groundwater resources.
It would irrigate 52,500 ha from 15,000 small (3.5 H.P.) pumpsets. The majority
of these (12,500) would be installed on 75 mm dia. wells, averaging 30 m deep
and irrigating about 3.3 ha each. The remaining 2,500 units would be used for
pumping directly from streams and ponds, and would irrigate about 4 ha each.
The groundwater component would be confined to three areas, comprising 20
development blocks, mainly in the Central and Western parts of the Brahmaputra
Valley (Table 3 and Map IBRD 12626). Covering a gross area of about 6,400 sq
km (2,500 sq miles), or 10% of the plains area in the valley, this represents
a sufficient degree of concentration to simplify administration. Because only
52,500 ha would be irrigated, the risk of interference between wells would be
negligible.
13.       Due to limited experience with groundwater development programs in
Assam, the Irrigation Department would be strengthened to act as organizing
and supervising agency for the program. This would entail assisting farmers
with processing of loan applications; supervising supply of pumpsets and down-
well components; establishing statewide unit prices for drilling, installa-
tion, development and testing through annual competitive bidding exercises;



ANNEX 4
Page 6
organizing the drilling program and assisting contractors (who are generally
without vehicles) by transporting drilling equipment from site to site in
tractordrawn trailers; supervising drilling and testing activities (as well
as commissioning); and supervising operator training and initial maintenance
activities by pumpset suppliers. The project would therefore provide:
(i) incremental staff at the sub-divisional level as follows:
(a) 20 Sub-engineers to assist with collection and
processing of loan applications;
(b) 20 Sub-engineers and 50 sectional assistants/
mechanics to supervise tubewell installation and
testing, and ensure provision of maintenance serv-
ices by pumpset suppliers;
(c)  10 water management officers to advise farmers
on land levelling, field channel construction
and other engineering aspects of efficient on-
farm water utilization (including drainage); and
(d) 20 draftsmen to prepare topographic and cadastral
maps in the 20 block project area. As the tube-
well program proceeds they would update maps,
showing new tubewells and areas irrigated.
No new senior staff would be required at Headquarters or
Divisional levels. The Groundwater Monitoring and Tech-
nology Development cells to be created would be set up
using existing staff (paras 16-18).
(ii) vehicles, survey and drafting, and laboratory equipment.
(iii) Irrigation Service Centers in two blocks comprising an
office for block level irrigation overseers and facili-
ties for pumpset repairs and spare parts storage. In
the remaining blocks existing facilities are adequate;
and
(iv) a training program comprising a series of short courses
on irrigation and hydrology for lower level staff of the
Irrigation Department.
14.       Other project components would include:
(i) installation of a valley-wide groundwater observation network
and execution of pumping tests on deep and shallow tubewells
(Attachment 1);



ANNEX 4
Page 7
(ii)  a mapping program designed to provide a clean, up-to-date set
cadastral maps (16" = mile) for each block, and single sheet
4" - 1 mile Irrigation Development (topographic) maps with
1 ft contours of each block (20 draftsmen to be provided
under the project for this purpose) (Attachment 1); and
(iii)  installation, field testing and demonstration of a variety
of alternative and more appropriate approaches to groundwater
development suitable to smaller farms (Attachment 2). This
would include:
-    developing small-diameter well points with either bamboo
or thin-walled corrugated PVC screens;
-    using small (1 HP) electric pumps where power is
available;
-    developing improved manual pumps for very small farms;
-    developing a custom service scheme using mobile pumps
serving several wells.
Cost Estimates
15.       Cost estimates are summarized below (details in Annex 9):
(Rs '000)
Shallow Tubewells and Low
Lift Pumps /a                        115,635
Strengthening Irrigation Dept.
(Including Mapping, Monitoring
and Survey Program)
Civil Works                              762
Vehicles and Equipment                   809
Training                                 115
Incremental Salaries, etc.             3,329
Operating Costs                        1,060
Sub-Total                        6,075
Technology Development                   630
Total (without contingencies)    122,340
/a   Pumpsets and tubewells would be financed
by commercial and cooperative banks; ARDC
refinance would be available to eligible
institutions.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
The Irrigation Department's incremental salary and overhead costs would be
about Rs 0.2 million per year at full development. This is less than 1% of
the existing Departmental Budget for overhead and administration (para 5).
D. Organization and Management
16.       The Custom Service/Groundwater Wing of the Irrigation Department
under an Additional Chief Engineer (ACE) would be responsible for the
irrigation component of the project. The Department's staffing would be
strengthened (para 13 and 14) to enable it to:
(a) regulate the overall program by preparing and main-
taining irrigation maps of blocks indicating areas
believed to be suitable, marking locations of wells
installed and approving locations of new wells;
(b) supervise supply of down well components by equipment
suppliers (G.I. pipe or bamboo and/or PVC screens
and casings);
(c) supervise the supply of pumpsets and maintenance
services to be provided by suppliers;and
(d) plan and supervise installation, including pre-season
establishment of rates by competitive bidding between
local well-drillers, supervision of installation,
recording sub-surface materials encountered, testing
performance and certifying completion of wells.
17.       In addition, special cells would be established to administer the
Groundwater Monitoring and Technology Development Programs. The Monitoring
Cell would be set up under an Executive Engineer responsible to the ACE and
would:
(i) compile and analyze water level data collected by field
monitoring teams and pumping test crews; this would in-
clude collection of data on rainfall, local geology, soils,
topography etc;
(ii) maintain complete records of progress of the tubewell
program including number of wells, density of wells,
and area irrigated;
(iii) plan and coordinate the activities of the monitoring
and testing teams.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
18.       The Technology Development Cell would be smaller and would be
headed by a sub-engineer. It would be responsible for identifying areas
and farmers willing to test alternative technologies, installing and orga-
nizing the technology, and collecting, monitoring and evaluating results.
Both cells would be manned with existing staff. Some junior technical and
support staff will be provided (Annex 9, Table 3).
19.       The Agriculture Department would be responsible for motivating
farmers through the extension service. Coordination between agencies in-
volved, in particular irrigation, agriculture and credit institutions, would
be enhanced as follows:
(i) At the state level by the establishment of a State Level
Coordinating Committee for Groundwater Development under
the chairmanship of the Agricultural Production Commis-
sioner. Other members would comprise: Secretaries:
Irrigation, Agriculture and Cooperation, Project Manager,
the Chief Engineers--Irrigation and Assam State Electricity
Board (ASEB)--, Director of Agriculture, Registrar of
Cooperatives, representatives of ARDC and concerned
banks, and the Additional Chief Engineer in charge of
the program. This Committee would meet at least four
times annually to establish overall policies, set annual
targets and ensure coordination between all involved
agencies. The first meeting of the year, before the
start of the drilling season, would entail a review of
the program submitted by the Additional Chief Engineer.
Following approval it would issue directives to all
agencies regarding the responsibilities to be discharged
by them. There would be two mid-season and a final
end-of-season review of the achievements of each agency.
Policy problems encountered by the credit institutions
would be referred to the existing State Level Coordinating
Committee for Institutional Credit or the State level
Committee on Banking, as appropriate.
(ii) At the district level, through the existing District
Level Coordinating Committee system under the chairman-
ship of the Deputy Commissioner. To review progress, re-
solve conflicts and ensure achievement of installation
targets a sub-committee would be convened including,
inter alia, the Executive Engineer (Irrigation), the
SDO (Irrigation), the DAO, BDO and Assistant Registrars
of Cooperatives for the blocks concerned, managers of
financing banks and representatives of the input supply
agencies. They would meet at least once a month between
October and March.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
(iii)   At the block level, by setting up implementation teams
comprising the Block Development Officer, a sub-engineer
from the Irrigation Department, a junior inspector of
cooperatives and with the part-time participation of the
AEO. Responding to demands generated by the motivational
efforts of the agricultural extension service, implementa-
tion teams would assist with collection and processing of
applications for tubewell installations, prepare supporting
documentation and advise farmers on engineering aspects of
efficient water use (see para 13, (i), (c). Teams would
meet weekly on the same day at a fixed time to process
collected loan applications with authorized representatives
of the financing banks concerned and the Revenue Department.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Observation Network, Pumping Tests and Mapping Program
A. Observation Network
1.        To set up a primary observation network for groundwater investiga-
tions to accurately assess groundwater potential, the Brahmaputra Valley
would be covered by a rectangular grid of 220 observation holes 16 km apart,
over an area about 650 km long and 80 km wide.
2.        Observation wells would be drilled (150 mm dia.) to a depth of
50 m, then completed to 20 m with 18 m of plain 40 mm plastic pipe and 2 m
of slotted 40 mm pipe. The hole below, and the annular spacing around the
casing, would be gravel packed.
3.        During drilling, the following basic data and materials would be
collected:
a)   Samples of materials penetrated at 3 m intervals (sample
size about 1 kg);
b)   Detailed description of materials collected:  color,
general composition, grain size (cards with sand sizes
for comparison should be available), sorting, compaction.
c)   Log of drilling time vs. depth of penetration.
d)   Static water level measurements at 3 m intervals (measure-
ments would be made with a steel tape and should be
accurate to 0.3 cm).
e)   Upon completion of the well a hand pump would be installed
and the well would be pumped for 3 minutes, after which a
water sample of one litre would be collected.
4.        After drilling, water level measurements would be made on the first
and third week of each month for two years. Data would also be collected on
nearby wells, if any, including estimated distance to such wells and estimated
discharge.



ANNEX 4
Attachment I
Page 2
5.        The collection of the data and materials described above would
permit:
a)   sieve analysis of each collected sample;
b)   preparation of lithologic sections and fence diagrams
at 16 km intervals, across and along the valley;
c)   tabulation of water level data and preparation of
annual hydrographs; and
d)   correlation of well hydrographs with rainfall records.
B. Pumping Tests
Existing Deep Wells
6.        To determine deep aquifer characteristics, pumping tests would be
carried out on existing wells capable of pumping at least 150 m /hr continuously
for 60 hours. Periodic water-level measurements would be taken at a piezometer
tube located within 2 m of the pumping well, and at 8 other observation piezo-
meters installed for this purpose. The well would be equipped with a 150 m
discharge meter designed for instantaneous and cumulative measurements. Pumped
water would be transmitted by a pipe or lined channel about 250 m beyond the
area of the test to avoid recirculation.
7.        Aquifer characteristics (transmissivity and storage coefficient)
would be determined using standard formulas. Well spacing requirements and
aquifer yield projections would then be calculated.
Shallow Wells
8.        Two types of pumping tests would be conducted on shallow wells to
determine water storage capacity of the shallow aquifers. Special tests are
required because the volume of shallow material dewatered in conventional
pumping tests on a single shallow well is too small to provide an accurate
indication of storage characteristics of material between 3 and 5 m from the
surface.
9.        These special pumping tests would require installation of four
standard shallow wells, on She corners of a 100 m square, whch would be
pumped continuously at 30 m /hr for 60 hours. Periodic water-level measure-
ments would be taken at an array of piezometers both inside and outside the
square, and the four pumps would be equipped with meters to measure instan-
taneous and cumulative discharge. Pipes would be provided to convey pumped
water beyond the area of influence of the test.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 3
10.       The quantity of water pumped would then be compared with the volume
of material dewatered to obtain an indication of storage characteristics. The
data obtained would also be entered in existing mathematical models for more
sophisticated analysis, projection of results and computation of hypothetical
stresses on the aquifer.
11.       Following the special tests, conventional pumping tests would be
run on one of the four shallow wells (30 m /hr for 60 hours), while periodic
water-level measurements would be made at selected piezometers. The results
of these tests would then be compared to those of the special tests. If the
two showed close correlation this would indicate that, in future, results of
tests on single wells could be used to predict shallow storage coefficients
with more confidence than at present.
C. Mapping Program
12.       Good maps are essential to groundwater and irrigation development.
In order to monitor effectively tubewell installation, it is essential to
know precisely, the location of each well proposed or installed. Without a
complete system of trigonometric survey beacons and/or a professional loca-
tion survey to locate each individual well, well positions have to be deter-
mined relative to plots of land on which they are installed. The basis
for this would be existing cadastral maps (at 16" = 1 mile) prepared for
revenue collection. For planning, and to record spatial characteristics of
the drawdown patterns which will develop as the wells are put into operation,
smaller scale maps, showing at least one block per sheet, with roads, towns,
villages, power lines and topography, are also required. Again, much of the
necessary survey data is available.
13.       Most of the mapping program proposed under the present project can,
therefore, be obtained from existing maps; only a limited amount of field-
work will be required to produce:
(a) a clean, up-to-date set of cadastral maps (16" = 1 mile)
for each block; and
(b) a single sheet 4" = 1 mile Irrigation Development
(topographic) map, with 1 ft contours, for each block.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Field Trials and Demonstrations of Alternative Approaches
A.   Small Electric Pumpsets
1.        Rural electrification is now available in about 8.5% of the valley
area. It is cheaper and more efficient to distribute electricity than water.
Trials would be made in selected areas with electrification to determine the
feasibility of installing bamboo or small diameter plastic wellpoints on
small fragments of land. Because poles on mainlines are spaced at 50 m
intervals, and on service lines at 30 m intervals, the installation of an
electrical network covering any block of agricultural and results in one pole
in nearly every cultivated parcel. If wellpoints were sunk near the electric
poles, it would be possible to mount a meter and outlet socket on each pole
for the farmer to plug in a portable electric pumpset.
2.        The costs to the State Electricity Board of this approach on a
20 ha block would be:
Rs
Main line (3 phase 440 V) with concrete
poles at 50 m intervals, 450 m at Rs 26/-            11,700
Service lines (2 phase 220 V) with concrete
poles at 30 m intervals, 1670 at Rs 15/-             25,050
Meters, 35 at Rs 50/-                                12750
38,500
4.        The costs of the irrigation equipment would be:
35 Wellpoints at Rs 600/-                            21,000
10 1 HP Electric Pumpsets at Rs 2400/-               24,000
45,000
5.        The main advantages of this approach lie in more efficient water
use, minimal maintenance requirements, no fuel supply problem, and no neces-
sity for cooperation or joint ownership of facilities. The total investment,
Rs 83,500, or Rs 4,175/ha, in these pilot installations would be higher than



ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 2
that currently encountered for standard shallow tubewells, though lower
than for deep tubewells. With additional experience and mass production the
unit cost could be reduced to Rs 150 - Rs 600. Annual costs to the farmer
would be:
Cost to Average Farmer
(Operating 1.5 ha in 3 fragments)
Capital Investment                                              Rs
3 well points at Rs 150                                          450
3 connection charges at Rs 200                                   600
Pumpset                                                        2,400
3,250
Annual Costs
Installments (7 years @ 11%)                                     690
Power: 350 hrs x 750 w = 300 kwh at Rs 0.20 per kwh               60
Repair and lubrication                                            60
810
Rs 810 on 1.5 ha - Rs 560/ha
6.        This compares with costs to the owner of a conventional
shallow tubewell serving 3.3 ha as follows:
Installments on Rs 7,500/- loan                                1,600
Fuel, 350 hrs  - 350 litres x 1/20                               420
Lubrication, spares and repairs                                  580
Rs 2,600 on 3.3 ha = Rs 787/ha
7.        Loan repayments could be handled by having ownership of the
pumpset remain with the State Electricity Board. Capital amortization would
then be included in a charge per kWh of Rs 2.50. The hourly cost would be
about Rs 1.90. A stock of pumpsets in good repair would be maintained by
the ASEB to allow farmers to exchange pumps that had broken down (provided
his account was not in default). The farmer's annual cash outlay would be:



ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 3
Rs
Payments for power (including loan repayment)
300 kwh at Rs 2.50                                       750
Repair and lubrication                                         60
810 = Rs 540/ha
B.   Pendulum Pumps
8.        For marginal farmers, unable or reluctant to take an electrical
connection, or in areas where no electrical network exists, the pendulum
pump provides a possibly viable, but largely untried, alternative. This
is estimated to cost about Rs 500. The only operating cost is the labor re-
qui5ed to work the pump and would be supplied by the farmer. Lifting 3 or
4 m /hr of water 3 or 4 m is, however, hard work no matter how well mechanical
principles are applied, and during a dry spell in April this work may be re-
quired 8 hours a day, 7 days a week. It is not clear at present that farmers
would be prepared to work this hard for the extra produce involved. It is,
therefore, proposed to install 20 pendulum pumps in each of the three project
areas and closely monitor their performance. Since this is an unproven tech-
nology, the first 20 units should be installed free of charge on plots of
farmers indicating willingness to work them for a complete crop season.
9.        The bamboo well point has been designed with a brick pedestal
intended to be equally suitable for pendulum or portable electric pumps.
C.   Custom Service Scheme
10.       The Irrigation Department has for some years had diesel pumpsets
available for custom irrigation service. Why this scheme has not worked
well is unclear, but it is likely that the pumps were too heavy to move around
easily. Also, they were intended primarily for pumping from streams and
ponds, not wells.
11.       Under the project, the Irrigation Department would sink up to 20
conventional (4") shallow wells in a small area, in each of the 3 ground-
water project areas. To have access to the service, farmers would have to
agree to grow an early HYV crop and to pay for pumping on an hourly basis.
12.       Light weight 5 HP Pumpsets would be mounted on trolleys with one
(20" minimum dia.) pneumatic balloon tired wheel in front, two legs and two
handles behind (like a wheelbarrow). They would thus be easily movable,
and one pumpset could serve four wells each covering about 1.75 ha, total
7.0 ha.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 2
Page 4
13.       If each ha resuires 3000 m  of water during 3the season, total require-
ments would be 21,000 m . The pumpset producing 30 m /hr would therefore have
to run 700 hours.
Annual Costs
4 wells - amortization 8000 x .212                            1,700
Pumpset        "        5000 x .212                           1,060
Fuel 700 hrs - 700 litres at 1/10                               840
Lub., spares and repairs                                        600
Pump Operator                                                 1,400
Rs 5,600
Cost per ha = 5,600/7                                           800
Cost per hour - 5,600/700                                         8
14.       A single farmer with 1.75 ha using this service would thus pay
Rs 1,400/year, significantly more than for the small electric pumpset alter-
native, but possibly preferable since it is a proven technology and does not
depend on rural electrification. It would also save the farmer from having
to borrow and would protect him against pump breakdowns. (The Irrigation
Department would maintain a supply of spare pumpsets to cover this eventua-
lity.) In some cases, however, there would still be the problem of organizing
farmers around each well; with average farm fragment sizes under 0.5 ha it may
be necessary to service 3 or 4 farmers to make a 1.5 ha block.



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Water Requirements
J      F      M       A      M       J      J       A      S       0      N       D       Total
ETO (mm)                       32     40     60      76     78.5   80      78.5   72      64      56     40      32
Wheat
Crop Growth (Kc)              .60    .90    .80                                                         .10    .31
Crop E.T.                     19      36     48                                                           4      10       117
Effect.Rainfall               10      15     25                                                           4       6        60
Net. Irri. Reqt. (mm)           9     21     23                                                           0       4        57
Early Paddy
Crop Growth (Kc)                            .50       1.15   1.20   1.00
Crop E.T. (mm)                               30      80     95      80                                                   285
Land Preparations                                                                                                         150
Deep Perc.                           150     75      75     75      75                                                    300
Total Water Reqt.                    150    105    155    170    155                                                     885
Effect,Rainfall                       15     25      75    125    275                                                    515
Net. Irri. Reqt. (mm)                135     80      80     45       0                                                    340
Monsoon Paddy
Crop Growth (Kc)                                                            0.50   1.15   1.20   1.15   0.50
Crop E.T. (mm)                                                             39     83      77     65      20              284
Deep Perc.                                                                 75      75     75      75     75              375
Total Water Reqt.                                                         114    158    152    140       95              659
Effect.Rainfall                                                           287    300    200      60      45              892    * 
Net Irri. Reqt.                                                             0       0      0     80      50              130  



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundwater Availabilitv in Project Blocks
Com-   Net      % of
Shallow Tulbewells            bined  draft   annual
Avg.                              draft  (comb.  rainfall
hours   Existing       Proposed          draft   required
Average          Avg.    annual        Ground        Ground Com-   less re to replece
annual rainfall    capa-   opera-        water        water  bined  eycled  net draft
District   Block      Gross Area De th    Volume      ity    tion   Nos. draft   Nos. draft  draft  irrig.
(l)   (2)   (h)  (mn)  (ha.m)   (m /hr)            (ha.m)        -------- (ha.m)-------
KAMRJP    Barkhetri      45,000-  2.1614    97,260    30         700   -80    168   600  1,260  1,428  1,142    1.2
Mandia         62,500   2.1614  1.35.090    30        700    10      21   550  1,155  1,176   -941    1.7
B3habanipur    22,200   2.1614    47,980    30        700    20      42   800  1,680  1,722  1,37S    2.9
Gobardhana    34,800-  2.1614    75,216    30         700    10      21   400    840    861    693    0.9
Rupsi          29,000   2.1614    62,680    30        700   Nil    Nil   700  1,470  1,470  1,176    1.9
Barpeta        54,600   2.1614  1,10,012    30        700    24   50.4   800  1,680  1,730  1,384    1.2
Chengia        43,400   2.1614   .93,800    30        700      6   12.6   550  1,155  1,167    944    1.0
GOALPARA  Agomoni        26,100   2.118      55,279    30        700    39      82   800  1,680  1,762  1,410    2.6
Gauripur       35,000   2.11B      74.130    30       700    11      23   0CO  1,260  1,293  1,027    :.4
Golokgarnj     28,500   2.118      60,360    30       700    30      63   800  1,680  1,743  1,395    2.3
Lokhipur       58,400   2.118   1,23.690    30        700   Nil    Nil   600  1,260  1,260  1,008    0.81
i*ankachar     19,200   2.11a      40,665    30       700    11      23   400    840    863    690    1.7
South          67,100  2.118   i,42,120    30         700   Nil    Nil   400    840    840    672    0.47
Salmara
N0;.GQ1G   Batadraba     20,4cO   1.617       32,986    30       700    24   50.4   775  1,627  1,677  1,340    4.1
Juria          19,200   1.617      31,050    30       700      3    6.3   775  1,627  1,633  1,307    4.2
Loharlghat    41,900   1.627       67,750    30       700      1    2.1   675  1,417  1,419  1,135    1.7
Khaganjan      22,200.  1.617      35,897    30       700    39  119.7   700  1,470  1,590  1,272    3.5
Yapili         31,500   1.617      50,935    30       700    25   52.5   400    840    892    714    1.4
Mayang         58,700   1.617      94,920    30       700      2    4.2   500  1,050  1,054    843    0.9
Bhurbandha    30,100   1.617       48,670    30       700    18   37.8   675  1.417  1,455  1,164    2.4
NOTE: (8)  Numbers of all other types of wells are negligible.
(i4)  These figures are clearly so far below the established norms that is is certain that all water
pumped will be recharged by infiltration from rainfall in the folloving season.
X >



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        The project seeks to (a) reorganize and strengthen agricultural
extension and supportive research services in the plains districts of Assam,
to generate and to bring proven agricultural practices to a large number
of farmers thereby increasing their productivity and income, and (b) lay
the base for longer term improvements in groundwater development. An inte-
gral part of the project would be the establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system to: ensure that the extension organization is operating
efficiently, enable project management to undertake corrective action when
necessary, and to assess the impact of the project on the target group. In
order to promote uniformity of monitoring and evaluation of the proposed and
of similar projects in other states, GOI, concerned states and IDA are cur-
rently working out detailed monitoring and evaluation procedures and it is
expected that these would be finalized by July 1977. The following outlines
the broad principles contained in a draft report on monitoring and evaluation
and has been discussed with GOI and GOA; details would be finalized and agreed
by December 1977. A provision of Rs 3.6 million has been included in project
costs to carry out such monitoring and evaluation.
2.        Monitoring would consist of timely gathering and analysis of data
to measure: the build up and performance of project organizations as well as
farmers' reaction to recommended practices. Monitoring or reporting of phy-
sical and financial project inputs (recruitment of staff, provision of trans-
portation, equipment, houses, offices, etc.) would be largely carried out
through the normal reporting system of the concerned organization. For ex-
tension, this would be the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture.
To suit the needs of both the State Government and IDA, a proforma for semi-
annual progress reports would be agreed. It would be necessary to supplement
this inbuilt monitoring (and reporting) system to provide, on a sample basis,
an independent assessment of performance and farmer reaction. This additional
aspect of monitoring should be carried out by an external agency in conjunction
with ongoing evaluation, which would: assess overall impact of extension on
crop yields and farmers' welfare and determine the degree to which the project
is reaching economic, technical and social targets set for agricultural devel-
opment. The purpose of ongoing evaluation is to provide project management
and policy-makers with analytical support that might be necessary to enable
them to assess and, if required, adjust policies, objectives, institutional
arrangements and resources affecting the project during implementation. The
remaining part of this annex refers to evaluation and those aspects of monitor-
ing which would be carried out on a sample basis by an external agency.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Indicators
3.        The monitoring and evaluation described above would use a limited
number of selected indicators to reflect the essential agronomic, economic,
sociological, and institutional dimensions of the project. Key indicators
would focus on: farm visits, adoption rates and yields. To measure insti-
tutional build-up, indicators would include: staffing of the extension organi-
zation, selection of contact farmers, training and physical equipment. For
monitoring extension performance the suggested indicators are: degree of ex-
posure to extension, visit performance, farmers' evaluation of T&V, adoption
rates of new practices, and quality of training sessions. To measure project
impact, the main indicators would be: yields, changes in croppng patterns,
area under HYVs, spread of new practices, amount of fertilizers purchased,
and credit use and recovery.
Studies
4.        Studies to generate information along the lines of selected indi-
cators would be:
(a) a sample survey of contact farmers, focussing on VLEW field
visits. This would be carried out in preharvest months.
Out of the total of 200,000 contact farmers in the State,
a multi-stage stratified random sample comprising about
2,000 would be selected;
(b) an evaluation survey of a representative cross-section of
the total farming population, including a crop cutting
survey. The evaluation survey should be carried out at
harvest time during the two major seasons (kharif and rabi).
It would attempt to measure the impact of extension recom-
mendations on adoption rates and yields. The survey would
also: provide information on the dissemination of new
practices to followers; and correlate yields and take-up
rates with farm size and socio-economic status of farmers
to assess which rural groups benefit most from the project.
Due to the repetitive character of the evaluation survey,
a time series of yield data will be gradually accumulated.
Surveys in year one of the project would serve to establish
benchline data;
(c) a set of ad hoc studies, for example:
- Study of the selection of contact farmers;
- The use of demonstration plots as extension tools;
- Quality of training sessions;
- Survey of VLEW and AEO; and
- Sociological village case studies on extension impact;



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(d) a special study to evaluate the effects of the project's
groundwater component and to measure on a sample basis
the cost-benefit relation of investment in STW.
5.        An evaluation unit would be set up by strengthening one of the
statistical or evaluation units already in existence (but outside the Depart-
ments of Agriculture and Irrigation). Staff assigned to the unit would be
full time. The unit would consist of two sections: one responsible for
designing and carrying out sample surveys, and the other for ad hoc studies.
At headquarters, the unit would be staffed by two statisticians, an agricul-
tural economist, one sociologist, and junior research officers as required.
Two or three field data collectors would be stationed in each district and
would be administratively responsible to the head of the evaluation unit.
Assistance from outside sources would be necessary, in particular for somelof
the ad hoc studies and funds would be provided for the Secretary Agricultu e
to commission such assistance as and when required. State universities or
other local institutions (possibly the Agro-Economic Research Center for
North East India) would be contracted to conduct such studies.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
(Rupees Thousands)
Year                                Total         Foreign
1          2          3          4          5            Cost          Exchange
EXTENSION (Annex 7)
Civil works                               4,682      8,871      7,932           -          -          21,485              -
Equipment and vehicles                    5,277      3,490      1,817         512          -          11,096          2,310
Sub-total                            9,959    12,361       9,749        512          -           32.581         2,310
Physical contingencies                      801      1,386      1.221           1          -           3,409             19
Total                               L0,760    13,7147    10,970         513           -          35,990         2,329
Training (Domestic)                         796      1,086      1,226       1,245      1,261           5,614              -
Physical contingencies                        39         54         61         62         63              279             -
Total                                  835      1,140      1,287      1,307      1,324            5,893              -
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Salaries                                  1,631      2,476      3,465      3,975       3,975          15,522              -
Operating expenses and allowances         2 333      3,704      4,984      5,157      5,213           21,391          2,967
Sub-total                            3,964      6,180      8,449      9,132      9,188           36,913         2,967
Physical contingencies                      233         370        498        516        521           2,138            297
Total                                4,197      6,550      8,947      9,648      9,709           39,051         3,264
Total Extension                          14,719    19,627    19,424    10,889    10,449               75,108          5,277
Physical Contingencies                   _1073      i.810      1.788         579        584           5,826            316
GRAND TOTAL EXTENSION                         15.792    21,437    21 204    11,468    11,033               80,434         5,593
RESEARCH (Annex 8)
A. University Research
Civil works                               2,083      4,002      1,069           -          -           7,154             90
Laborator equipment                           70       220         326        250        122             988            791
Other equipment and vehicles                 340        627        132         67         18           1,184            189
Sub-total                            2,493      4,849      1,527        317        140            9,326         1,070
Physical contingencies                      231         463        153         32         14              893            94
Total                                2,724      5,312      1,680        349        154           10,219         1,164
Training and Consultancy Services
Fellowships                                 757        772        377         52          22           1,980          1,595
Consultant  (domestic)                        27         11         11          6          5               60             -
Total                                  784        783        388         58         27            2,040         1,595
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Salaries                                      43        258        312        331        342           1,286              -
Operating costs                              110        160        210        210        320           1,010            184
Sub-total                              153        418        522        541        662            2,296            184
Physical contingencies                        11         16         21         21         32              101            19
Total                                  164        434        543        562         694           2,397            203
Total University Research                  3,430      6,050      2,437        916        829          13,662          2,849
Total Physical Contingencies                 242        479        174         53         46              994           113
Grand Total University Research            3,672      6,529      2,611        969        875          14,656          2,962



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
INDIA
A8SAg   AGRICULTURAL DIVKlWUlNT PRoJECT
Su_ rZ of Proiect Costs
CPupees -housands)
Year                                 Total       Foreign
1         2           3         4           5            Cost        Exchangte
B. Field Trials Stations and FTS Cell
Civil works                                 828      1,734      1,128        867        357           4,914            180
Laboratory equipment                        120        156         60         78          -              414           331
Other equipment and vehicles                876        281        410        143         29           1,739            289
Sub-total                           1,824      2,171      1,598      1,088         386           7,067            800
Physical contingencies                      177        301        201        151         58              888            63
Total                                2,001     2,472      1,799      1,239         444           7,955            863
Training
Fellowships                                  98          9         53         13         13              186            56
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Salaries                                    259        538        910      1,036      1,177           3,920              -
Operating costs                             323        509        755        848        899           3.334            391
Sub-total                              582     1,047      1,665      1,884      2,076            7,254           391
Physical contingencies                       34         52         79         88         94              347            40
Total                                  616     1,099      1,744      1,972      2,170            7,601           431
Total Field Trials Stations & FTS Cell 2,504         3,227      3,316      2,985      2,475          14,507          1,247
Total Physical Contingencies                211        353        280        239        152           1,235            103
Grand Total Field Trials Stations         2,715      3,580      3,596      3,224      2,627          15,742         1,350
Total Research                            5,934      9,277      5,753      3,901      3,304          28,169         4,096
Physical Contingencies                      453        832        454        292        198           2,229            216
GRAND TOTAL RESEARCH                          6,387    10,109       6,207      4,193      3,502          30,398          4.312
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENTiAnnex 9)
A. Support for Irrigation Department
(including Survey, Monitoring and
Mapping Programs)
Civil works                                 506        256          -          -          -             762              4
Equipment and vehicles                      744         65          -          -          -             809           169
Sub-total                            1,250        321          -          -         -           1,571            173
Physical contingencies                       66         33          -         -          -               99             2
Sub-total                           1,316        354          -          -          -           1,670            175
Training and Consultancies                   51         64          -          -          -             115             -
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Salaries                                    430      1,213      1,075        611          -           3,329             -
Operating costs                             20.5       293        273        289          -           1,060           118
Sub-total                              635     1,506      1,348        900          -           4,389            118
Physical contingencies                       21         29         27         29          -             106            12
Sub-total                             656      1,535      1,375        929          -           4,495            130
Total                                     1,936      1,891      1,348        900          -           6,075           291
Physical Contingencies                       87         62         27         29          -             205            14
Grand Total                               2,023      1,953     1,375         929          -           6,280           305
B. Technology Development
Civil works                                 160        216          -          -          -             376             -
Equipment and vehicles                      109        133          -          -          -             242            36
Sub-total                              269       349          -          -          -             618             36
Physical contingencies                       27         35         -         -           -               62             4
Sub-total                              296       384          -          -          -             680             40



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
(Rupees Thousands)
ver.r                              Total       Foreign
1         2          3          4          5            Cost       Exchange
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Operating costs                              4          8          -          -          -              12             1
Total                                      273        357          -          -         -              630            37
Physical Contingencies                      27         35          -          -          -              62             4
Grand Total                                300        392          -          -         -              692            41
Total Groundwater Development            2,209      2,248     1,348        900          -           6,705           328
Physical Contingencies                     114         97         27         29         -              267            18
GRAND TOTAL GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENTI/        2,323      2.345      1.375        929          -           A, 72          J46
MONITORING AND EVALUATION (Annex 10)
Vehicles                                   103          -          -          -          -             103            26
Consultancies                              350        350        350        350       350           1,750              -
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Salaries                                   257        257        257       257        257           1,285              -
Operating Costs                             66         79         79         84        84             392             77
Sub-total                             323        336       336        341        341           1,677            77
Physical contingencies                       7          8          8          9         9               41             8
Total                                 330        344       344        350        350           1,718            85
Total Monitoring and Evaluation            776        686        686       691        691           3,530           103
Physical Contingencies                       7          8          8          9         9              41              8
GRAND TOTAL MONITORING AND EVALUATION           783       694        694        700       700           3,571            111
Project Cost without Contingencies          23,638    31,838    27,211    16,381    14,444            113,512         9,804
Physical Contingencies                       1,647      2,747      2,269       909        791           8,363           558
Price Contingencies (Annex 11)               1.612      5 188      6, 841    6,113      5,971          25,725_        2,087
Total Contingencies                          1,259      7,935     9,110      7,02.2     6,762          34,088         2,645
GRAND TOTAL PROJECT COSTS-/                 26,897    39,773    36,321    23,403    21,206            147,600        12,449
1/ Does not include shallow tubewells and low lift pumps which would be financed by long term credit operations,
and is estimated to cost Rs. 140 million, including price contingencies.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMT PROIJECT
Summary of Extension Costs
(Rupees Thousands)
---- --------YEAR---;---------          Total        Foreign Exchange
1        2        3         4        5         Cost             7      Cost
Civil Works
New Construction                    2,434    4,540    5,185        -        -        12,159
Rehabilitation                      1.874    3.621    2.083        -        -         7.580
Subtotal                            4,308    8,161    7,268        -        -        19,739
Professional Fees                     374       708    _ 664       -         _        1.746
Subtotal                            4,682    8,871.   7,932        -        -        21,485
Physical Contingencies (15%)          702    1.33)   1.189         -        -         3.221
Total                               5.384   10,20.    9.121        -        _        24.706
Equimaent and Vehicles
Equipment                             994       558      322        12      -         1,886           (10)     189
Vehicles                            4.283    2.93:    1.495        500      -         9.210           (23)   2.121
Subtotal              l/            5,277    3,490    1,817        512      -        11,096           (21)   2,310
Physical Contingencies7  (107.)        99        56       32         1      _           188           (10)      19
Total                               5.376    3.54t    1.849        513      -        11.284           (21)   2.329
TraininR
In-Service Training                   232      383       472      505       521       2,113
Orientation Training                   91        67       60       -        -           218
VLEW Refresher Training               -          1:1      25        38       38         114
Preservice Training                   473       523      519       502      502       2,519
Scholarships                          _         100      150       200      200         650
Subtotal                              796    1,086    1,226    1,245    1,261         5,614
Physical Contingencies (5%)            39        54       61        62       63         279
Total                                 835    1,14)    1,287    1,307    1,324         5,893
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Salaries                            1,631    2,476    3,465    3,975    3,975        15,522
Operating Expenses, Materials         385       844    1,420    1,465    1,465        5,579            (5)     279
Housing Allowances                     47        69       93       102      102       413               -      -
Travel Allowances                   1,035    1,5181   1,982    2,047    2,047         8,624           (10)     860
Vehicle Operating Costs'              833    1,199    1,353    1,353    1,353         6,091           (30)   1,828
Incentive Allowances                   33        7'l     136       190      246         684             -      -
Subtotal (Operating)                2,333    3,704    4,984    5,157    5,213        21,391           (14)   2,967
Physical Contingencies (10)           233       370      498       516      521       2.L38           (14)     297
2.566    4.074    5.482    5.673    5.734       23.529           (14)   3.264
Total (Establishment)               4,197    6,550    8,947    9,648    9,709        39,051           (13)   3,264
-         -.         _        -                    - _                     -  
TOTAL EXlENSION                      14,719   19,627   19,424   10,889   10,449        75,108            (7)   5,277
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                1.073    1.81)    1.780        579      584       5,826            (6)_    316
GRMLD TOTAL                          15,792   21,437'  21,204   11,468   11,033        80,934            (7)   5,593
I/ Equi, pme nt,onl
11 Equipment only.



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROGRAM
Civil Works -- Extension
(Rs Thousand)
_______-_YEAR ---------
Ar2a          2     Unit      ------1-----        -------2 ------     ------3 -----        -------4------       -------5 -----       Total
Quantity               Rs/M       Cost      (Nos)     Cost      (Nos)      Cost      (Noa)     Cost      (Nos)      Cost      (Nos)      Cost      Cost
New Construction
VLEW Quarters                     (600)       (40)    (350)       14.0       (100)   1,400      (200)    2,800      (300)    4,200         -         _                           8,400
AEO Quarters                       (40)       (60)    (410)       25.0        (10)      250      (20)       500       (10)      250        -         -          -         -       1,000
SD0 Quarters                       (30)       (80)    (410)       33.0         (7)     231       (15)       495        (8)      264                       -                        990
SD Offices                          (6)       (170)    (650)    110.5          (3)     332        (3)       332                 -          -         _          _                   664
Sub-Total                                                                            2,213                4,127               4,714        -         _                    -     11,054
Site Development (10%)                                                                  221                 413                 471                  -                    -       1,105
Sub-Total                                                                            2,434               4,540                5,185                  _                          12,159
Professional Fees (10%)                                                                 243                 454                 518                                               1  1
Total                                                                                2,677                4,994               5,703                  -                    -     13.374
2/
Rehabilitationf
VLEW Quarters                     (850)        -         -         7.0       (200)   1,400      (400)    2,800       (250)    1,750        -         _          _         -      5,950
AEO Quarters                      (100)        -         -        12.5        (30)     375       (50)       625       (20)       250       -         -          -         -       1,250
SDO Quarters                       (23)       -          -        16.5         (6)      99       (12)       198        (5)       83        -         - _        _                   380
Sub-Total                                                                            1,874                3,623               2,083                  -                    -      7,580
Professional FPes (7%)                                                                  131                 254                  146                 -                    -         531
Sub-Total                                                                            2.005                3.877               2.229                                       -      8.111
Total                                                                                4,682                8,871               7,932                  -                    -     21,485
Physical Contingencies (15%)                                                           702                1.330               1.189                  -                    -      3.221
GRAND TOTAL                                                                          5,384               10,201               9,121                  -                    -     24,706
I/ Housing provided as follows:
Existing
Total Staff           Quarters            Rehabilitated        New      % Housing Provided
VLEW                      2,440                1,100                   850             600               60
AEO                          305                 140                    100             40               45
SDAO, ASDAO, SMS             110                  53                    23              30               48
2/ Average rehabilitation cost @ 50% cost of new quarters.                                                                                                                                      g|J



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DevSWPDt? PROJECT
Equipment end Vehicles - Extension
(Rupees thousands)
7    C    a    r                                              Foreign
Unit           1                2                3  r                          5       Total       Exchange
Tvns         Quantity   Cost        )     Coot    (Uo        w C                    .No 1 C  oe t (      Cost   Cost       M      Cost
Vehicles
Denartmental
Head arters
Zone-                         Sedan                2       32.0     (2)       64       -        _       _        _      _       _    _      _        64   (25)        16
District3!                   4-wheel drive        22       55.0    (10)      550    (12)      660       -         -     -       -    -      -     1,210   (25)       303
Van                  9      100.0      (5)     500      (4)-    400                          _                         900   (25)      225
Subdiviaion-                 4-wheel drive        78       55.0    (42)   2.310    (20)   1.100    (16)        880      -     _         _         4.290   (25)   1.073
Subtotal                                                                   3,424            2,160              880 B                        _     6,464            1,617
Staff Owned
motorcycle         305        6.0    (64)      384    (94)      564    (71)       426   (76)   456            -      1,830   (25)      458
SV '                          E tBicycle       1,830        0     (950)      475   (415)      208   (378)       I89   (87)    44    -       _        916    (5)       46
Subtotal                                                                     859              772               615           500           _      2,746             504
EouiPment
lIeadquar  7rsY                                                               is 18    .       18       -        10     -       -    _      _         46      -
District9                                                 45.0      (5)      225      (4)     180       -         -                                  405     -         _
Subdiviston - 1e219                                        50.0     (4)      200      (1)      50      (1)       50     -       -    -      -        300     -         -
- Existist                                    42.0    (10)      420      (6)     252      (5)      210     _                            882      _         _
Other Extension Aids.''                                      ..       -      131       -        58      -        52     _      12    -      _        253      _         _
Subtotal                                                                     994              558               322            12           _      1,886   (10)      189
mTOAL                                                                          5,277             3,490            1,817           512           -    11,096   (21)   2,310
PHYSICAL CONTIEtENCIES (10?  on equipment)                                        99                56               32             1 o188   (10)                         19
GRAND  TOTAL                                S5376                                                3 546            I849            513                 11.284   (21)   2.329
1/ Seven cars and one van available.
2/  One car per zonr,l JDA.
1' One 4-wheel drl.e vehicle per DAO;  two 4-wheel drive vehicles per three-man DATO/DSMS Tess. One van equipped with audio/vioual aide per district, net of
existing vehicles.
4/  One 4-wheel drive vehicle per SUM and per ASDO. One 4-wheel drive vehicle per two-man SW6 Tem.  Oneatddltional vehicle in subdivisions ti  which tubevell
program concentrated.
5/  Assume& a11 AEOs will acquire motorcycles.
6/  Assumee 25% of VLEW already have  bicycles.
7/ Photographic equipmsnt, slide duplicator, photocopyins machinc, calculators.
it  One sot eudio-visual equipment (overhead projector, slide projector,  screen, blackboard and chart board).  Small printing machine, typewriters, calculators
and accessories.
9/ One set audio-visual equipLent, dupkicator, typewritcra.
to/ As above, excluding typewriters.
11/ Includes folding blackboard for VLEW, and small library and insect preservation box at subdiviatous (Rs 100 per VLSU, Rs 300 per subdivision).



AWA   7
Table 4
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHINT PItOJECT
Traniz C  t    -tion
(Rupeas t sna
Unit                   1             2                 3                4                5         Total
Type of Training             Cost Quantity  (Q)   Coat  (N)   Coot   (No.)   Coat   (No.)   Coat   (No.)   Coat   Coat
In-Sarvice Training
Preseason Trainint
VLEW                            0.07   9,523    (965)   68  (1,678)    118  (2,112)    148  (2,328)    163  (2,440)    171    668
Other Staff                     0.15   1,946    (240)   36    (353)        53    (451)      68    (451)      68    (451)      68    293
Special Short Courses
VLEW/AEO =                     0.07  10,825  (1,123)   79  (1,907)    134  (2,417)    169  (2,633)    184  (2,745)    192    758
Other Staff-                    1.00      394      (49)   49      (78)     78      (87)     87      (90)     90      (90)     90    394
Total                                                      232              383              472              505             5   2.3,13
Orientation Training
Total, All Staff                   0.10   2,183    (910)   91    (671)       67    (602)      60        -       -        -       -    218
VZIW Refresher Training
Total                              0.25     450        -     -      (50)     13    (100)      25    (150)      38    (150)       38    114
Preservica Training
Vwl3 Recruite  Senior'ta /   N.A.             -        -   450        -     502        -     502        -     502        -     502  2,458
Nailv Reeruited Senior Staff-    1.00        61      (23)   23      (21)     21      (17)     17        -       _        _     _        61
Total                                                      473              523              519              502              502  2,519
Scholarships                        10.00      65        -     -      (10)    100      (15)    150      (20)    200      (20)    200    650
TOTAL                                                        796            1,086            1,226            1,245            1,261  5,614
PHYSICAL COUTINGENCIES                                        39-              54               61               62               63    279
GRAND TOTAL                                                  835            1 140              17                07            1.324  5893
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                 2                 ..3241.
_/ Tvies a year for total of about 6 days.
2/ One a year for about one week at district leval.
i/  Specialized traing primarily for SUS at al levels.  Includes travel/study tours to All-India Intitutes.
4/  Cost based on additionl budget of two existing GSTC which would be fully utilized over the project perid la trlii   staff
required for the project.  Coat estimate  allow  a 25X increae over existing levels:  (a) to allow hiring of additional
teachug staff to acco_odate increased intenity of use and (b) to cover additional stipends iupli.d by higher enrollment jessi.
5/  Primrily for new SNS, SDAO, ASD*O. Traiuing progrm  similar to that for Field Trial Station worker, but of shorter duration.



ANNEX 7
Table 5
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPFhET PROJECT
Incremental Staff Salaries and Incentives - Extension
(Rupees thouaands)
Annual
Unit                                      Y   e   a   r
Cost          1                2                 3                 4                 5          Total
('000 Rs) (No.)    Cost    (No.)   Cost    (No.)   Coat    (!o.)    Cost    (No.)    Cost          Cost
Incremental Extension Staff
Headqug ters
ADA (Extension)                 18.7      (1)       19      (1)       19      (1)      19      (1)       19      (1)       19        95
SHS                             15.4      (2)       31      (2)       31      (2)      31      (2)       31      (2)       31       155
Subdivision
SDAO                             8.5      (4)       34      (5)       43      (6)      51      (6)       51      (6)       51       230
ASDAO                             7.1    (13)       92    (19)       135    (23)      163    (23)       163    (23)       163       716
SMS                              6.9      (6)       41    (20)      138    (32)       221    (32)       221    (32)       221      842
Field Level
VLEW                             3.6   (302)   1.087   (448)   1.613   (664)   2.390   (780)   2,808   (780)   2.808   10.706
Subtotal                                        1,304             1,979             2,875            3,293             3,293   12,74
Incentive (Advanced  ncreant)-/
VLEW                                    (241)       15   (334)        35   (416)       60   (416)        84   (416)       109      303
AEC                                      (40)       10    (57)        23    (76)       42    (76)        60    (76)        78       213
Other Staff                              (20)        8    (30)        21    (30)       34    (30)        46    (30)        59      168
Subtotal                                            33                79              136               190              246       684
Incremntal A   inietrative/
Service 5tff_
Headquarters
Superintendent Accounts          8.6      (1)        9      (1)        9     (1)        9      (1)        9      (1)        9       45
Upper Divicion Assistants        6.4      (1)        6      (1)        6     (1)        6      (1)        6      (1)        6        30
Typist                           4.1      (1)        4      (1)        4     (1)        4      (1)        4      (1)        4        20
Zone
Drivers                          4.0      (2)        8      (2)        8     (2)        8      (2)        8      (2)        8       40
District
Drivers                          4.0    (15)        60    (31)      124    (31)       124    (31)       124    (31)      124       556
Subdivision
Upper Division Assistants        5.1    (14)        71    (21)       107    (27)      138    (27)       138    (27)       138       592
Lover Division Assistants
Cum Typist                    3.9      (8)       31    (10)       39    (12)        47    (12)        47    (12)       47       211
Grade IV                         3.2      (8)       26    (10)        32    (12)       38    (12)        38    (12)        38       172
Drivers                           4.0    (28)      112    (42)       168    (54)      216    (77)       308    (77)       308    1,112
Subtotal                                           327               497              590               682               682    2,778
GRAND TOTAL                                      1.664            2.555             3,601             4.165            4.221   16,206
1/  Advanced Increment assumed to be awarded annually during the project period to 25% of existing staff (though new recruits
would also be eligible).  Incrment assumed at Rs 60 per year per VLEW, Rs 240 per year per AEO and Rs 420 per year for more
senior staff.
2/  Office staff for 6 new subdivisions.  One additional Upper Division Assistant per subdivision.



INDIA
ASSMH AGRICULTURAI. DEoVgIOPEr PROJECT
Increwntal Operatinr   Costs - Extension
(Pupees tousand)
Unit Cost                                                        Y    *    a    r                                                       Foreign
(Per Man/                          1                  2                  3                   4                  5          Total   ..Jkm..e
Year)                     (1!2)    Coat    (N.-)    Cot         (No)    Cost    (No.)    Co-t          (No.)    Cost    Cost    _L C2         t
Oratin Exansea anqd
Extuons topMterial.
VLII                           0.4 V/                  (1,267)     251   (1,624)      547   (2,328)      931   (2,440)       976   (2,440)      976    3,681       -        -
ABO                            0.7 I/                    (158)      55      (229)     120      (305)      214     (305)      214      (305)     214       817      -        -
Subdivision and above          1.8 1/                     (88)      79      (131)     177      (153)      275     (153)      275      (153)     275    1.081      -         -
Subtotal                                                           385                844              1,420               1,465              1,465    5,579    (5)       279
Incremental Ibusgg Allowance<
2/
New Staff'                                                          20                 30                  43                 49                 49       191
Existing Staff/                                                     27                 39                  50                 53                  53      222
Subtotal                                                            47                 69                  93                102                102       413
Incremental Travel Allovances
and neeams
VtN- no u                        564/                    (302)     169      (448)      251     (664)      372      (780)     437      (780)     437    1,6  -6
Existing                0.20W                    (965)      193   (1,376)      275   (1,664)      333   (1.664)       333   (1,664)      333    1,467      -         _
AND                            3.30W                     (158)     521      (229)      756     (305)   1,007       (305)   1,007      (305)   1.007    4,298   (20)       860
SubdivLison - New              1.80                       (23)      41       (44)       79      (61)      110       (61)     110       (61)      110      450      -         -
- Existing         1.50                      (38)       57      (44)       66      (49)       74       (49)       74      (49)       74       345     -         -
District and Above             2.00                       (27)      54       (43)       86      (43)       86       (43)      86       (43)       86      398      -         -
Subtotal                                                         1,035              1,513               1,982              2,047              2,047    6,624   (10)       860
(Per Vahicle/
Vehicle Oparating Costs      (   Year)
beadquarters, Patrol          16.25-t                      (8)     130        (8)      130       (8)      130        (8)     130        (8)      130      650   (30)       195
Zon, Patrol                   16 256/                      (2)      33        (2)       33       (2)       33        (2)      33        (2)       33       165   (30)       5D
District, Diesel              10.o0o0                     (20)      200      (36)      360      (36)      360       (36)     360       (36)      360    1,640   (30)       492
Subdivision, Diesel           10io0DV                     (47)     470       (67)     676       (83)      830       (83)     830       (83)      630    3.636   (30)   1091_
Subtotal                                                           833              1,199               1,353              1,353               1,353    6,091   (30)   1,626
TOTAL                                                               2,300              3,625              4,848              4,967               4,967   20.707   (14)   2,967
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (101)                                          230                363                 U5                497                 497    2.072   (14)       297
CRAND TOTAL                                                         2,530              ,3,988             5546                                   5,464   22.779   (14)   3 24
1 Iludoe printing of diaries, charts and instructional materiala,  emplae of mall implmnts, seeds #ad pesticid e for doetration/training purpaes,
materials (poster poper, paints) for siyle visual side.  Taken at 50S of cost in year 1, 75S of coat in yer 2.
2/ Calculated at IO  of the incremntal staff salaries (Table 1) for the 151 of the staff who rat quarter
3/  Incremetel of Es 10 per month for the 15S of the staff who rent quarters.
4/  Asse  existing fixed T.A. raised from   s 30 to Rs 40 per month plus Rs 7 per mth for maintaining bicycles.
/    O's mileap  allowanc  - 2.400/year (- 8,000 km x Is 0.3/ho).  Plus ast.ad T.A. adjusted to approxImately Es 1.200 per year (Es 100 per month) from present
*verage of about Rs 300 per year.
6/  25,000 ho/year at Re 0.65/ho.
If  25,000 Wyear at Re 0.4/ho.



AMU 8
INDIA                                    Table 1
ASSAM AGRIC17LTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Research Costsi S-rv
(Rupees Thousand.)
---- -------YEAR----------------                           Total            Foreign Exehmnge
2                     3           4           5           Cost             %           Cost
A. UNIVERSITY RESEARCH
Civil Works
Sob-total                   1,860       i,573         954         --         --         6,387            (1)            90
Profeoaion.l Fees (12%)       223        429          115        --          -_            767
Sub-total                   2,083       ',002       1,069         --         --          7,154             --           90
Physical Contingencies
(10%)                        208         400         107         -_          __            715             --            9
Total                       2,291       ,,402       1,176         --         --          7,869           (1)            99
Equ.isent and Vehicles
Vehicles                      180         220         --          --         --            400          (25)           100
Labuortory  qstipsent          70         220         326         250         122          988          (80)           791
Other Equipm..nt              160         407         132          67          18          784          (11)            89
Sub-total                     410         847         458         317         140       2,172           (45)           980
Physical Contingencies         23         63           46         32           14          178                          85
Total                         433         910         504        3g9          154        2,350          (45)         1,065
Ii
Tr-isino and Cnoul. toney -.
TOv-Raa, u-se month           --           60         --           30         --            90          (65)            58
three months        90         135          45         --          __           270          (75)           203
s -m months        195         195         130         __          __           520          (85)           443
twelve  .osths     450         360         180         --          --           990          (90)           891
India                          22          22          22          22          22__        110             --          --
Sub-total                     757         772         377          52          22        1,980             __          __
Short-term Consultant          27          11         it            6           5           60             --          --
Total                         784         783         388          58          27        2,040          (78)         1,595
Est ablishnentCo t  Icrementai)
a) Salaries                    43         258         312         331         342        1,286             --          --
b) Operat-ng Colst            110         160         210         210        320         1,010          (18)           184
Physic-l Conting-nci     __ 11     _   16          21          21          32          101           (19)            19
Sub-total                     121         176         231         231         352        1,111          (18)           203
Total                         164         434         543         562         694        2,397           (8)           203
TOTAL (A)                         3,430       6,050       2,437         916         829       13,662          (20)         2,849
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES  (A)         242         479         174          53          46          994          (10)            113
GRAND TOTAL (A)                   3,672       6,529       2,611         969         875       14,656          (20)         2,962
B. FIELL TRIALS STATIONS (9)
AND AAU CELL
Civil Works
BulIdings                     738       1 548       1,005         774         318       4,383            (4)           180
Priefslu..a.  Foes (122,)     90          186        123          93          39          531
Sub-total                     828       1,734      1,128         867         357        4,914              --
Physical C-st-gemcies         126         258         171         129          54          738           (2)            18
Total                         954       1,992       1,299         996        411         5,652           (4)           198
Equipnent & Vehicles
Vehicles                      492         --          180         --         --           672           (25)           168
Laboratory Equipm.ent         120         156          60          78        --           414           (80)           331
Other Equipment               384         281        230         143          29        1.067           (11)           121
Sub-total                     996         437        470         221          29        2,153           (29)           620
Physical Contingencies         51          43          30         22           4          150          (27)             45
Total                       1,047         180         500        243          33        2,303           (29)           665
Traisnin
Ov1rseac -- Ou- llonth         60         -_           26        --          --            86          (65)'            56
umestic                        38   _      9          27          13          13 9100                      _
Total                          98           9          53         13          13          186          (27)             56
E.tabliohmsent Costs (Iscrmentul)
a) Salaries              -    259         138         910      1,036       1,177        3,920             --          --
b) op-rating Cost             323         .09        755         848         899        3,334          (12)           391
Physical Comtigemcios    34_          52          79         88          94          347          (12)             40
Sub-total                     357         561        834         936         993        3,681          (17)           431
Total                         616       I,C99      1,744       1,972       2,170        7,601           (6)           431
TOTAL (B)
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (8)   2,384         3,227       3,316       2,985      2,475       14.507           (9)         1,247
211        333         280         239         152        1,235           (8)           103
GRAND TOTAL (1B)
2,715      3,530       3,596       3,224       2,627       15,742           (9)         1,350
TOTAL RESEARCH                    5,934       9,277       3,753       3,901       3,304      28,169           (15)        4.096
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              453         82        4534          292         198       2,229           (10)           216
GRAND TOTAL RESEARCH              6,387      10,1)9       6,207       4,193       3,502      30,398           (14)         4,312
1! see Table 2. fiotot S.



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Research Stat-o._ Titab-r
(Rupees Thousands)
Forign          F-rigs
_ _ __ ___    ____------ YEAR --------------------                                ERchange         Echange
2                  2                                                                                             t1C.
Quantity           Rs/M              Area (M )            Unit Cost        1           2           3            4           5           Total Cos(                             Cost
Ci-il Works45
LSbec  Hory/OiftrenfLertoro tRoo             1               (750)              (600)                 200 0          8         00           --           --          -              4400 1500
Itoreen   un e1                                           (500)              (400)                 200.0        --         200 --                     --         --              200
GIlees Rou.e                                 I             (5,OUR)                (5R)                250.0         --         150          ER            -           -               5
Dcrreen House                                2               (800)              (100)                  80.0         RU         RU80- --                                             160
Crop Threshing Floo  (Coverd)                1               (250)              (400)                 1UE U         IOU        --           --0-IO
Vermin-proof, A-r-onditioned,                                                                                        75         75          --                                       150
Insulated Seed Store                         1             (1,500)              (100)                 150.           7
Stuff Quarters 1/                                                                                      50           Su         100          100                                     250
Senior Professional                      5                                                                                                                                        80
Junior Professional                      2                                                          4.           40         40           --           --         --              15
Senior Research Assistants               5                                                          30.0         30         60            60          --         --              150
Field Assistants                        20                                                          22.5         1113       22           112                      __            74
Drivers and Others                2/     4                                                          15.0          DR         36           ER          __          __              72
RebhbiD3t0t-on of Enisti    ouses            5                                                                 v-                                                                     75
Sob-total                                                                                                           701      1.296          390           --         --           2,387
Stotion Development (20%)                                                                                           140        259           78           --         --             477                  (6)                 30
Sub-total                                                                                                           841      1,555          468           --         --           2,864
Professional Foes (12%)                                                                                             101        187           56           --         --              344
Sub-total                                                                                                           942      1,742          524           __         __           3,208                  (1)                 30
Physical Continge-nies (10%)                                                                                         94        174            52          __         __              320                 (1)                  3
Totol                                                                                                             1,036      1,916           576          __         __            3,528                                      33
Equipment and Vehicles
Vehicles (e) 4-theeD drive with
trailer                     2                                                          60.0         60         60           --            __         _,             120                 (25)                 30
(ii) minibos (20 so.ts)           1                                                        100.0         _-         D00          --            __         __              100                (25)                 25
Farm Equipnent                                                                                                       50         50            52          __         __              152                (15)                  23
Laboratory Equipmest              4/                                                                                 50        100           150          100         50             450                (80)                 360
Laboratory and Office Fur-it-re                                                                                     --          67           --           --         --               67                  -                 --
Offic- Equipment                                                                                                     20         30           --           --          --              50                (10)                   5
SDb-total                                                                                                           180        407           202          100          30            939                 (47)                443
Physical Continge-nies  (IOX including vehicles)                                                                     12         25            20           10           5             72                (54)                  39
TotaD                                                                                                               192        432           222           110         55          1,011                 (48)                482
Training and Consultan-y Services -/
Fellowship, Overte.a  (IRRS und S0E.                                          (Months)
Asia)                1                                (One)                     30          --          30           -            --         --               30                 (65)                 19
-do-                       2                                 (three)                  45           45          45          --            --         --               90                (75)                 68
-do-                       2                                 (Six)                    65           65          65          --            __         __              130                (85)                111
-do-                       6                                 (Twelve)                 90          180         180          180           --         --              540                (90)                486
Fello.s1hip, India                                                                                                   10          10           10            10         10              50                   --               __
Short-term Consultant  A4                                                      (Eight)                 5/nonth       20           5            5             5          5              40                   --               --
Total                                                                                                               320        335           195            15         15             880                (78)                684
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
(a) Salaries                                                                                                         20         75            78            80         82             335                   --               --
(b) Operating Costs (including form)                                                                                 50        100           150          150         200             650                (20)                130
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                                                                      5         10            15            15         20              65                (20)                 13
Sub-total                                                                                                             55        110          165           165        220             715
Total                                                                                                                 75        185          243           245        302           1,050                (14)                 143
TOTAL                                                                                                                 1,512      2.659        E,149           34           4            .12                  (,21)             1.287 
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                                                                 11         209              7          3425        324                    6                                        56,0
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                           1,623      2,868         1,236          370         372          6,469                 (71)              1.342
I/ Provides for full cosplement of scientific and senior support stff;
2/ Estimated at 25% replacement cost;
3/ Inclsde. deep tube-ll, electnicity distribution, road repairs, fencing and drainage;
4/ 157 of building cost.
5/ Staff woold be sent for oversees training generally only when discipline not available in India.
6/ Total of 12  .onth. con.ultant cost spread between MU research stations, See Tables 3 and 4.



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICfJLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Research Station. KariuganJ
(Rupees thousands)
Foreign
Year                         Total         Exchange
Quantity    Rn/m2    Area (m2)   Unit Cost            1         2         3         4          S       Cost         2    Cost
Civil Works
Laboratory/lectare rone                            1         (750)      (200)          150          50       100         -         -         -          150        -        -
-lass/screenhouse 1/                               1       (1,500)        (50)          75          -          50        25        -         -           75        -        -
Venn-n-proof, air co-ditioned, insulated
s,eed store                                      1       (1.500)       (50)           75          25        50        -          -         -          75         -        -
Staff quarters 2/
Sosuor professional                              1                                    50.0        50        -         -          -         -          50         -        -
Junior profosslos.l                              3                                    40.0        40        80         -         -         -         120         -        -
Seniar research assistants                      4                                     30.0        30        60         30        -         -         120         -        -
Fild assistants                                 4                                     22.5        23        45         22        -         -          90         -        -
Drivers and others                              4                                     18.0        18        36         18        -         -           72        -        -
Rehahblitation of e-iutig labs. offices            4                                                30         30        -         -         -           60        -        -
S5b-total              3/                                                                     266       451        95        -          -         812        -        -
Station development (202)                                                                           53         90        19        -         -          162      (19)      30
Sub-total                                                                                     319       541       114        -          -         974        -        -
Professional fees (12Y)                                                                             38         65        14        -         -          117        -        -
Sub-total                                                                                     357       606       128        -          -       1,091       (3)      30
Phy-bs 1a contingencies (10%)                                                                       36         61        13        -         -          110       (3)       3
Totall                                                                                        393       667       141         -         -       1,201        (3)      33
Fq-tp-ont and Veh-ules
Veh-cle - 4-wheel drive with trailer                                                                 60        -         -         -         -           60      (25)      15
L.aboratory equip.ent                                                                                20        20        26        -         -           66      (80)      53
Laboratorv and office tarnitare  4/                                                                 -          23        -         -         -           23        -        -
Pars equipment                                                                                      30         30        30        27        -         117       (15)      18
Office eqnip-nt                                                                                     10         10        -         -         -           20      (10)       2
Sob-total                                                                                     120        83        56        27         -         286      (31)      88
Physical centlngencces (l01 excluding vehicles)                                                       6         8         6         3        -           23      (30)       7
Total                                                                                            126        91         62        30        -         309       (31)      95
Tra-n-ng and Consultancy Service-  5/                                    Months
Fellowbhips: overseas (SE As-s)                                        (Three)          45.0
1                                                -         45        -          -         -          45       (75)      34
1                   (Twelve)         90.0        90        -         -          -         -          90       (90)      81
India                                                             6/                   2         2         2          2         2         10        -         -
Short-tory consultant                              1                   (One)    -        5/Month    2           1         1         1        -            5        -        -
Total                                                                                          94        48          3         3         2        150       (77)    115
Establiuhment costs (Incremental)
a) Salaries                                                                                          23       109       127       133       138         530        -        -
b)  -erati-g costs (-oclad-ng form)                                                                  10        10        10        10        20          60      (15)       9
PhScuial co-tingencues                                                                            1         1          1         1         2           6      (15)       1
Slb-total                                                                                      11        11        11         11        22         66       (15)      10
Total                                                                                          34       120       138        144       160        596        (2)      10
TOTAL                                                                                                 604       856       324       173       160       2,117      (11)    242
P'SIICAL CNTIlNGENCIES                                                                                 43        70        20         4          2        139       (8)      11
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                           647       926       344       177       162       2,256      (11)    253
Composite boiluing (40 m2 screenhoue., 10 n2 glasnhouse (soa-air-onditionnd)).
21  Proj-ct provides for 60% of full complement of scientific aad senior supp-rt staff.
3/ lnIncdes fencing, deep tubewell, farm roads, and electricit, and water distribution.
4/  15% of  baild-ng costs.
2! See Table 2, footnote 5.
6/   See Table 2, footnote 6.



ANNEX 8
YTable 4
INDIA
MESA AGRICULTUIAL DEVELOFPENT PROJECT
Shilloneani Retional Reserch  Station: Jute. Oilseed. Puls
Foreign
Year                          Total         Exchange
Quantity    Es/s2    Area (=2)    Unit Cost    1               2         3         4         5       Cost          X    Cost
Civil Works
Laboratory/offices/lecture root                     1       (  750)       (600)         450.0      150       300         -         -         -         450         -        -
Store/godown                                        I       (  500)       (200)         100.0       -        100         -         -         -         100         -        -
Class/screen house 1/                               1       (1,500)       ( 50)          75.0       25         50        -         -         -           75        -        -
Crop threshing floor (covered)                      1 I        250)       (200)          50.0       50         -         -         -         -           SO        -        -
Vermin-proof, air conditioned, insulated
seed store                                        1       (1,500)      (100)          150.0       75        75        -          -         -         150         -        -
Staff quarters 2/
Senior professional                               4                                    50.0       50       100        50        -          -         200        -
Junior professional                              10                                    40.0       80       240        80        -          -         400         -        -
Senior scientific assistants                     14                                    30.0       90       240        90         -         -         420        -         -
Field assistants                                 10                                    22.5       45        90        90         -         -         225         -        -
Drivers and others                                3                                    18.0       18        36        -          -         -          54         -        -
Sub-total                                                                                      583    1,231        310        -          -      2,124         -        -
Station development (202) 3/                                                                       117       246         62        -         -         425        (7)      30
Sub-total                                                                                      700    1.477        372        -          -       2,549        -        -
Professional fees  12:)                                                                            84       177         45        -         -         306         -        -
Sub-total                                                                                      784    1,654        417        -          -       2,855        -        -
Physical  -ontinoencies (Anl)                                                                       78       165         42        -         -         285        (1)       3
Total                                                                                          862    1,819        459        -          -       3,140       (1)      33
Equipment and Vehicles
Vehicles: 4-wheel drive with trailer                2           60                                   60        60        -         -         -          120      (25)      30
Laboratory equim-ent                                                                                 -        100       150       150        72         472      (80)    378
Farm equipment                                                                                       30       100        50        40        18         238      (15)      36
Laboratory and office furniture  4/                                                                  -         67        -         -         -           67
Office equipment                                                                                     20        30        -         -         -           50      (10)       5
Sub-total                                                                                      110       357       200        190        90        947      (47)    449
Physical contingencies (10%  escluding vehicles)                                                      5        30        20        19          9         83      (47)      39
Total                                                                                          115       387       220        209        99      1,030       (47)    488
Training and Con-ultancy Services-                                          (months)
Fellowships:   overseas                             2                        (one)        30         -         30        -          30        -          60      (65)      39
3                     (three)       - 45        45        45         45        -         -         135       (75)    101
6                       ( six)        65       130       130        130        -         -          390      (85)    332
4                    (twelve)         90       180        180        -         -         -          360      (90)    324
in India                                                                             10        10         10        10        10         50         -        -
Short-tern consultant                                                    (three) 6/       5/bMth      5         5         5        -         -           15        -       -
Total                                                                                          370        400       190        40        10      1,010                796
istablishment Costs
a) Salaries                                                                                          -         74       107       118        122        421        -        -
b) Operating costs (including farm)                                                                  50        50         50        50       100        300      (15)       45
Physical -ontingencies (107)                                                                                                               10 5  -L_5_ _ I_ _ 30  (17)   5
Sub-total                                                                                        55        55        55        55       110         330      (15)      50
Total                                                                                            55       129       162       173       232         751       (7)      50
TOTAL                                                                                               1,314    2,535         964       398       322      5,533       (18)  1,320
PhYSICAL CONTINCENCIES                                                                                  88       200        67        24        19        398        (4)      47
GAND TOTAL                                                                                          1.402    2,735    1,031          422       341      5,931       (17)  1,367
1/  Composite building (40 m2 screenhouse, 10 m2 glansho.se (non-airconditionedN.
2/ Provides for full complement of scientific and senior support staff.
3/  Includes water and electricity disthibution, road repairs, and drainage.
4/15% oi building cot.
S f ee Table 2, Footnote 5
See Table 2, Footnote 6



AMul 8
Table 5
IDMIA
ASSAM AGRICULTUFAL DEVELOPNElT PROJECT
ield Trials Stations (9) 1/
(Rupees thousands)
Foreign
Year                        Total        Exchanxe
Quantity    Arcs (02)   Rs/rn2      Unit Cost    1          2         3         4         5       Cost         X    Cost
2/
Citil Works
Laboratories and offices                          (9)        (100)      (650)        65.0        90      210       135       105        45        585
Ad,inistrative offices                            (9)         (20)      (650)        13.0        36       42        18        21        -         117
Godowm/garages                                    (9)         (80)      (450)        36.0        72      144        36        72        -         324
Cattle sheds                                      (9)         (20)      (500)        10.0        -        60        -         30        -          90
Staff quarters
Research officers                              (36)                                40.0      240       480       360       240       120      1,440
Research assistants                            (18)                                30.0       90       180       135        90        45        540        -        -
Field assistants                               (18)                                22.5        60      120       120        60        45        405        -        -
Sub-total                                                                                 588    1,236        804       618       255     3,501        (5)    180
Sites development (25%)                                                                         150      312       201       156        63        882
Sub-total                                                                                 738    1,548    1,005         774       318     4,383
Professional fees (12%)                                                                          90      186       123        93        39        531
Sob-total                                                                                 828    1,734    1,128         867       357     4,914        (4)    180
Physical contingencies (15%)                                                                    126      258       171       129        54        738        2       18
Total                                                                                     954    1,992    1,299         996       411     5,652       (4)    198
2/
Fquip.ent and Vehicles
Vehioles - 4-wheel drive diesel with trailer   (9)                                   60.0       360       -        180        -         -         540      (25)    135
Power tillers with ispletents/trailers                                                          180       -         90        -         -         270      (15)      41
8ullocks with implements                                                                        24        -         12        -         -          36        -       -
Snall farm equipment                                                                            60        78        30        39        -         207      (10)     21
Laboratory equipment                                                                            120      156        60        78        -         414      (80)    331
Training room visual aids                                                                        -        90        -         45        -         135      (25)      34
Office equipment/supplies                                                                        48        72       48        36        12        216       (5)      11
Office, etc. furniture                                                                           42        36       45        18        12        153        -
Sob-total                                                                                 834       432       465       216        24     1,971      (29)    573
Physical con-tigencies (10%  escluding vehicles)                                                 48       42        29        21         3        143      (32)     44
Total                                                                                     882       474       494       237        27     2,114      (29)    617
Z/
Trainini -J
Pro-service study tours
a) Overseos - 4 weeks                              9                                  8.5        51       -         26        -         -          77      (65)     50
b) India    - 8 weeks                             36                                  1.5        36       -         18        -         -          54        -       -
Is-service training - 2 weeks                     75                                  0.5       -          8         8        12        12         40       -
Total                                                                                      87         8        52        12        12       171      (29)      50
2/
Establishment Costs (Increnental)
a) Salaries                                                                                     180      432       804       930    1,071       3,417        -       -
b) Operating costs                                                                              288      474       720       813       864      3,159      (10)    316
Physical contingencies                                                                       30        48        75        84        90        327     (10)      32
Sab-total                                                                                 318       522       795      897       954      3,486      (10)    348
Total                                                                                     498       954    1,599    1,827    2,025        6,903       (5)    348
TOTAL                                                                                          2,217    3,080    3,169    2,838    2,328    13,632            (8)  1,119
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                                            204      348       275       234       147     1,208       (8)      94
CRASD TOTAL                                                                                    2,421    3,428    3,444    3.072    2.475    14.840           (8)  1.2
1/ Sin tc be started in year 1, three in year 3.
2/ Cost per FTS, see Table 6. See also Table 2, Footnote 5.



Table 6
ASSAM( AGRIaCLTURAL DEVELOPPEIT PROJECT
Field Tri    St tion (ea ch)
Quantity    Area (w2)    Rs/m2    Unit Cost    1              2       Yr                           Totalt
Civil Works
Laboratory and office                              (1)        (100)        (650)      65,0         15        35        15        _         _          65        _        _
Admin.strative office                              (1)          (20)       (650)       13.0         6         7        -         _         _          13
Godown/garage                                      (1)          (80)      (450)        36.0        12        24        -         _         _          36
Cattle sheds                                       (1)          (20)       (500)       10.0        -         10        -         _         _          10
Staff quarters
Research officers                                (4)                                40.0        40        80        40        -         -          160
Research assistants                              (2)                                30.0        15        30        15        _         _           60
FPeld assistants                                 (2)                                22.5        10        20        15        -         -           45
Sub-total                                                                                    98       206        85        -         -         389
Site development (25%) 1/                                                                          25        52        21        -         -          98                20
Sub-total                                                                                   123       258       106                            487        -        -
Professional fees (12X)                                                                            15        31        13        -59                            -        -
Sub-total                                                                                   138       289       119        -         -         546        (4)     20
Phys-cal contingencies (15%)                                                                       21        43        18        -                    82       (2)       2
Total                                                                                       159       332       137        _         -         628                22
Equipment and Vehicles
Vehicle - 4-wheel drive (diesel with trailer)  (1)                                    60.0         60        -         -         -         -          60      (25)      15
Power tiller with implements/trailer               (1)                                 30.0        30        -         -         -         -          30      (15)       5
Bullocks with implements                           (2 sets)                             2.0         4       -          -                               4        -        -
Small farm equipment                                                                  23.0         10        13        -         _         _          23      (10)       2
Laboratory equipment                                                                   46.0        20        26        -         _         _          46      (80)      37
Training room visual aids                                                              15.0        -         15        -         _         _          15      (25)       4
Office equipment/supplies                                                              24.0         8        12         4        -         -          24       (5)       1
Office, etc. furniture _                                                               17.0         7         6         4                             17        -
Sub-total                                                                                   139        72         8        _         _         219      (29)      64
Physical contingencies   (excluding vehicles)                                                       8         7         1        _                    16      (38)       6
Total                                                                                       147        79         9        _                   235      (29)      70
T-ini3ng3593
Pre-service study tours
) Overseas           - 4 weeks                      1                                   8.5         9       -         -         _         -            9      (65)       6
b) India             - 8 weeks                      4                                   1.5         6       -         _         _         _            6
In-service training - 2 weeks                       8                                  0.5        -           1         1         1         1          4
Total                                                                                        15         1         1         1         1         19      (32)       6
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
a) Salaries 4/                                                                                     30       72       119       119       119        459        -        -
b) Operating costs 5/                                                                              48        79       96         96       96        415      (10)      42
Physical contingencies (10%)                                                                    5         8        10        10        10         43       (9)       4
Sub-total                                                                                    53        87       106       106       106        458      (10)      46
Total                                                                                        83       159       225       225       225        917       (5)      46
TOTAL                                                                                               370      513       343        216      216      1,658        (8)    123
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                                               34       38         29        10        10        141       (9)     12
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                         484     571       372        226       226      1 799        (6)    135
I/  Includes land development, irrigation development, farm roads, fending, and electricity connection and distributio.n
2/ 15% building cost.
3/ See Table 2, Footnote 5.
4/  For salaries breakdown, see Annex 3, Appendix 8, Table 7,  Assumes 25% peraonel in place in year 1, 60% in year 2.
5/  Includes farm  labor priced at Rs 6/day (450.an-days/ha/year). building maintenance at 57. construction cost, and
seed, fertilizers, and pesticides at 0.5/ba, and miscellaneous including repairs at 0.3/ha.



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staffing (Costs) for Field Trials Stations,and Field Trials Cell at AAU
No. of   Salary Scale    --Annual Total Cost ('000 Rs)
Posts    (Rs/Month)       Salaries 1/    Allowances    Total
For 1 Field Trials Station
Associate Professor (Agronomist)                           1      1,200-1,900         19              1.9         20.9
Assistant Professors (Soils, Pathology, Entomology)        3        700-1,250         35              3.4         38.4
Research Assistants                                        2        400-  900         16              0.6         16.6
Field Assistants                                           2        275-  475          9              0.4          9.4
Accounts Clerk                                             1        375-  700          6               -           6.0
Typist                                                     1           300             4               -           4.0
Watchman                                                   2           250             6               -           6.0
Peon                                                       1           250             3               -           3.0
Driver                                                     1           950             3                           3.0
Power-tiller Operator                                      1           250             3               -           3.0
Mechanic/Helper                                            1           250             3               -           3.0
Sweeper   2/                                              1            250             3               -           3.0
Farm Labor-                                               1            250             3               -           3.0
Total                                                                                113              6.3        119.3
Field Trials Cell, AAU
Joint Director of Agriculture                             1       1,200-1,900         25              1.9         26.9
Associate Professor (Production Economist)                1       1,200-1,900         19              1.9         20.9
Assistant Professors (Statistician, Ag. Engineer)          2        700-1,250         23              2.4         25.4
Research Assistants (Statisticians)                       2         400-9 900         16              0.6         16.6
Accounts Clerk                                            1         375-  700          6               -           6.0
Typist                                                    1            300             4                           4.0       
Drivers                                                   2            250             6               -           6.0
Total                                                                                 99              6.8        105.8
1/ Including 5% cost    living allowance (dearness allowance);
2/ Farm labor hired at daily rate (Rs.6.0/manday) included in operating costs in Table 6.



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Field Trials Cell, AAU Jorhat
(Rupees Thousands)
--------  ---YEAR -----------------                           Foreign Exchange
Quantity       Unit Cost       1        2         3         4        5         Total                     Cost
Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicle -- 20 Seat Minibus (diesel)                     1              100          100       --       --        --        __          100         (25)         25
Vehicle -- Sedan 2/                                     1               32           32       --       --        __        __           32         (25)          8
Machinery & Farm Implements                             --             --            10         5         5        5         5          30         (10)          3
Miscellaneous Equipment                                 __             __            10       --       --        _-        __           10         (10)          1
Electronic Calculators                                  2                5           10       --       --        __        __           10        (100)         10
Sub-Total                                                                        162         5        5         5         5         182         (25)         47
Physical Contingencies (10%,  excluding vehicles)                                  3         1         1        1         1           7         (14)          1
Total                                                                               165         6         6         6        6         189         (25)         48
Training
Pre-service Study Tours
a) Overseas -- 4 weeks                               1                8.5          9       --       --        --        --            9         (65)          6
b) Domestic -- 8 weeks                               1                1.5          2       --       --        --        --            2           --        --
In-service Training -- 2 weeks                          8                0.5        --          I         I         1        1           4           --        __
Total                                                                                11         1         1         1         1         15         (40)          6
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
a) Salaries 3/                                                                       79       106       106       106      106         503           --        --
b) Operating Costs 4/                                                                35        35        35        35       35         175         (43)         75
Physical Contingencies                                                             4         4         4         4        4          20         (40)          8
Sub-total                                                                         39        39        39       39        39         195         (43)         83
Total                                                                               118       145       145       145       145        698          (12)        83  ,.t
TOTAL                                                                                  287      147       147       147       147         875         (14)        128  
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                                   7        5         5         5         5          27                       9  X00
GRAND TOTAL                                                                            294      152       152       152       152         902         (15)        137
1/ Offices, furniture, staff quarters and central services to be provided by AAU without charge;
2/ For JDA ;
3/ 75% in year 1;
4/ Includes vehicle operating costs -- minibus 25,000 Km/year at Rs. 0.40/Km, Sedan 25,000 Km/year at Rs. 0.60/Km.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENqT PROJECT
Groundwater Development - Costs Summary 1/
(Rupees thousands)
Foreign
Y    e    a    r                   Total         Exchange
1          2          3         4        5      Cost       (%)      Cost
Support for Irrigation Department
(Including Survey.Monitoring
and Mapping Programs)
Civil Works                                 506        256          -          -    -          762       -           4
Equipment and Vehicles                      744         65          -          _    _          809    (22)         169
Training and Consultancies                   51         64          -          -    -          115       -           -
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Salaries                                  430      1,213      1,075        611    -       3,329       -            -
Operating Costs                           205        293        273        289    -        1,060    (11)         118
Subtotal                                1,936      1,891      1,348        900    -       6,075       (5)        291
Physical Contingencies                     87         62         27         29    -          205      (6)         14
Total                                   2,023      1,953      1,375        929    -       6,280                  305
Technology Development
Civil Works                                 160        216          -          -    -          376       -           -
Equipment and Vehicles                      109        133          -          -    -          242    (15)          36
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
Operating Costs                             4          8          -          -    -           12      (5)          1
Subtotal                                  273        357          -          -    -         630       (6)        37
Physical Contingencies                     27         35          -          -    -           62      (6)          4
Total                                     300        392          -          -    -          692      (6)        41
TOTAL                                       2,209      2,248      1,348        900             6,705      (5)        328
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                        114          97        27         29    -          267      (6)         18
GRAND TOTAL 1/                              2,323      2,345      1,375        929             6,972      (5)        346
1/ Does not include shallow tubewells and low liEt pumps which would be financed by long term credit, and is
estimated to cost Rs 115 million excluding Price contingencies.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tubewells and Low-Lift Pumps
(Rupees thousands)
Quantity      Unit Cost    Total Cost
Power-Pumped Shallow Tubewell            (12,500)         7.71 -        96,375
Low-Lift Pumpset                          (2,500)         6.94I-        19,260
Total                                            115,635
1/  Power-Pumped Shallow Tubewell (80 mm diameter/3.5 hp)         (Cost in Rupees)
a.  Upper well casing (80 mm PV) 18 m at 31/-                        558
b.  Screen (80 mm C. PVC)          10 m at 45/-                      450
c.  Drilling and installation    30 m at 15/-                        450
d.  Testing and development                                          132
e. Pipe, fittings and
priming pumps                                                   280
f. 3.5 hp diesel engine or
electric motor with direct
coupled centrifugal pump                                      5,540
g. Miscellaneous, including
administration and allow-
ance for unsuccessful wells                                     300
7,710
2/ Low-Lift Pumpset
a. 3.5 hp diesel or electric
pumpset                                                       5,540
b. 35 m flexible 4" diameter
delivery and suction pipe
with inlet strainer and
footvalve                                                     1,400
6,940



MIA"
ASSI jZICDLTURAL Dg!WPHltT PROJECT
Jkjlkke,,J r IriftOiOnrmn  (ntlodin,
INda         eltrnsi.  sod 5urrer Proarm)
(xuPss l thousands)
-                                Tom~~~~~~~fa                     Total      fr1   Excg~han
Quantity    UniL Cost       z jo/u2       1            2            3            4         3      Cat                    Cstb
Civil Works
luilding - 31.2                         2             14          (4 50)         2s                 -            -          -               2_                    -
Station development 1/                  2             40                         80          -            -            -         -          so     1 5)           4
Land. rods.  iscellansous               2            120                        240          -            -                                240       -            -
Insalltion of walls (nonitoring)                                                 60         204           -            -         -        264        -            -
Existing deep wells (pumping tests)                                               -          38           -                                 38              - 3
Shallow wlls (pumping tests)
- special tests                                                               81           -           -            -         -         81        -            -
- conventional                                                                17          14           -                 -              31        -            -
SUb-total                                                                    506         256           -            -        -         762      C-)            4
Physical  ontingencies (102)                                                      51         26           -           -         -           77
total                                                                            557        262           -            -         -        83S      ( -)           4
KAUitEut and Vehicle
Vehiele - 4-haal drive with
trailer                                5          60.0                         300          -            -            -         -        300      (25)          75
Tractor with trailer                    4           60.0                         240         -            -            -         -        240      (25)          60
Vehicle - sedan                         1           32.0                          32         -            -            -         -          3Z     (25)           8
Bicycled                               50           0.5                          25          -            -            -        -          25      ( 5)           1
Audio - visual equipment               4 sets       3.4/sat                       14         -            _-                     -         14      (20)           3
ohe nict  tools                       20 sets       1.0/6st                       20         -            -            -         -          20     (10)           2
Drafting equipwent                    20 seto      0.35/sat                        7         -            -            -         -           7     (10)           1
Survey equipment                                                                 21          -            -            -         -         21      (20)           4
Other aquipment (pumping tasts)                                                  20          -            -            -         -         20      (10)           2
(monitoring)                                                    65          65           -           -         -         130      (10)          13
Sub-total                                                                    744          65                                           s o -  809  (22)      169
physical contingencies                                                           15           7          -            -         -          22                     2
Total                                                                           759          72           _            _         -        831      (21)         171
Trainina
Fellowhips. in India
- (three months)                    12          3.0                           18          18           -                                36        -            -
- (twelve mmnths)                    4          9.0                           18          18           -            -        -          36        - 
Sbort cours   - Assam                  30          1.0                           10          20           -            -        -          30        -            -
Study trip    - India                  10          1.3                            5           8 a                      _        _          13       -            -
tal                                                                               51         64           -            -         -        115        -            -
aetablishmet Costs (Inerxm_ntal)
a) Selaries
- irrigation departunt:
sub_-4giners 2/                              6.2                      (10) 62   (20) 124    (20) 124    (20) 124          -         434
sub-ngineers 13/                             6.2                      (10) 62   (20) 124    (20) 124    (20) 124          -         434
water managememnt aperts. /                  6.0                            -   (10)  60    (10)  60    (10)  60          -         L1o
drett_m  5/                                  5.0                      (10) 50   (20) 100    (20) 100            -         -         250
sectional aasistants/
Mechanics                                   3.7                      (25) 93   (50) 184    (50) 184    (50) 184          -         645
support staff                                3.0                           54        UP           119          119       -         411
Sub-total                                                                    321         711          711         611        -       2,354
- pump     tots .6/                                                           82         131           58           -        -         271
- eonitorng aetwork .7/                                                       13          31           36           -        -          80
- mapping i/
draftsmen                                                                  14          76            6          -         -          96
field survsyors                                                             -         264         264           -         -         528
Sub-total                                                                    109         302         364            -        -         975
Total Salaries                                                               430       1.213        1.075          611       -       3,329
b) Operating Costs
- travel allowe xc                                                            30          40           45           52       -         167
- other operatin  coats                                                      175         253          228          237       -         893      (15)        118
Sub-total                                                                    205         293          273          289       -       1,060      (11)         118 
Physical contInencies                                                             21         29           27           2 29     -         106                    12
Sub-total                                                                    226         322          300          318       -       1,166      (11)         130
Total gtablishast Costs                                                         656       1.535        1.375          929        -      4.495      t 3)         130
TOTAL                                                                            1.936      1.891        1.348          900        -      6.073      ( 5)         291
MICAL aytTlUUCIS                                                                    87         62           27           29       -         205                    14
CRAIM TOTAL                                                                      2.023      1.953        1.375          929       -       6.280      ( 55         305
1/  Includes t_*ell, roof storaga water tanks, septic txeks. etc.
For collecting  _d completing tubewll lom applications of faners.
1/ For empervislug tubevell installation and trpairs.
j   Om  per two blockx.
O/ ta px  block to record  eil sites, atc.. *  constructed.
67 Three grompe of appro.1motely ten ve, mad drivers.
/  Three m   in yoer 1  tee in Veras  2 and 3 to conduct the initoltjug.
Toen tre  of eight aen to survy umapped ares, and 16 draftse
am-yars to produce,   e from tbhe surveys ed exzititg  maps.



DnCz 9
Table 4
INDIA
ASSM AGRlCULTURAL DIVZL0PKUNT PROJECT
Technolov Dvelo
Rupee. thousndse
Quan-             Number                                                  Foreign
tity/    Unit/      of             Y   e   a   r              Total       Exchange
Schme    Coat   Schemes   1          2      3      4     5    Cost    (          Cost
Civil Worts
Small Electric Pu=Pe t Schmes -
W.ll Points                                  35       0.6       3       21      42      -     _     _       63
Electrification                                                         35      70      -     -            105
Pendulum Pump Schmes -
Well Points                                  20       0.6       4       24      24      -     _     _       48
Cuatom Service Schem   -
Shallow Wells                                20       2.0       4       80      80      -     -     -      160
Subtotal                                                                 160     216      -     -     -      3760
Physical Contingencies                                                    16      22      -     -     -       38
Total                                                                    176     238      -     -      -     414
Equipment and Vehicles
Small Electric Pumpeet Schenme -
1-HP Pumps                                   10      2.4        3       24      48     -      -     -       72
Pendulum Pump Schems -
Pendulum Pumps                               20       0.375     4       15      15      -     -     -       30
Custom Service Scheme -
3.5 HP Diesel Pumpsats                        7      5.0        4      70       70     -      -     -      140
Subtotal                                                                 109     133      -     _     _      242      (15)     36
Physical Contingencies                                                    11      13      -     _     _       24      (15)      4
Total                                                                    120     146      -     -      -     266      (15)     40
Established Costs (Incr_n tal)
Small Electric Pupset Sche*s -
Miscellaneous Including
Adminiatration and Supervision                                           4       8      -     -     -       12       (5)      1
TOTAL                                                                      273      357     -     -      -     630       (6)     37
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                      27      35      -     -      -      62       (6)      4
GRAND TOTAL                                                                300     392      _     _      _     692       (6)     41
1/ Comprises three smell electric pumpeet schemS at Ra 83,500 each (excluding contingencies), four pendulum pump schemes at
Rs 19,500 each (excluding contingencies) and four custom sorvice schems at Rn. 75,000 each (excluding contingencios).



ANI= 10
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMZNT PROJECT
!touitoring and Evaluation -
(Rupees thousands)
Foraign
DI-At                   Y   a   a   r                       Total          Exeh nge
Quantity    CoEst       1         2         3         4         5        Cost                  Cost
Equipmsnt and Vehicles
Vehicle - 4-Wheel Drive (hedquarters)            1      5S.0        55         -         -         -         -          55       (25)        14
Vehicle - Nbtorcycle (District)                 8        6 0        48-           _     _         _                     48       (25)        12
Total                                                         103       _         _         _          _         103       (25)        26
Establishment Costs (Incremental)
I.  Hadquarters
A.  Salariea
Senior Agricultural Economist          1      1Si 0       15        15        15        15        15          75         -
Agricultural Ecaomeist                 2      1l.0         26       26        26        26        26         130         -          -
Statistician                           1      12.0        12        12        12        12        12          60         -          -
Support Staff                          6       6.0        36        36        36        36        36         10          -          -
Subtotal                                                  89        89        89        89        89         445         -          -
B.  oparating Costs
Office                                                     5        10        10        15        15          55        (5)         3
Vehicle-                                                  13        13        13        13        13          65       (30)        20
Subtotal                                                  18        23        23        28        28         120       (19)        23
Physical Contingenies                                       2        2         2         3         3          12       (25)         3
Subtotal                                                  20        25        25        31        31         132         -         26
II. Divisional (8)
A.  Salaries
Agricultural Economisd/
Statistician                        8        9.0        72        72        72        72        72        360         -          -
Support Staff                       8x2        6.0        96        96        96        96        96        480         -         _
Subtotal                                                 168       168       168       168      168         840         -          -
B.  Operating Costs
Office  3/                                                16        24        24        24        24        112         (5)        6
Vehicles-                                                 32        32        32        32        32        160       (30)        48
Subtotal                                                  48        56        56        56       56         272       (20)        54
Physical Contingencies                                     5         6         6         6        6          29       (17)         5
Subtotal                                                  53        62        62        62       62         301       (20)        59
Subtotal                                                     323       336       336       341       341      1,677         (5)       77
Physical Contingencies                                          7        8         8         9         9          41       (20)         8
Total                                                        330       344       344       350       350      1.718         (5)       85
Consultancies - Special Studies
Irrigation Monitoring                                               50        50       50        50        50         250         -          -
Other                                                              300       300      300       300       300       1.500         -         _
Total                                                        350       350       350       350       350      1.750         -          -
TOTAL                                                                776       686       686      691       691       3,530        (3)       103
PRYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                 7         8         8         9        9          41       (20)         8
GRAND TOTAL                                                          783       694       694      700       700       3 571        (4)       111
1/  Buildings, furnishings and central services to be provided by Department of Agriculture.
2/ 20,000 ki at 0.65/km.
ai 10,000 km at 0.4/ka.



AINNEX 11
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Price Contingencies
(Rupees thousands)
Year                           Total
1_       2         3         4        5         Cost
Civil Works 1/                                 9,362   17,115   11,596        996       411      39,480
Price contingencies 3/                         655    2.738    2.899        349       189       6.830
Total                                       10,017   19,853   14,495    1,345         600     46,310
Vehicles                                       5,358    3,152    1,675        500       --       10,685
Price contingencies 4/                         321      441       369       150       -         1-281
Total                                        5,679    3,593    2,044        650       -       11,966
Laboratory Equipment 1/                          209      413       426       361       134       1,543
Price contingencies 5/                          15        62      102         9
Total                                          224      475       528       480       189      1,896
Other Equipment I/                             2,271    1,589       752       244        53       4,909
Price contingencies 4/                         136      223       165        73        20         617
Total                                        2,407    1,812       917       317        73      5,526
Training in India, Domestic Consultan-
cies 2/                                      1,323    1,596    1,697    1,698    1,714         8,028
Price contingencies 4/                          79       223      373       509       668       1,852
Total                                        1,402    1,819    2,070    2,207    2,382         9,880
Training Overseas                                795       750      381        30       -        1,956
Price contingencies 4/                          48      105        84         9      -           246
Total                                          843      855       465        39      -         2,202
Incremental Salaries                           2,620    4,742    6,019    6,210    5,751        25,342
Price contingencies 4/                         157      664    1,324    1,863    2,242         6,250
Total                                        2,777    5,406    7,343    8,073    7,993        31,592
Incremental Operating Costs 1/                 3,347    5,228    6,934    7,251    7,172        29,932
Price contingencies 4/                         201      732    1.525    3,041    2,797         8.296
Total                                        3,548    5,960    8,459   10,292    9,969        38,228
TOTAL (including Physical Contingencies)   25,285   34,585   29,480   17,290   15,235    121,875
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      1,612    5,188    6,841    6.113    5.971        25,725
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS-'                        26,897   39,773   36,321   23,403   21,206    147,600
1/ Includes physical contingencies.
2/ Includes physical contingencies on extension training only.
3/ 7% in 1977 and 8% thereafter. Assuming average year 1 expenditures for civil wsrks occur in
March'78, the compounded contingencies for project years 1-5 would be 7%, 167%, 25%, 35%, and
46% respectively.
4/ 6% in 1977, 7% thereafter. Assuming average year 1 expenditures occur in March, 1978, the
compounded contingencies for project years 1-5 would be 6%, 14%, 22%, 30%, and 39%
respectively.
5/ 7.5% during 1977-79, and 7% thereafter. Assuming average year 1 expenditures occur in
March, 1978, the compounded contingencies for project years 1-5 would be 7%, 15%, 24%, 33%
and 42% respectively.
6/ Does not include shallow tubewells and low lift pumps, see footnote to Annex 6.



ANNEX 12
Table I
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedulel/
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter             Disbursement (US$ Million)
Quarterly       Cumulative
FY 1978
I 2/
II
III                                        0.1             0.1
IV                                        0.2             0.3
FY 1979
I                                       0.3              0.6
II                                        0.4             1.0
III                                        0.4             1.4
IV                                        0.5             1.9
FY 1980
I                                       0.5              2.4
II                                        0.7             3.1
III                                        0.7             3.8
IV                                        0.8             4.6
FY 1981
0.7             5.3
II                                        0.6             5.9
III                                        0.6             6.5
IV                                        0.5             7.0
FY 1982
I                                       0.4              7.4
II                                        0.3             7.7
III3/                                      0.2             7.9
IV-=                                      0.1             8.0
1/ Calculated from Annex 11 using 2-3 quarter lags in disbursements.
2/ Estimated date of effectiveness, October 31, 1977
3/ Estimated completion date, June 30, 1982.



ANIIZX i 2
Table 2
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative Schedule of Incremental Staff Appointments
Y    e    a    r
FY78      FY79       FY80    FY81       FY82
Extension (Annex 2)
Headquarters
ADA (Extension)                                            1         1         1         1        1
SMS                                                        2         2         2         2        2
Subdivision
SDAO                                                       4         5         6         6        6
ASDAO                                                     13        19        23        23       23
sHs                                                        6        20        32       32        32
VLEW                                                       302       448       664       780      780
Research (Annexes 3 and 8)
Rice Research Station, Titabar-/
Senior Professional Staff                               (2)-      (2)-      (2)1     (2)1      (2)1
Support Staff - Field and Laboratory                    (2)-     <2)5    (2)10    (2)10    (2)10
Rice Research Station, Kariuganj
Senior Professional Staff (Station Head)                   1         1         1         1        1
Junior Professional Staff                                  1         3        '3         3        3
Senior Research Assistants                                 2         5         5        5         5
Support Staff - Field and Laboratory                       3         6         6         6        6
Regional Research Station, Shillonganil'
Senior Professional Staff                               (2)-      (2)-      (2)1      (2)1     (2)1
Junior Professional Staff                               (2)-      (2)-      (2)1     (2)1      (2)1
Laboratory Support Staff                                   -         4         8         8        8
Field Trials Stations (9)
Senior Professional Staff (Associate Professor)            -         6         6         9        9
Junior Professional Staff (Assistant Professor)            6        12        21        24       27
Senior Research Assistants                                 6         6        15       15        18
Field Support Staff                                        6        12        15        18       18
Field Trials Cell, MU
JDA (Field Trials)                                         1         1         1         1         1
Senior Professional Staff (Associate Professor)            1         1         1         1        1
Junior Professional Staff (Assistant Professor)            2         2         2         2         2
Research Assistants                                        2         2         2         2         2
Groundwater Development (Annex 4)
Irrigation Department
Subengineers-2                                            20        50        50        50        -
Draftswen3/                                               20        40        40         -        -
Hechanics/Sectional Assistants                            25        50        50        50        -
/  Figurea in brackets indicate currently sanctioned but vacant noata (asee Annex 3. Tables 2 and 6). If in
same discipline,these would be filled prior to appointment of incremental staff under the project.
2/ Half for processing tubevell applications, half to supervise tubevell installation.
3/  Half for mapping program, half for updating maps at block level to reflect new tubeiell
installations, etc.



ANlNEX 12
Table 3
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementa1:ion Schedule - Buildings
Stage                    Activi'ty-                         Estimated Date
1     Establish buildings implementation cell-=              Nov. 1977
2     Start preparation of alternative design
and cost solutions                                  Ongoing
3     Complete survey to determine exact number
and location of VLEW housing                        March 1978
Other
VLEW Housing   Buildings
4     Completion of alternative design solutions    Completed        Oct. 1977
5     Approval of alternative design solutions        Completed      Dec. 1977
6     Completion of land selection_/                  June  1978    June 1978
7     Completion of working drawings, specifica-
tions, and tender documents                   Nov.  1977    Jan. 1978
8     Approval of working drawings, specifica-
tions and working documents                   Dec.  1977    Feb. 1978
9     Bids received, evaluated and approved           Jan.  1978    Mar. 1978
10     Construction started32                          Feb.  1978    Apr. 1978
11     Selection and surveying of 3 additional
FTS sites completed                                -        June 1978
12     Construction started -- additional 3 FTS             -         June 1979
13     Buildings ready for occupancy (target date)   June  1980    June 1980
14     Buildings ready for occupancy (date with
six-month allowance for delays)               Dec.  1980    Dec. 1980
15     Buildings ready for occupancy (additional
FTS)                                               -        June 1982
1/  The cell would consist of at least one engineer
and support staff as required. It would: design buildings,
prepare tender documents, assist in prequalifying contractors, evaluate
tenders, supervise construction, prepare monthly progress reports and
prepare disbursement application forms.
2/  Land already owned by GOA.
3/  Construction phased over three years (25% year 1, 50% year 2, 25% year 3),
with first houses started in February 1978. Construction period is
November to May.



Preametaite      Rtfff! ct e             A 2        A    A4      1         A    i    10    It    IA       13     A    IA      16    17   IA    IA        20    21    11    23    I
bLAOLUARTERS
Appoint ProJect    sger
1. Staff
Appint ADA (Et.e.sism)
Ap"ist SHS (HQ)
Seletio. of ASOAO and SIIS
2. Eqnip   t & Vehicles
f.pasr tCender dscmsets/
tender                                                            _ _ _ _ _ _                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Evaluate tenders
purchase                                                                                          _____
Prepare list t-r uff.helf purchases
Off.heIf pseehase
3. Civil W-eks -- S.e Tabl 3
4 E.i-.aent for Staff
Assist AEO purchase mt-scycles_
Assist VLEW purchase bicyulus                                            _
hottr-ycle trainiug
RESEARCH
*. Staff
Appoint JLA (field trials)
Appalut research scientist
S:lrtE chief scientist (AAU)
research)                1/
:esict heeds uf 5TS (6)
Se eciiun fur fell-vthips
2. EasisLent and Vehicles
prepare tender d-c.Dtet/teed-r
Evaluate tenders
Pre-sre list fee effaheIf
Off.heIf pareh..e                                                           =
3. Ciril Werhe -- See Table 3
4. Ce..ultn.y Visits                                                             ___
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT
1. Staff
Appeint Water M.a-gfuDt
Offi-ere
Appeint shb-engineere
Appeist draftmen
Felleaship seleCtis_
2. EesiP,-.t sod Vohiclen
Prepare tufdte dcut.es1s/
t  d er/ --  puapeet-
Prepare tender decsmste/
tender -- ether-
Evaluate tenders
Ptrha.e Pts.ets.
Purchase ether vehieles
and equipment                                                                                     __________
Prepare list far uffehelf
psechases
Offehelf purchase
3. Civil Weka
PrePe fa-   tbe         1  ppli-
install   tahmeselle   0/                                                                 _______________
Install go tbdter mnitaring
MDIiTORING A PVALUAXTION
1. Staff
App.ist sEriceltarl esasmian (HQ)
Appuist stetistiian (HQ)
pp,ist n        ricsRtsral scanus./
statisticias (Assintantl
2. Cuaduct bh h.r-k  studies
3 Pur-hb-se squit 3/
1/ Heeds of edditiseal 3 5TS to be  eletted by and ef yr 3;
2/ Tbheelis ti bh  instl-led dariag dry  mese.appre.q_tnly  N             -AprRl
3/ Fisld survey esrk ales tR be eeduoted denial dfy se.sme of y..e 3.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTIJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Yield Increases- and Financial
and Economic Analysis of Investment in STW
A. Expected Yield Increases-
The Extension Message
1.        Extension advice has in the past emphasized use of high doses of
inputs. Most farmers have neither the cash 2/ for these inputs nor the
skills to use them effectively, and input use has been limited (see Annex 1).
Under the project, a different extension approach would be adopted starting
with recommendations that can increase yields with little or no cash input
and progressing, as the farmers' ability and cash surplus rises, to more
costly means of production. Inizial emphasis would thus be given to low-cost
imlrovements in cultural practices by the more effective use of family labor
and existing resources. This would include improved preparation of paddy
seedbeds, improved land preparation, optimization of plant populations and
adoption of line sowing or transplanting, better weed control, and increased
use of farmyard manure and compo,ts. Simultaneously, timing of crop planting
would be stressed, allowing farmers to make better use of rainfall and resi-
dual moisture for rainfed crops, thus increasing cropping intensity of both
irrigated and rainfed crops.
2.        Once cultural standards have improved, extension packages would
be developed emphasizing low use of purchased inputs. The first inputs to
be promoted would be improved or high-yielding varieties and seed treat-
ment, both relatively cheap and zapable of giving marked yield improve-
ments (in view of the relative fartility of soils in much of the plains
area, fertilizer use would generally be kept to a later stage in the ex-
tension sequence, except on paddy seedbeds). Pesticides would be stressed
from the outset on paddy seedbeds and for seed treatment; otherwise it
would be recommended only for emargencies. After better cultural practices,
seed, and limited use of pesticiles, low fertilizer doses (around 25 kg
nutrient per ha) would be recommended and this would build up until routine
1/   For assumed packages of practices.
2/   In Assam, use of institutional credit has been negligible and what
little credit has flowed has generally not been available to small
farmers.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
use of pesticides and higher doses of fertilizers could be generally recom-
mended, after several years and as the final step in the sequence. How-
ever, the above-average farmer who has already mastered the basic techniques
would not be denied more advanced advice at an earlier stage if appropriate.
Expected Yield Increases
3.        In practice, details of extension recommendations would vary be-
tween regions and would be locally adapted by the Field Trials Stations to
be established under the project (Annex 3). It is assumed, however, that
the sequence of recommendations outlined can be consolidated into approx-
imately the following sequence of packages, to be introduced progressively
over a period of several years.
Package la  -  improved cultural practices only;
Package lb  -  la plus improved (or high-yielding) varieties;
Package 2   -  lb plus sub-optimal doses of fertilizer
(about 25 kg total nutrients per hectare)
on local varieties;
Package 3a  -  lb plus 50 kg total nutrients and routine
pesticide use;
Package 3b  -  lb plus 100 kg total nutrients and routine
pesticide use.
Yields of farmers adopting these practices could be expected to increase as
follows (details are given in Table 1).
== about 25% gain from improved cultural practices (package la)
This is below gains recorded in farmer trials (Annex 1)
and are less than those reported by responding farmers in
Nowgong District, where the reorganized extension service
has been operating for two crop seasons;
-- a further 20% gain from the adoption of improved (or high
yielding) varieties (package lb). On supervised farmer
trials with HYV Ahu rice without fertilizer, yields averaged
2.1 tons/ha, almost double the present state average; in weed
control trials on Sali rice, yields were more than double
the state average (Annex 1);
-- a fertilizer response ratio ranging from 5:1 on rainfed
crops to a maximum of 10:1 on some irrigated crops
(packages 2, 3a and 3b);



ANNEX 13
Page 3
-- a 15% gain from rcutine use of pesticides (packages
3a and 3b).
Details of packages and expected yields are in Table 1.
4.        In addition to the scope for increasing yields, possibilities
for increasing cropping intensities are considerable (Annex 1, para 19 ff).
Again, supervised trials have demonstrated the possibility of triple rainfed
cropping by small farmers in the Jorhat area, with double cropping on the
flood-prone areas. Farmers in a number of areas are already achieving a
cropping intensity of about 170%.
5.        The rate at which farmers adopt these practices and increase crop-
ping intensity would determine the rate of increase in production. Only a
minority of farmers could be expected to adopt the more advanced packages 3a
and 3b, even after six years exposure to the extension system. However, if
on average, farmers moved into extension packages l(a) and l(b), yields would
increase by about 35%.
B. Financial Analysis of Investment in STW
6.        Four models have been used to examine the financial and economic
viability of a 3.5-5 hp STW. 1/ Two models refer to a 2 ha holding, in one
case flood-free (II), and in the other flood-prone and hence of lower poten-
tial cropping intensity (III). A third examines the benefits for a larger
flood-prone holding of 4 ha (IV). For all these models it is assumed that
those investing in a STW would be the more progressive farmers showing a high
response to extension (reaching packages 3a or 3b after six years). The mar-
ginal returns to irrigation are calculated in comparison to responsive rain-
fed development, which is also assumed to reach the top packages at full de-
velopment. While it is reasonabLe to suppose that only the more potentially
responsive farmers would buy a tubewell, lest it should be considered that
only the optimum cases have been examined, the fourth model (I) considers a
3 ha flood-free holding where the farmers shows a low response to extension
and reaches only packages la or Lb; in this case the marginal returns are
compared to equivalent "low response" rainfed development. The models are:
Model        Farm Size (ha)          Land type          Management
I                  3                Flood free         Low response
II                 2                Flood free         High response
III                2                Flood prone        High response
IV                 4                Flood prone        High response
1/   For discussion of the need for irrigation in Assam see Annex 4, paras
2 and 3.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
7.        Full details of costs, investments and benefits are presented onlv
for the 3 ha low-response model (I) and are given in Tables 2 (hectare crop
budgets), 3 (financial costs and benefits with irrigation) and 4 (financial
costs and benefits for rainfed development). Models assume irrigation by
purchase of a STW at Rs 7,500 borrowed in year I at an interest rate of 13.5%
(with repayment over 5 years after a 2-year grace period). Other assumptions
are given in Tables 2-4.
8.        The following financial prices (based on 1976 farmgate) and eco-
nomic prices (based on Bank Commodity Forecasts, amended for transport and
handling) have been used:
Financial           Economic
--------- Rs /Ton ---------
Rice                            1,095              2,200 /a
Wheat                           1,050              1,250
Pulses                          1,600              1,800
Oilseeds                        3,000              2,200
Jute                            1,400              2,000
Sugarcane                         100                100
Coarse Grain                      700                750
/a   Annex 14, Table 3.
9.        Details have not been shown for Models II, III and IV though the
major additional assumptions are given in Table 5. Table 5 summarizes the
net increment in annual cash balance for all four irrigated models and their
rainfed alternatives, 1/ followed by the marginal gain generated by the
investment in irrigation.
10.       All irrigated models show a doubling of cash income by full develop-
ment. However, the marginal gains from irrigation on the 2 ha flood-free "low
response" farm (I) and the 2 ha flood-prone "high response" farm (III) are
small at full development and negative for several of the earlier years. The
following rates of return were calculated on the marginal benefit from invest-
ment in irrigation:
1/   It is worth noting that the rainfed models show an increased cash
income throughout the development. Moreover, in most years it would
be possible to cover the increase production cost for one season from
the increased earnings of the previous season, suggesting that seasonal
credit may not be essential for these farmers; hence the strategy
of development to be adopted under the project would be highly
attractive.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
Return with 25% Reduction
Model            Rate of Return            in Benefit Stream
I                    67%                             24%
II                > 100%                          > 100%
III               Negative                        Negative
IV                > 100%                             36%
This shows that on flood free land, investment in irrigation is financially
attractive, even on a 2 ha farm, if the farmer is sufficiently progresssive.
However, on flood prone land farmers with less than about 3 ha would be finan-
cially better off without a STW, unless the STW is subsidized.
C. Economic Analysis of Investment in STW
11.       Assumptions for calculating the economic rate of return to invest-
ment in a STW are mainly in Table 5, but using economic prices. Family labor
is shadow priced at Rs 3 per manday and investment costs charged at the time
they are incurred. Taxes have been excluded. The opportunity cost (benefit
stream under rainfed conditions) has again been deducted from the benefit
stream under irrigation. Rates of return are as follows:
Model                 Rate of Return
II                        55%
III                       41%
IV                        82%
showing that investment in STW is economically sound.



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Assumed Extension Packages and Yields Ct/ha)
-----------------------      _________________----Package---------------------
0           la                    lb                      2                    3a                    3b
Improved Practices       No           Yes                   Yes                     Yes                  Yes                   Yes
Improved/HYVs             No          No                    Yes                     Yes                  Yes                   Yes
NPK Total (kg/ha)         0           0                     0                      25                   50                   100
Seed Treatment            No       (optional)           (optional)                  Yes                  Yes                   Yes
Other Pesticides          No     (emergencieg          (emergencies>          (emergencies)          (routine)             (routine)
Response
Yield    % gain  Yield    Additional   Yield    Response   Yield            ratio,   Yield    Response   Yield
t/ha              t/ha        % gain      t/ha       ratio    t/ha         % Rain   t/ha         ratio    t/ha
Rainfed Crops
Ahu rice                 0.6     35 2/    0.81          25         1.01        5:1       1.14    5:1, 15       1.45         -       -
Sali and boro rice       1.0     25        1.25         20         1.504/      5:1      1.63    5:1, 15       2.01          -       -
Wheat                    1.1     25        1.38          -            -        5:1       1.51    5:1, 15       1.87         -       -
Pulses                  0.4      25        0.50         20         0.60        5:1      0.73      -            -            -       -
Coarse grains           0.50    25         0.63         20         0.75       5:1       0.88    5:1 , 15      1.15          -        -
Oilseeds                0.4      25        0.50         20         0.60        5:1      0.73      -             -           -        -
Jute                    1.15    25         1.44         20         1.73        5:1       1.86    5:1, 15      2.28            3/    -
Sugar cane 11          30        25       38            20        45       9 tons.3/   54        6 tons.!a   60        5 tons-    65
Irrigated Crops
Ahu rice                0.8      35~-/     1.08         25         1.35       10:1       1.60    8:1, 15       2.07        6:1       2.37
Sali and boro rice      1.2      25        1.50         20         1.80       10:1       2.08    8:1, 15       2.59        6:1       2.89
Wheat                    1.5     25        1.88          -          -         10:1       2.13    8:1, 15       2.67        6:1       2.97
Pulses                  0.5      25        0.63         20         0.75       10:1       1.00    8:1, 15       1.38         -        -
Coarse grains           0.8      25        1.00         20         1.20       10:1       1.45    8:1, 15       1.90        6:1       2.20
Oilseeds                0.5      25        0.63         20         0.75       10:1       1.00    8:1, 15       1.38         -        -
Jute                    1.3      25        1.63         20         1.95       10:1       2.20    8:1, 15       2.76         - 3/     -
Sugar canel!           45        25       56            20        68       l2tons3/   80         8 tons.!    88         6 tons-      94
- Fertilizer doses 50, 100, 150 kg nutrients/ha for packages 2, 3a and 3b respectively.                                                1-t
- Includes change from broadcast to transplanting.
4/ From Statistics of crop responses to Fertilizers (FAO).
- All wheat is HYV already.                                                                                                            I -



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVEIDPHENT PROJECT
Hectare Crop Production Budgets (Model I)
(Shoaing Quantities (Q), Cash and Economic Costs in Rs)
Ahu rice            Salftboro rice              Wheat               Pulse               Oilseeds                 Jute                Sugar cane
VITHOUT PROAECT                    S    C Cash    Ec.                                           c. c   MC.  Q   Cash    Mc.  *   cash   cc Cc                    Q.              Caeh    Ec.
RAINFED
Seed                   (kg)       75      4      4       25     .4      4      100    108    108       30    -    -        5            -         5      1       1      4t        80     80
Seed treatment          (a)       10     -      -        10        -      -       -       -                  -            _                      -      - _           (heat)      20     20
Total NPK              (kg)        4     16     16        1      4      4        5     20     20       -        -         -      -      -         4      16     16      10        40     40
m                       (t)      1.2     -      -       1.2     -      -       1.5     -      -       1.0    -    -      1.0     -       -      1.5     -       -      2.0        -       -
Labor  (m.d.)      F             6.7     -     201       67     -     201       56     -     168       45    -   135      45     -     135       80     -      240     134        -     402
H  (251)      23    138    138       23    138    138       19    114    114       15    90   90      15     90      90      28    168    168        46      276    276
bullocks (pr.d.)   F              47     23     23       47     23     23       47     23     23    14.6      7    7   14.6       7       7      47      23     23      94        46     46
H (2.51)       1      10     10       1     10      10       1      10     10     0.4      4    4    0.4      4       4        1     10     10        2        20     20
Pesticides             (kg)    0.25       5       5    0.25      5      5        5      6      6       -     -    -       -      -       -     0.25       5      5    0.25         5       5
Total cost           (Re)             196    397             184    385             281    449.           101  236            101    236              223    463   .           487    n9
Yield                 (t)    0.65                    1.06                   1.19                   0.40               0.40                   1.19                   37.4
Value                 (Rs)            712  1,430           1,161  2.332           1,250  1,488            640  720          1,200    880           1,666  2,380              3,740  3,740
Net return           (Rs)             516  1,033             977  1,947             969  1,039            539  484          1,0"    644            1,443  1,917              3,253  2,851
FULL DEVWPEI1r (Low Reapone)
InlIGATED
Seed                   (kg)       35     14      14      25     18     18      100    108    108       30     15    15    5       5       5     2.5       8     11        4t     560    560
Seed treatent           (a)       50      1       1      50      1      1       -      -       -       10      2      2   -      _-          -       -          -      (heat)     40      40
Total NPK              (kg)     22.5     90      90    22.5     90      90      30    120    120      3.5     14    14  3.5      14      14      20:    80      80        55     220    220
FY1                    (t)         3     -       -        3     -       -        3     -       -        2     -      -     2     -       -        3      -      -          5      -       -
LAbor (a.d.)       1              84     _     252       80     -     240       70     -     210       52     -    156   52             156      96      -     288       157             471
N (30X)       36    216    216       35    210    310       30    180   10        23    138   138   23    138    138         41    246    246        68      408    408
Bullocka (pr.d.)  F               52     25     25       52     25     25       52     25      25      15      8      8   15      8       8      52      25     25       104      50      50
N  (51)        3      30     30       3     30      30       3      30     30       1      10    10    1      10     10        3     30      30        6       60     60
Pesticides            (kg)      0.75     15     15    0.75      15     15       15     19      19    0.75     15    15 0.75      15      10    0.75      15     15       1.5      30      30
Total cost           (Rs)             391    643             389    629             482    692             202   358          190    341              404    695             1,368  1,839
Yield                (t)      1.47                   1.93                   2.20                   0.71               0.71                   2.05                       74
Value               (Rs)            1,610  3,234           2,113  4,246           2,310  2,750           1,136 1,278        2,130  1,562            2,870  4.100             7,400  7,400
Het return           (Rs)           1,219  2,591           1,724  3,617           1,828  2,058             934   920        1,940  1,221            2,466  3,405             6,032  5,561
LAINM   (BEST ALTERNATIVE)
Seed                  (kg)        75     15      15      25      5      5      100    108    108       30     10    10    5       3       3       3       8     11        4t     480    480
Seed treatment          (a)      100      2      2       50      1      1       _      -      -        10      2      2-         _-              -       -      -      (heat)     40      40
Total NPK              (kg)     12.5     50      50    12.5     50      50      20     80      80       2       8     8    2      8       8    12.5      50      50       45      180    1e0
FIH                     (t)        3     -       -        3     -       -        3     -       -        2     -      -     2     -       -         3            -          5       - 
Labor (-.d.)       F              80     -     240       77     -     231       66     _      198      49     -    147   49      _      147       92     _     276       154       -     462
H (307)       35    210    210       33    198    198       29    174    174       21    126   126   21    126    126         40    240    240         66     396    396
Bullocks (pr.d.)   F              52     25      25      52     25      25      52     25      25      15       8     8   15       8      8       52     25      25      104       50      50
H  (5X)        3      30     30       3      30     30       3      30     30        1     10    10    1      10     10        3      30     30         6      60      60
Pesticides            (kg)       0.5     10      10     0.5     10      10      12     15      15     0.5      10    10  0.5      10     10      0.5     10      10        1       20     20
Total cost           (Rs)             342   52              319    550             432    630              174   321          165    312             363    642              1,226  1,668   3jU
Yield                (t)      0.94                   1.40                   1.49                   0.45               0.45                   1.61                     47.6                    _
Value               (Rs)            1,029  2,068           1,533  3,080           1,565  1,863              720   810        1,350    990           2,254  3,220              4,760  4,760
Iet return          (Ra)              687  1,486           1,214  2,530           1,133  1,233              546   489        1,185    678           1.891  2,578              3,534  3,072   '4"
1/ Since yields have been sbout stagnant for the pet decade, the '"itbout project" situation Is assumd to be the b           as present.



AMYRX 13
INDIA                                          Table  3
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVEWPNENT PROJECT
yinancial Benefits and Costs from Investment La a S1W (Model 1)
(Low Response Farmer on 3 ha Flood Free Land)
-_____________________.__-----YEAR- ---------------------------------
Item                         Year 0         1        2         3        4         .5       6         7         8 Onvard
1/                     (Without Project)
Crops (ha)
Ahu rice                          0.76         1.00      1.10     1.20    1.28      1.32       1.35
Sali rice                         2.16         2.30     2.38      2.45    2.50      2.53       2.55  1
Wheat                             0.06         0.20      0.30     0.38    0.48      0.57       0.66      Same for Year 7 and
Pulses                            0.11         0.12     0.13      0.14    0.14      0.15       0.15  1 8 Onrards
Oilseeds                          0.24         0.22     0.20      0.18    0.16      0.14       0.12  |
Sugarcane                         0.07         0.10     0.12      0.14    0.16      0.17       0.18  1
Others                            0.15         0.14      0.13     0.12    0.11      0.11       0.10  1
Total                             3.55         4.08     4.36      4.61    4.83      4.99       5.11    5.11         5.11
Yields (t/ha)
Ahu rice                          0.65         1.10     1.20      1.28    1.35      1.41       1.47  1
Sali rice                         1.06         1.45     1.55      1.65    1.75      1.84       1.93  J Stme for Year 7 and
Wheat                             1.19         1.75     1.85      1.95    2.04      2.12       2.20  I 8 Onwards
Pulses                            0.40         0.55     0.59      0.63    0.67      0.69      0.71  1
Oilseeds                          0.40         0.55     0.59      0.63    0.67      0.69       0.71  |
Sugarcane                        37.40        55.00    62.00    68.00   70.00    72.00       74.00  I
BENEFITS (Rs)
Gross value of production        3,865        6,406    7,459    8,464   9,450   10,250    11,017  11,017          11,017
Less family consumption 3/       1.000        1,067    1.133    1.200   1.267    1.333        1.400   1.400        1.400
Total cash income                2,865        5,339    6,326    7,264   8,183    8.917       9,617   9,617         9,617
COSTS (Rs)
Operating costs         5/         673          986    1,214    1,456   1,709    1,949       2,187   2,187         2,187
Pump fuel & maintenance             -         1,314    1,377    1,433   1,482    1,518       1,545   1,545         1,545
Implement repair                    20           20       30        30      30        30        30       30           30
Sub-total                          693        2,320    2,621    2,919   3,221    3,497       3,762   3,762        3,762
Contingencies (10%)                 69          232      262       292     322       350       376      376          376
Sub-total                          762        2,552    2,883    3,211   3,543    3,847       4,138   4,138        4,138
Purchased implements      7/        10           90      220        20      20        20        80      220          20
Debt service and interest           -           506      506    2,006   2,006    2,006       2,006   2,006           -
Land revenue tax  8/               120          120      120       120     120       120       120      120         120
Total Costs                        892        3,268    3,729    5,357   5,689    5,993       6,344   6,484        4,278
Net Cash Balance                 1,973        2,017    2,597    1,907   2,494    2,924       3,273   3,J33        5,339
Incremental Cash Balance            -            44      624       (66)    521      951      1,300   1,160        3,366
1/ See Table 7 for cropping pattern and intensity assumptions;
2/ Based on change in cropping patterns and intensity above;
3/ Assumes rise in value of consumption from Rs.l,000 in Year 0 to Rs. 1,400 in Year 6;
4/ Tables 2 and 3, but assuming 30% of labor on 3 ha farm is hired;
5/ Average application of 400 mm/ha cropped; pumped at 8 1/sec. this requires 140 hours pumping/ha; pumping cost
equivalent to 1 diesel at Rs. 1.38/ha + 15% for lubricants, i.e., Rs. 1.60/ha, plus Rs. 400/yr for spares and
service;
6/ Investment of Rs. 7,500; Repayment in 5 years after 2 years grace period, at 13.5% over 7 years;
7/ Hand tools, including a plough and weeder (Rs.60) in year I and 6, and a seeder (Rs. 200) in years 2 and 7;
8/ Rs.40/ha/yr.



ASSAMl AIRICUILTURAL DEvEDPmEtfr PROJECT
Financial Benefits and Costs, Rainfed  dMode  I!
(Beat Alternative to Investment in STW. seTble 3)
-------------------EAR -----------------
Item                               Year 0          1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8 Onward
Crops tha) l/            ~(Without Project)
Ahu rice                                0.76          0.80      0.83      0.85     0.87      0.89      0.90 
Sali rice                               2.16          2.18      2.20      2.22     2.23      2.24      2.25 
Wheat                                   0.06          0.10      0.14      0 18      0 20     0.22      0.24 I
Pulses                                  0.11          0.13      0.15      0.17     0.19      0.20      0.21 ~ "Aine for Year 7 and
Oilseeds                                0.24          0.26      0.27      0.28      0.29     0.29      0.30 I8 Onward
Sugarcane                               0.07 -        0.08      0.09      0.09     0.09      0.10      0.10
Others                                  0.15          0.16      0.16      0.17     0.17      0.18      0.18 I
Total                                   3.55          3.71      3.84      3.96     4.04      4,12      4.18    4.18          4.18
Yields (tiha)
Ahu rice                                0.65          0.72      0.78      0.82      0.86     0.90      0.94  1
SaLk rice                               1.06          1.14      1.20      1.27      1.32     1.36      1.40 
Wheat                                   1.19          1.26      1.32      1.38      1.42      1.46      1.49I
Pulses                                  0.40          0.41      0.42      0.43      0.44     0.45      0.45  ISame, for Year 7 and
Oilseeds                                0. 40         0.41      0.42      0.43      0.44      0.45      0.45  18 Onward
Sugarcane                              37.40         39.50    42.00    4400    45.50    46.60    47.60 
BENEFITS (Rs)
Gross value of production              3,865         4,353    4,743 -5,155    5,444    5,756    6,014   6,014                6,014
Less family consumption                1.000         1.067    1,133    1.200    1.267    1.333    1.400   1.400             1.400
Total cash income                      2,865         3,286    3,610    3.955    4,177    4,423    4,614   4,614              4,6144
COST (Re)
operating   Costs
Cash Inputs                            673           797       922    1,045    1,161    1,292    1,412   1,412             1,412
Implement repair                        20            20        30       30        30        30        30       30            30
Sub-total                              693           817       952    1,075    1,191    1,322    1,442   1,442             1,442
Contingencies (10t)                     69            82        95       108       119      132       144      144           144
Sub-total                              762           899    1,047    1.183    1,310    1,454    1,586   1,586              1,586
Purchased implements                      10            90       220        20        20        20        80      220           20
Land revenue tax                         120           120       120       120       120       120       120      120          120
Total Costs                              892         1.109    1,387    1,323    1,450    1,594    1,786   1,926              1,726
Net Cash Balance                       1,973         2,177    2,223    2,632    2,727    2,829    2,828   2,688              2,888
Incremental Cash Balance                 --204                   250       659       754       856       855      715          915
I/ See Table 7 for cropping pattern and intensity assumptions.



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Models -- Cash Flows (Rb)
Present/
Without Project
Annual Net       ----------------- lcrem ntal Net Value of Production-----------------
Farm                                                 Cash          --------
Model      Size (ha)       Land Type        ManaRement         Balance        1       2        3       4        5       6        7       8         9-20
WITH INVESTMENT IN STW
a/
r-            3            Flood-Free       Low Response       1,975           45     625      (65)    520      950   1,300   1,160   1,860       1,860
II            2            Flood-Free       High Response        980          775   2,340   1,805   1,985   3,565   4,205   4,160   4,080         4,760
III           2            Flood-Prone      High Response      1,255         (405)    950       80      110   1,415   1,760   1,715   1,635       1,815
IV            4            Flood-Prone      High Response      2,985          870   2,160   1,675   1,730   4,160   4,495   4,370   5,090         5,090
RAINFED
I A-          3            Flood-Free       Low Response       1,975          205     250      660      755     855      855     715      915       915
II A          2            Flood-Free       High Response         980         425     915   1,130   1,185   1,800   1,820   1,775   1,875         1,875
III A         2            Flood-Prone      High Response      1,255          360       95   1,065   1,010   1,705   1,635   1,590   1,690        1,690
IV A          4            Flood-Prone      High Response      2,985          590   1,560   1,890   1,820   3,095   3,025   2,900   3,100         3,100
MARGINAL INCREASE IN CASH FLOW
I B           3            Flood-Free       Low Response                     (160)    375    (725)   (235)       95      445     445      945       945
II B          2            Flood-Free       High Response                     350   1,425      675      800   1,765   2,385   2,385   2,205       2,885
III B         2            Flood-Prone      High Response                    (765)    855    (985)   (900)   (290)    125        125      (55)       125
IV B          4            Flood-Prone      High Response                     280      600    (215)    (90)  1,065   1,470   1,470   1,990        1,990
ADDITIONAL ASSUMPTIONS
Hired labor:               20% for 2 ha, 307 for 3 ha and 40Z for 4 ha farm, at Rs. 6.00 per man/day.
Crop budRets:              Cropping patterns and intensities Riven in Table 7; high response models assume annual progression of packages from
la  through  to 3b -- see Table 1 for quantities and yields;
Water requirements (mm):  Ahu rice 350, sali rice 100, wheat 200, pulses and oilseeds 125, sugarcane 500 under Assam conditions.  Pumping time
assumed 0.33 hr per ha/mm, at an operation and maintenance cost of Rs 2.10/hr.
a/ Table 3;
b/ Table 4.



INDIA
ASSAM ACRICULlTIIAL aVBWENPl  PRJncT
Economic Analys   of Invstm_nt in SSll
Prevent/                                           (In Rupee)
p1ithout Project
Annual                          --------------Icremntl   t Value of Productio.
Net  Value  of          __-------------------------------- -----------------YEAR----------_----      __--__--___-- __-- __-- __-- ___-- __--__--__--
Production            1       2        3       4        5       6       7        a       9-11        12        13-15        16       17-20
MODEL II C (2 Ha. Plood-Free. lieb Rasnonn)
Benefit (with SIW)                                 3.470               835   1,895   2,395   2,445   4,045   4,170  4,125    4.225    4,225          4,225      4.225      4,225       4,225
opportunity Cost (Rainfed)                         3,470            (5.495)  3 790   5s530   6,070   9.275  116085 11,040    6,140   11.140         8,605      11,105      6.105      11.105
Marginal Increase                                                   (6,330)  1,845   3,135   3,625   5,230   6,915  6,915    1,91S    6,915         4,30        880        1,800       6,8W
IODEL III C (2 Ha, Flood-Prone, l4h LOpoae2
Benefit (with STW)                                 3,445               510   1,420   1,820   1,815   3,135   3,105  3,060    3,160    3,160          3.160      3,160      3,160       3,160
Opportunity Coct                                   3,445            (6.085)  2.825   4.105  44250   7.000   8.070  8.030   33125    8.130           5 590       8,090      3.090       8.090
artinul Increase                                                    (6,595)  1,405   2,285    2,435   3,865   4,965  4.970        (35)   4.970       2,430      4.930        (70)      4.430
IOU6L IV C (4 Ha. Flood-Pron.  Hi8gb ReSponse
Benefit (with STW)                                 6,470             1,020   2,770   3,510   3,495   6,080   6,055  5,930    6,130    6,130          6,130      6,130      6,130       6,130
Opportunity Cost (Rainfed)                         6,470            f4.550)  5.660  8.135  8.630  13 810  15.930 15.810  11005 _16.005    13.470               15:970    10. 970     15.970
Marginal Increase                                                   (5,570)  2,890   4,625   5,135   7,730   9,875  9,880    4,875    9,875          7,340      9,840      4,480       9,740
ADDITIOHAL ASSUMPTIONS
Hired labor: 20X of total for 2 ha farm, 401 of total for 4 ha farm at Re. 6.00/man-day.  Fmily labor shadow priced at Rs. 3.00/man-day.
Water r       "'uiri-ntu (elm): Ahu rice 350, Sali rice 100, wheat 200, pules and oilseeds 125, sugarcane 500.
Wu_in2 ti and cost: Assuoed 0.33 hr./ha/m, wLith operation and maintenance cost the us_e as in financial models at Rs. 2.10/hr.
Input and equipment costs: Charged at currant financial prices.
investment cost: Charged In full to year of purchase.
Texes: Omitted.



ANNEX 13
Table 7
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern and Intensities: Assumptions
The following cropping pattern and cropping intensities have been assumed
for flood-free and flood-prone models based on a 4 ha farm (Yr. 0 based on statewide
averages 1/):
-------FULL DEVELOPMENT-----
Yr 0               With STW               Rainfed
---------------------ha------------------------
Flood-Free
Ahu                        1.0                  1.8                    1.2
Sali                       2.9                  3.4                    3.0
Wheat                      0.1                  0.9                    0.3
Pulses                     0.1                  0.2                    0.2
Oilseeds                   0.3                  0.2                    0.4
Sugarcane                  0.1                  0.2                    0.2
Other                      0.2                  0.1                    0.3
4.7                  6.8                   5.6
Cropping Intensity      (118%)               (170%)                 (140%)
Flood-Prone
Ahu                        1.1                  1.8                    1.2
Sali                       1.4                  1.8                   1.2
Wheat                      0.1                  1.2                    0.5
Pulses                     0.3                  0.2                    0.5
Oilseeds                   0.4                  0.2                   0.6
Jute                       1.2                  0.8                   1.2
4.5                  6.0                   5.2
Cropping Intensity      (113%)               (150%)                (130%)
1/ See footnote, Table 2.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Extension and Research Component
1.        Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project
is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to exten-
sion and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in Assam to
estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is
no doubt that, the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization
of existing resources, which would be brought about by the project, would
generate a high rate of return. To illustrate this, a test has been performed
showing the increases in rice production required to generate a 50% economic
rate of return on the incremental costs involved.
2.        The attached Table 1 shows that to realize a 50% economic rate of
return, annual incremental production value by year 7, at 1976 prices, would
need to reach about Rs 75 M (US$8.3 M). This could be achieved with an annual
increase in rice production of about 43,000 tons statewide, equivalent to an
average yield increase of 20 kg/ha (30 kg/ha paddy), or less than 2% over the
"without project" situation. Experience with reorganized extension services
in other States of India suggests that there would be little risk that yields
would not increase by an average of at least 20 kg/ha, since this is well
below gains recorded in farmer trials where yields double the present State
average has been achieved, and is less than gains reported by responding
farmers in Nowgong District, where the reorganized extension service has been
in operation for two crop seasons. Moreover, as discussed in Annex 13 (para
3), yield increases of up to 25% could be expected largely from improvements
in cultural practices with little additional input other than increased farm
labor. Based on present average yields of 1.0 ton/ha, this would amount to
250 kg/ha. Thus only 8% of farmers would need to increase yields by 25%
(250 kg/ha) to generate a 50% economic rate of return.
Assumptions
3.        The life of the project is assumed to be 20 years and no residual
value is attributed after that period.
4.        In deriving the cost stream, extension, research and training costs
have been aggregated. The groundwater component has not been included as it
will irrigate only about 52,500 ha (less than 3% of the plains area) and,
unlike the extension and research component, cannot be measured against the
total area grown to rice (para 4a) Financial and economic analysis of the
groundwater program is in Annex 13.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
5.        No residual values have been placed on buildings or equipment.
Financial prices have been used for all cost items. The foreign exchange
component is slight, so that shadow pricing of foreign exchange costs would
have a negligible effect on the result and is not attempted.
6.        The benefit stream has been derived on the following assumptions:
a) that benefits required would be measured against the
area grown to rice (about 2.14 M ha);
b) that benefits would accrue as follows:
Year                    Percentage
1
2                          10
3                          30
4                          60
5                          80
6                          90
7 onwards                 100
c) an economic price of rice of Rs 2,200 per ton, based on
Bank Commodity Price Forecasts (Table 2). This has been
adjusted to take into account the incremental cost to
the farmer of producing an additional ton of rice, esti-
mated at Rs 440.



INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
-----------------COSTS (Rs.'000)-------------------  ----------------BENEFITS--------------------------
Incremental          Incremental         Total     Discounted  % of Ultimate         Discount      Present Value
Year     Extension Costs      Research Costs      Cost       at 50%       Benefit Achieved   Factor         Factor of Benefits
1          15,792                6,387            22,179      14,771           --             o.666              --
2          21,437               10,109            31,546      14,006           10             0.444           0.044
3          21,204                6,207            27,411       8,113           30             0.296           0.088
4          11,468                4,193            15,661       3,085           60             0.197            0.118
5          11,033                3,502            14,535       1,904           80             0.131            0.105
6          11,033                2,864            13,897       1.208           90             0.087            0.078
7-20       11,033                2,864            13,897       2,418          100             0.174           0.174
45,505                                          0.607
The annual incremental revenue from rice (in 1976 prices) required from year 7 onward to achieve a 50% economic rate of
return is Rs 45.505 M  or Rs 75 M.  Based on an economic price of rice of Rs 1760/ton (para 6 c), this is equivalent to
42,6Q0 tons rice statewide, or 20 kg/ha.
M
{Dl



ANNEX14
Table 2
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Price of Rice
Rs./Ton      Rs./Ton       US$/Ton
Price milled rice 25%-35% broken f.o.b. Bangkok                                  234
Add c.i.f. to Calcutta and handling to
wholesale market                                                                35
Price in Calcutta wholesale market                             2,421           269
Less transport, mill to wholesale market2/          116.7
Less handling and margins-                           36.3
153.0
Millgate price (milled rice)                                     2,268
Less transport, farm to mill-                        22.7
Less milling and handling-5/                         45.5
68.2
Farmgate price of rice                                           2,200
Farmgate price of paddy                                          1,467
1/ Bank Commodity Price Forecasts, November 23, 1976; 1985 forecast for milled
rice 5% brokens at US$ 359.4/ton x 0.65 for price of 25% - 35% brokens;
2/ Approximately 250 Km haul at Rs. 0.67/Qtl for 15 Km plus Rs.0.04/Qtl/Km over
15 Km;
3/ At 1 1/2% Calcutta Price;
4/ Rs. 1.5/Qtl of paddy;
5/ Rs. 20/Ton paddy for milling, plus Rs 10/Ton paddy commission and other charges.






-28'                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28'-
INDIA                                                                                                               .- z                        7
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                    * 'w,'TINSUKI
DISTRICTS,SUB-DIVISIONS,RESEARCH AND FIELD TRIAL STATIONS,AND PROJECT GROUNDWATER AREAS                                                                                               ATNSUKIA K.
.7    LAKHIp P      7        D I B R G A
SUKULIBORA             "                   '
/A
B       H        U        T       A        N                                     .                                    \    A K H I M PLUR/ -_
7'/>  L    >   --  vI SI B SAGARA 
r _ X _                                   rF_ \ - X r E Z  PU  R                                                          I B SGA /
I           g .                            D   (A    R    R   A    N    G          ,__                            JORhAT
K K  K R A  J H AR R                                                                                                   ,-._-    C *
TAXA. NN A L B A R I  MANGALDO  l                                                  ' A)                      \I    T TaAR4r
'ALA-                                                                                          - - AKRi E  0  -  - -R (/    - ,5   l 
r              9        )        / PAIRAU$Kt'   /   >yg               {/      of   N   O <  O,N  G  )                 M  I K I  R  v 
C   /-  _  MORIGAON          4                   H I   i          r_
-Z +  {GO     L                P A R                    T' ~__' a    |- 4  T                                                         (
! <.,  I I        i)                                    J\    L 9 Gp J                  Z
b  /    4 N D  N                                    0     20    40    60        80    100    1?O    140    160
'n1                                                 MILES
90                                                                                                           " r                                       10s  )  o   l  2;0  30  40  5 0  60   70   80  9)0  100
A      .,                                              KILOMETERS
^N< g CHIA                                                                                %  ?rvC       osfaLn.y  )  -.
:<  S   C H I N A                                                     (              '--(           .2
Prolect Groundwrter Areas
U            i/ ';v n  Bl/UTUU    r'. -BN TAN*    AAU Research StatIons
<  (N<.s<>J.. _)MAHAKAL           /^A   Field Trial Stations
_   V '?  *{rw                                     KAR FCANJ                            r                                            o    Assam Agricultural Unwversity, Jorhat
<   I NDC I A                                                              J,   C   A   C   H   A   R                                                    *    State Captal
I N7 D I                                                                                                                                             ---BURMA      International Boundaioes
B ,<8AN GLUOrS5t                                                                                                                        -        State Boundaries
t   Sr   lv                            \                ..         g/                                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~~~~~District Boundraries
U-u\U                                   r                                                             eUT4 r ! / Sub-D wso n cl    Bound aries
Z~~~~~~          0A fr     ~     pld1eb}.: 
J N 0 A I           Rn                  o1                                                                                                                                                                0]
LI .I )24-                                                                                                                                                                                     96'        24' O-



