Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2067-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 16, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at May 31, 1977)
Rs 1.00                 Paise 100
US$1.00          =     Rs 8.81
Rs 1.00          =     US$0.1135
Rs 1 million           US$113,500
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 9.00).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms Used in this Report
AEO       -    Agricultural Extension Officer
ARDC      -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOA       -    Government of Assam
GOI       -    Government of India
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
VLEW      -    Village Level Extension Worker/s



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:            The State of Assam.
Amount:                 US$8 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:        From GOI to GOA:   As part of Central assistance for
State development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Project Description:    The project would consolidate and strengthen the
agricultural extension services in eight of Assam's
nine districts, covering 97% Df the State's popula-
tion and a total cropped area of 2.7 million ha,
develop and upgrade adaptive research, and lay the
base for longer term improvements in groundwater
development. The project com-oonents include:
-   completion of reorganizatLon and strenth-
ening of agricultural ext'ansion services;
-   development and strengthening of adaptive
research;
-   strengthening of Assam's 'rrigation Depart-
ment; and
-   creation of project monitoring and evaluation
facilities.
Thi documont hss a mtricted distribution and may be Wed by recipients only in the perforfmne
of their offical dutie Its contents may not otherwise be disclod without World Bk authorition.



Estimated Costs:                                              (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total
Extension                       7.7       0.6      8.3
Research                        2.7       0.5      3.2
Strengthening of
Irrigation Department         0.7        *       0.7
Monitoring and Evaluation       0.4        *       0.4
Sub-total                 11.5       1.1     12.6
Physical Contingencies          0.9       0.1      0.9
Price Contingencies             2.6       0.2      2.9
Total Project Cost        15.0       1.4     16.4
* Less than US$50,000
Financing Plan:                                                (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total
IDA                             6.6       1.4      8.0
Government of Assam             8.4        -       8.4
Total                     15.0       1.4     16.4
Estimated
Disbursement:                                           (US$ million)
FY78   FY79    FY80   FY81   FY82
Annual               0.3    1.6     2.7    2.4    1.0
Cumulative           0.3    1.9    4.6     7.0    8.0
Consultants:              The Project would provide a total of about 12
man-months of local consultancy services.
Rate of Return:           At least 50%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 1535a-IN, dated June 14, 1977.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$8 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project to reorganize and strengthen agricul-
tural extension services to upgrade and develop adaptive research, and to
lay the base for longer term improvements in groundwater development in the
State of Assam. The proceeds of this credit would be channelled to the
Government of Assam in accordance with the Government of India's standard
terms and arrangements for financing of state development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY-/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 640 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is in part: the result of the
low availability of investible resources: the net trarnsfer of resources
from abroad has never been above 3% of GNP, and fell tc) as little as 0.8%
between 1969/70 and 1973/74; similarly, while India's domestic savings ef-
fort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
the rate has very rarely exceeded 17% of GNP. The investment rate puts India
in the lower third of all developing countries. More significant perhaps is
the fact that in spite of a marked rise in the investment rate from about 10%
in the early 1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen years, the trend in GNP
growth has remained about the same. This indicates a marked decline in the
efficiency of capital use, as a result of increasing capacity underutilization,
long project gestation, and increased emphasis on relatively capital intensive
projects and sectors.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Report No. P-2011-IN), dated May 2, 1977.



- 2 -
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes of US$70
per annum (converted at the official exchange rate) and US$250 on a purchasing
power parity basis.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. Undoubtedly, changes in economic policies
and emphasis will be formulated in the course of the next few months. The
state of the economy was not a prominent election issue; in fact the economy
was generally stronger than at any time in the last six years. Although the
growth of GDP in 1967/77 is not expected to have exceeded 2%, this was on top
of the very good growth of 8.8% in 1975/76. Agricultural production is ex-
pected to have fallen by about 3%, but only because of the return to a more
normal harvest of 110-114 million tons of foodgrains after the record 121
million tons of the previous year. Industrial growth was around 10% in 1976/77,
which is significantly above the rates achieved in the late 1960's and early
1970's. Exports continued their bright performance, rising by 18% in US dol-
lars and 12% in volume terms. The overall resource position, with record
foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exceptionally strong, and gives
the Government considerable room for maneuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to
remarkably good weather conditions; the good crop in 1976/77 - a foodgrain
harvest in the region of 110 million tons would be the second largest on
record - was produced under generally normal weather. A conspicuous change
was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by more than 20% over 1975/76,
following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial production bene-
fited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of installed capacity
in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import policy, relatively
good power availability, and increased demand because of higher consumer
incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures. However, whole-
sale prices which had fallen 14% from September, 1974 through March 1976,



- 3 -
rose 11% from the end of March to December, 1976 and continued rising into
1977. It is not yet clear whether this upsurge indicates a new inflationary
trend or merely a correction of the previous sharp decline in the relative
prices of a range of agricultural commodities.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign ex-
change reserves, to a level of US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the trade deficit
is estimated to have fallen by US$1,080 million, due to a rise of US$845
million in exports and also to a fall of US$235 million in imports, primarily
because of lower prices and volumes of foodgrains and Eertilizer imports. The
decreased trade deficit, along with a further increase in the net inflow of
miscellaneous capital and invisibles from abroad of US$540 million, more than
offset the fall of US$350 million in net aid and the substantial repurchases
of currency from the IMF, and allowed a US$1.5 billion addition to reserves,
which reached a level of US$3.7 billion at the end of M4arch 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the new Government the op-
portunity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task
is to raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%.
In the long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But
it will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptablly low, at about 2.5% per
annum over the last seventeen years, and only 2% in the last ten. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to
cater to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has
been necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up
growth both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity
of existing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first
are the sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the FiEth Plan Period along
with a renewed determination to complete projects expelitiously; the indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slow-
down in the early 1970's; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With
regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased aware-
ness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much
increased not only through command area development but also through more
efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productLvity on both irrigated
and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research
system, which has been recently introduced in several States in northern and
eastern India.



-4-
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for rapid growth, as the most serious
constraints on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation
with respect to power, coal and imported raw materials and components. There
has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77 Central
Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In many
cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected in their
markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the medium
term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine industrial
growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong pull on
production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain chemicals,
some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and vehicles.
But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand will grow
only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If the higher
growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to materialize,
it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is difficult to
specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share that agri-
culture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for agricul-
tural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially produced
inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand signi-
ficantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. The interim
budget of the new Government moves strongly in this direction with a 240%
increase in the planned budget deficit over 1976/77.
13.       Improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for India's
ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organization-
al and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been over-
come, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable, and
the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export demand.
Supply of electricity continues to be a concern, because of the vulnerability
of hydro power to variations in the monsoon and the continued existence of
local shortages, even when the overall power situation is satisfactory. But
the severe power supply constraints of the past have been relaxed for the
moment at least, and several institutional improvements promise to reduce
the future incidence of shortages: underutilization of capacity has been
virtually eliminated in well-established power stations; progress has been
made in the organized exchange of power between states thus relieving local-
ized power shortages; and the problems of slow implementation of power invest-
ment due to delayed delivery of materials and equipment have virtually dis-
appeared. In addition, the delays caused by the inability of State Electricity



-5-
Boards to finance projects expeditiously have been eased by their improved
financial position following tariff increases, and by increased Plan outlays
by the Central Government. The medium term prospects for the oil and gas
sector have been further improved by major new finds of oil and gas near the
large offshore Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High was brought to
shore for the first time in May 1976; production reachaed an annual rate of 2
million tons by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13 million tons by
1984/85. Although India will continue to import crude at or somewhat above
the current level, much of the foreign exchange burden of rapidly rising
imports will be avoided by the development of these resources. Prospects are
also bright for further discoveries offshore, given the current high level of
exploration activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.     Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline ind because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. With a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1% per
annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's
population by 2000 is 880 million. Many of the benef:its of family planning
policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in
fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure of the popu-
lation. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981
thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system.
The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased
exports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt ser-
vice from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to
rise above this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable
policies, the volume of exports'should continue to grow by 7% to 10% annually
in the near future; and import needs for fertilizer, l'OL and foodgrains will
continue to require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange.
The large inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining
and should continue to bolster the foreign exchange pcosition in the medium
term. Imports, including a variety of capital goods, have already been
liberalized significantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the
domestic economy is likely to generate substantial additional import demand.
However, this should be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable
foreign exchange position, bright export prospects, and continuation of the
current real level of net aid. The present situation presents an opportunity
to raise the level of investment and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory
level of long term growth.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 49 loans and 84 development
credits to India totalling US$1,762 million and US$4,340 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$812 million has been
repaid, and US$1,472 million was still undisbursed as of April 30, 1977.
Annex II contains a sunmary statement of disbursements as of April 30,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$12.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$31.5 million, US$25.0 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of April 30, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted



-7-
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and accel-
erate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agricul-
ture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make
an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors,
it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
March 31, 1977, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$968 mil-
lion, of which US$512 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount
outstanding of US$456 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN INDIA AND ASSAM
23.       Agriculture is India's most important sector.    It employs approxi-
mately 70% of the population, contributes about 45% to GNP, and provides a
major share of exports. GOI's emphasis in the agricultural sector has been on
increasing foodgrain output through improved yields resulting from more inten-
sive use of seed of high yielding varieties (HYV), fertilizer, pesticides and
irrigation. With self-sufficiency in food as a national objective, investments
in foodgrain production have been given top priority by Government and will
continue to be the focus of national attention for the foreseeable future.



-8-
24.       Since independence, the overall growth of agricultural production
has averaged 3% per annum. This low overall rate, which has been very much
affected by serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1973,
obscures considerable variations over shorter periods, between crops and
between regions. The success of high yielding varieties produced increases
in wheat production of about 20% per annum between 1967 and 1971.      The
effects of this "green revolution", which primarily affected wheat, have been
concentrated in north western India, very largely on account of the advanced
state of agriculture in that area and the availability of irrigation. The
strategy of the Government is to spread this technology to other regions,
especially to the Eastern States which have a large untapped agricultural
potential and harbor a large proportion of India's poorest farmers and agri-
cultural laborers.
Agriculture in the Eastern Region
25.       In support of the Government's strategy, since September 1975,
Bank staff have been engaged in state-by-state reviews of a number of Eastern
States to analyze the problems and assist in devising short-term action pro-
grams to develop the potential within these States. These reviews have re-
confirmed in some detail much that was already known about the Region. There
is a vast groundwater resource yet to be developed; and the farm service and
supply institutions are in very poor condition and operate at low levels of
effectiveness. But the under-utilization of modern inputs is first a demand
problem rather than one of sheer availability. Farmers in the Eastern Region
are caught in a cycle of low productivity, low income and low investment.
Their holdings are small and the fragments they cultivate even smaller. They
are poorly placed to take on the risks associated with the new but more costly
technology. There are some adopters of the modern technical package of tube-
wells, HYV seeds and fertilizer, but the package is mainly applied on irrigated
wheat and rice in the dry season. Up to three-quarters of the region's food-
grain, however, is produced during the monsoon period from traditional varie-
ties and using traditional cultural practices that minimize the risk of crop
failure but result in low productivity.
26.       These State reviews have also succeeded in identifying short-term
action programs which typically concentrate on strengthening extension ser-
vices, improving adaptive research, accelerating the development of low-cost
shallow tubewells and simple dugwells, and improving the efficiency of exist-
ing public irrigation schemes. With some exceptions, it has not proven
possible to identify parallel measures to strengthen short-term credit and
input supply services in the same time frame because of weaknesses of avail-
able institutions. However, in the Eastern Region, where few farmers have
experience of modern input, credit or irrigation, a rapid shift to high-input
technology is at best difficult. Rather, as an immediate first phase, the
State reviews have stressed the potential for achieving a significant and
broadly distributed increase in production by improving basic cultural prac-
tices using the resources already available to small farmers, in particular
Eastern India's high rainfall and abundant labor.



-9-
27.       The key to this approach is a strengthening of research and its
reorientation towards the needs of the small farmer and a reorganization of
extension services along the lines first tried on a limited area in three
Bank Group assisted irrigation projects in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh
(Ln. 1011-IN, Cr. 502-IN and Cr. 562-IN). These projects showed dramatic
production increases are possible by widespread improvement in such basic
cultural practices as seedbed preparation, control of plant population and
weeding. This advice is carried by a reorganized extension service which
puts great emphasis on concentration of efforts, systematic and regular
training, close supervision of staff at all levels, and a fixed schedule
of visits to farmers' groups. Coupled with an expanded program of adaptive
research, the system has the capacity to transmit appropriate recommendations
from the researcher to the farmer quickly and effectively at little extra
cost to Government. Once farmers increase their production and their con-
fidence in the extension service grows, they can be expected to adopt the
higher and more costly technology based on purchased inputs and on-farm
investments.
28.       This approach of improving research and extension services is
being introduced over a wide area of India in Bank Group assisted projects.
The proposed project is the fourth of a series; the previous ones being
the Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN), West Bengal
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN), and Madhya Pradesh
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 712-IN). All these projects
have as their centerpiece a research and extension component. In addition,
depending on the readiness of State level institutions, provisions are made
for other components essential for boosting agricultural production in the
short term and laying the groundwork for longer term advances.
Assam
29.       Assam, has a total area of 78,000 sq. km and a population of 17
million. Assam can most easily be identified as that portion of Brahmaputra
Valley which is in India. Each year, with the melting of snows from the
Himalayas and the torrential monsoon rains the Brahmaputra River swells
to ten times its normal winter flow. Through the centuries, this process
has built up the valley floor with layers of sand, silt and gravel, and there
are now rich alluvial deposits covering 50,000 sq. km. Separated from the
Brahmaputra Valley by Mikir and North Cachar hills is the smaller Southern
Barak Valley with an area of about 5,000 sq. km. The proposed project is
confined mainly to these two valleys, which contain 97% of Assam's population
and grow 95% of its annual crops.
30.       Agriculture is the dominant economic activity of Assam, employing
over three-fourths of the population and contributing over 57% of total State
income. Rice is the most important crop and accounts for about 80% of the
cropped area (2.7 million ha) and over 90% of the area under foodgrains. The
most important commercial crops are tea, oilseeds, jute and sugarcane. Assam
produces a little over half of India's total production of tea mainly from



- 10 -
hill districts outside the project area. Production of foodgrains in the
decade ending 1974/75 increased at about 1.7% per annum, mainly due to
increases in cropped area, and failed to keep pace with the increase in
population. Agricultural yields have remained stagnant. Farms are small
and fragmented; average farm size is 1.5 ha. Over 90% of holdings are less
than 3 ha and nearly 60% less than 1 ha. Cultural practices are still largely
traditional and few farmers have any experience in using modern inputs.
Average fertilizer use (excluding that for tea) is less than 3 kg of nutrient
per ha well below the all-India average of 16 kg/ha. Only about 10% of the
area planted to rice is under high yielding varieties or improved local vari-
eties and most farmers still rely on traditional farm implements. The credit
structure is weak (see para 53).
31.       In contrast to past performance, the potential for improving agri-
cultural production, particularly of foodgrains, is considerable. Soils are
alluvial and fertile; the high rainfall is generally well distributed over
a 7-month monsoon season. For the dry months there is practically limitless
availability of groundwater which could be exploited at fairly low cost. To
begin to redress this imbalance between performance and potential and to raise
foodgrain production in the short run, emphasis needs to be placed initially
on raising yields under rainfed conditions, largely through better cultural
practices by transferring to farmers the knowhow of already proven, simple
improvements. This can be achieved by improvements in agricultural extension
methods backed by an effective and responsive adaptive research program.
Existing technology will suffice for the next two or three years but addi-
tional research is needed to bring new techniques forward after that time.
The proposed project is designed to do this. In the longer run, there is a
need to expand the area under irrigation. Consequently, the proposed project
would also provide for strengthening the institutions involved in groundwater
development in the State.
Other Bank Group Activities in Assam
32.       The Bank Group has been involved in an education project in Assam.
The project (Credit 342-IN) involves the development of the agricultural
universities in Assam and Bihar. The Assam component concentrates largely
on institution strengthening and on building up the Assam Agricultural
University's teaching capability and physical facilities at its two main
campuses (Jorhat and Khanapara). There were initial delays in implementa-
tion and disbursement because of difficulties in staff appointments and
finalization of building designs. These problems have been overcome and
project execution is now satisfactory.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The project was prepared by the Government of Assam (GOA) assisted
by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, Bank Group staff and consultants. It was
appraised in November 1976. A report entitled "Appraisal of the Assam Agri-
culture Development Project", Report No. 1535a-IN, dated June 14, 1977, is



- 11 -
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations took
place in May 1977 in Washington. The Borrower's delegation was headed by
Mr. V. Nayyar, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India.
Project Description
34.       The project is a package of complementary components aimed at
achieving early and sustained improvement in agricultural production, par-
ticularly foodgrains. The core of the project would involve strengthening
the agricultural extension services to bring proven agricultural practices
to farmers throughout the plains districts of Assam, and developing and up-
grading adaptive research. At the same time, the project would lay the base
for longer term improvements in groundwater development and would include a
component for developing low-cost technology for groundwater development
suitable for small farmers. The five-year project would comprise:
-    completion of the reorganization of the agricultural
extension service by June 30, 1980, and strengthening
of such services through provision of additional staff,
training, housing, offices, equipment and transport;
-    development and strengthening of adaptive research by:
establishing nine field trial stations under the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and upgrading two commodity-oriented
research stations and one sub-station of the Assam Agricul-
tural University, through provision of staff and staff
training, laboratory facilities, housing, hostel accom-
modation, equipment and vehicles;
-    strengthening of the Irrigation Department through the
provision of staff and staff training, vehicles and equip-
ment to enable the Department to supervise Assam's shallow
tubewell installation program and undertake groundwater
surveys and monitoring, research, design, installation
and field testing of alternative types of shallow tube-
wells and pumping techniques;
-    establishment of project monitoring and evaluation facilities
by providing staff and equipment.
Project Implementation
35.       Overall responsibility for implementation of the strengthened exten-
sion program, the program of adaptive trials at the field trial stations and
the groundwater programs would be with the Agricultural Production Commissioner
of Assam. A full time Project Manager has been appointed to assist the Com-
missioner and would be responsible for the day to day administration of the
project. The Project Manager would be assisted by the Director of Agriculture
who would be responsible for the implementation of the agricultural extension



- 12 -
program and adaptive trials. The Director would, in turn, be assisted by an
Additional Director of Agriculture to implement the extension program, and by
a Joint Director of Agriculture to implement the adaptive trials at field
trial stations. The Additional Director has already been appointed; and the
Government of Assam has agreed to appoint the Joint Director by December 31,
1977 (see Section 2.15 of the Project Agreement). The Irrigation Department
would be responsible for planning, administration and supervision of the
shallow tubewell program and for ensuring implementation of the groundwater
monitoring and technology development programs (see para 51).
36.       Responsibility for agricultural research would be divided between
the Department of Agriculture and the Assam Agricultural University. As
stated above, the responsibility for adaptive trials at the field trial sta-
tions would be with the Department of Agriculture, but the responsibility for
research at the commodity oriented research stations lies with the University.
A special cell consisting of four technical professionals from the University
would be set up under the Joint Director of Agriculture, to oversee the adap-
tive trial work on nine field trial stations. The Director of Research of
the Agricultural University, would be responsible for the research at the
University's commodity-oriented research stations. The Director would be
assisted by a senior scientist to be appointed by December 31, 1977 (see
Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement).
Project Coordination
37.       Coordination between the complementary activities in the project
would be ensured through regular meetings of various committees to be set up
under the project. A Project Coordination Committee, in which all the various
institutions concerned with the execution of the project would be represented
at the senior level and which would be chaired by the Chief Secretary or the
Agricultural Production Commissioner, would be set up. It would meet at
least twice a year to ensure cooperation among various government organiza-
tions, the University, and the credit institutions. It would also ensure that
the problems of credit, marketing and input supplies were given due attention.
The Committee would be set up by November 30, 1977 (see Section 2.11(a) of the
Project Agreement).
38.       To ensure close coordination between extension and research a State
Level Technical Committee, chaired by the Director of Agriculture, would meet
at least twice a year. This Committee would include Director of Research and
other senior staff of the University and the head of the adaptive trials cell.
It would review seasonal extension and adaptive trials results, assess input
and credit supply requirements, and approve programs submitted by District
Level Technical Committees, which would formulate extension recommendations
and work programs of the field trial stations. The State Level Technical
Committee would be established by November 30, 1977. Three District Level
Committees have already been established and others would be established in
accordance with the phased introduction of the extension system. To formulate
overall policies, set annual targets and ensure coordination of groundwater
development program, a Groundwater Coordinating Committee by November 30,
1977 (see Section 2.11(c) the Project Agreement).



- 13 -
Agricultural Extension
39.       Under the project, a well-trained, highly motivated, and technically
competent extension organization would be created and given the means to pro-
vide farmers with relevant and practical technical guidance aimed at increas-
ing production and incomes. The new system, already started in one district
of Assam in 1976, would be phased over three years to replace the existing
system which has proven ineffective. Under the previous system, the village
level worker (VLW) was responsible for extension at the farm level. However,
most VLW were employed as multi-purpose workers, responsible for many duties
unrelated to agriculture. They worked under the Department of Community
Development and Panchayats, were administratively responsible to the Depart-
ment's representative at the block level and supervised by him, while tech-
nically backed by the Department of Agriculture. Furthermore, each VLW was
unrealistically expected to cover about 1,700 farm families. Hence, while VLW
were locally responsible for agricultural extension, their effectiveness was
dissipated by the many functions expected of them, the complex lines of
technical control and supervision, and the large number of farmers each VLW
was expected to reach. This resulted in little time being devoted to agri-
cultural production, few and sporadic farm level contacts, and low impact on
yields, particularly of small farmers.
40.       Under the project, the entire extension staff in the project area
is being reorganized into a single line of command under the Department of
Agriculture. The Government of Assam has issued an order to transfer to the
Department of Agriculture 80% of the VLW previously working under Department
of Community Development and Panchayats, and to redeploy most of the other
agricultural workers under the Department of Agriculture for agricultural
extension work. This would provide about 1,660 agricultural extension workers,
who would be redesignated as Village Level Extension Workers (VLEW) to reflect
their exclusive extension role. About 780 new VLEW posts would be established
and filled over a three year period after receiving intensive training at an
existing Training Center. When the staffing is completed, there would be
2,440 VLEW for Assam's nearly 2 million farm families, a ratio of one VLEW
for about 800 farm families.
41.       To ensure satisfactory supervision, training and control of field
staff, Assam's nine agricultural districts in the project area would be
divided into 27 subdivisions (instead of the present 21 subdivisions), each
headed by a Subdivisional Agricultural Officer. Each of these Officers would
supervise eight Agricultural Extension Officers who, in turn, would supervise
eight VLEW. To strengthen technical support, the project provides for two
subject matter specialists at each subdivision, one each in agronomy and plant
protection. In areas where the groundwater program would be implemented, a
water management specialist would be provided in addition. At district level,
the project provides for three senior subject matter specialists, one in
information and training and two to give technical support in such matters as
agronomy, water management, entomology and pathology. Specialists would spend
their time about equally between field visits including checks on lower level
staff, visiting nearby adaptive trial stations, and training. Total



- 14 -
professional staff requirements under the new extension system would be
305 Agricultural Extension Officers, 82 subject matter specialists and 71
supervisory and other staff. Most of these are presently available in the
existing setup, and only 34 subject matter specialists and 30 supervisory and
other staff would be new recruits and would receive special induction training.
GOA has agreed to appoint staff in accordance with a schedule to be agreed
with the Association (see Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).
42.       Under the new agricultural extension system, an intensive farm
visit program would be introduced. The estimated 1.9 million farm families
of the project area would be divided into 2,400 groups of about 800 families
each, and one VLEW would be allocated to each unit. Each unit would be
further divided into 8 sub-units of about 100 families. From each sub-unit
VLEW would select about 10 contact farmers in consultation with farmers
themselves. Selection would be from among farmers of all categories who
are known to be of potential influence and willing to adopt the new extension
methodology. The VLEW would visit each sub-unit once every two-weeks on a
fixed day of the week and would spend the full day with the scheduled farmers'
group. In the morning he would tour their fields and in the afternoon he
would hold an open meeting in the village at a predetermined hour. At each
location, he would convey extension messages primarily through the contact
farmers, concentrating on the most important crops of their locality and
initially on a few improved cultural practices of immediate relevance. VLEW
would in turn, receive their messages from Agricultural Extension Officers and
the subject matter specialists at the regular training sessions (see para 44).
43.       Each Agricultural Extension Officer would supervise eight VLEW and
would join each one at least once every two weeks during his visits to farmers.
This would enable him to visit every farmers' group at least twice each
season. He would check that VLEW visits and meetings were carried out on
schedule and would assist both VLEW and farmers in technical matters. He
would also assist VLEW in carrying out demonstrations and simple trials.
Training
44.       Regular one-day training sessions for VLEW would be held on a fixed
day once every two weeks and would be an integral part of the system. In
these sessions, he would be instructed on the few specific recommendations
relevant to farming operations in the next two weeks. The messages to be
taught would be consistent with recommendations of the Technical Committees
(see para 38 above) and would be taught by subject matter specialists, Agri-
cultural Extension Officers and staff from the field trial stations. These
specialists would maintain close contacts with the field trial stations
where they would also participate actively in conducting field trials.
45.       Once a month, on a fixed day, Agricultural Extension Officers would
attend a one-day training and planning session, at subdivisional headquarters,
conducted by senior staff and district level specialists. The subject matter
specialists would also receive one or two weeks' training each year in sub-
jects related to their speciality. They would keep themselves up-to-date



- 15 -
working with researchers at the research stations. In addition, the project
would provide pre-service induction training and refresher training at all
levels. A small number of scholarships would be provided each year for exten-
sion staff, who show exceptional talent, to go to Assam Agricultural University
for higher training.
Housing and Transportation
46.       The proposed extension methodology would require the field staff to
live near their place of work and to be sufficiently mobile to function effec-
tively. At present, housing in rural areas is-limited and public transporta-
tion is inadequate, thus extension workers spend much of their time travel-
ling. The project would provide for renovation of suitably located existing
staff housing and construction of low cost housing so that, at full develop-
ment, housing would be provided for about 60% of VLEW and 50% of Agricultural
Extension Officers and subdivisional staff. Satisfactory housing is available
for the remainder of staff. The project would finance office construction in
six new sub-divisions created under the project. Assurances were obtained
from GOA that: (i) it would provide such low cost housing and other building
as may be necessary to ensure that the VLEW's and subdivisional staff engaged
in extension service will live in the area assigned for their operations; and
(ii) it would complete, by March 31, 1978, a survey to determine the location
of the housing and buildings to be financed under the proposed Credit (see
Sections 2.07(a) and (b) of the Project Agreement). The project would also
provide additional equipment and vehicles at headquarters, subdivisional and
district levels, including motorcycles for agricultural Extension Officers and
bicycles for VLEW. GOA has undertaken to provide credit to staff to purchase
motorcycles and bicycles and necessary financial incentives to ensure purchase
and optimum utilization of such transport (see Section 2.08(a) and (b) of the
Project Agreement).
Agricultural Research-
47.       Until 1973, the main responsibility for agricultural research rested
with the Department of Agriculture. Responsiblity for both basic and applied
research has since been transferred to Assam Agricultural University, a young
institution with a weak but developing research program. The University is
also responsible for local implementation of-centrally sponsored schemes of
the Indian Council for Agricultural Research. Research has largely concen-
trated on producing recommendations for irrigated crops, using high yielding
varieties and high level of fertilizer application. Insufficient attention
has been paid to rainfed crops and to providing small farmers with recommen-
dations as to how they might significantly increase yields, given little or
no access to costly inputs.
48.       Under the project, adaptive research facilities would be strengthened
by establishing a network of nine field trial (and training) stations and by
strengthening research at two of the University's commodity-oriented research
stations and one sub-station. The field trial stations would provide the
extension service with simple and relevant technological messages suitably
adapted to locality, size of farm, and ability of the farmer to invest



- 16 -
and take risks. The extension advice would be based initially on low-cost
methods of yield improvements using better cultural practices and later, as
farmers' income and skill develop, on more costly techniques. These stations
would also be used for training extension staff. The commodity-oriented
research program of the University would seek to identify and select improved
varieties of the most important crops obtained from national and international
research institutions, with a package of economically significant improvements
in practices directed to substantially increasing crop production and at the
same time minimize farmers' risk. Selected varieties and production packages
would be forwarded to the field trial stations for further testing in each of
the different agroecological zones, concentrating initially on rice, jute
and wheat. At the field trial stations, the most promising practices and
varieties would be identified and recommendations prepared for the extension
service.
49.       The project would provide for civil works, including the construc-
tion of laboratories, farm and office buildings, staff housing and station
development as required. Four sites chosen for establishment of field trial
stations have modest training facilities and dormitories; these would be
improved and new facilities created at five others. The project would also
provide laboratory, farm and office equipment and vehicles. Incremental
salaries, allowances, and other operating costs are also included in the
project costs.
50.       At full development, professional staff at the commodity research
stations would be increased from 58 to 73. Each field trial station would
be staffed with an agronomist and three research officers - an entomologist,
a soil scientist and a plant pathologist. The project would, therefore, pro-
vide 40 new professional staff for the nine field trial stations including
the four person cell (para 36). In addition, fellowships for advanced train-
ing of various research staff would be provided. Local consultancy services,
for about 12 man-months, would also be provided to give guidance in organiza-
tion and management of the research program.
Groundwater Development
51.       The project would lay the base for longer term improvements in
groundwater development by strengthening the Irrigation Department's capacity
to plan, administer and supervise programs for exploitation of Assam's vast
groundwater resources. The project would provide equipment, vehicles, staff
and staff training to strengthen the Irrigation Department to enable it:
(i) to supervise Assam's shallow tubewell installation program, which is
complementary to the project but not a part of it (see para 52); (ii) to
undertake a three year program of groundwater surveys and monitoring to
strengthen GOA's information base for planning future projects and its
capacity to monitor hydrological effects of groundwater development; and
(iii) to develop appropriate technology to suit the requirements of Assam's
small farmers.



- 17 -
52.       Complementary to the strengthening of the Irrigation Department
would be a program of shallow tubewell installation. This would not be part
of the project. It would be implemented and financed under a general IDA line
credit to the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (Credit
715-IN). This program, which has already started, would be concentrated in
three districts. The pumpsets to be installed are the smallest possible with
existing equipment but are still too large and too costly for the smallest
farms without water sharlng. The project would, therefore, include a program
of research, design, installation and field testing to provide alternative
technologies suitable for small farmers.
Credit
53.       The credit structure, for both short and long term credit, is weak.
This has largely been caused by lack of demand and a reluctance on the part
of cooperative credit institutions to collect outstanding payments. There
have been several suggestions for the reorganization of the credit structure
over the past few years, based largely on studies carried out by the Reserve
Bank of India. Most of the recommendations contained in those studies have
yet to be put into effect. Although short term credit is unlikely to be a
constraint in the early years, rehabilitation of the cooperative credit sys-
tem will be a lengthy process. GOA has, therefore, agreed to review, in
consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, past studies for strengthening
the cooperative credit structure in Assam; draw up, by March 31, 1978, a time
schedule for the implementation of the recommendations arising from such
review; and implement such recommendations accordingly (see Section 2.14 of
the Project Agreement). In the case of long term credit, required particu-
larly for implementation of groundwater development, Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation's (ARDC) refinancing of lending by commercial
banks to the farmers has proved satisfactory. The present arrangements for
long term credit would, therefore, be continued.
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.       An essential feature of the project would be monitoring and evalua-
tion of project progress and impact. This would provide guidance to those
responsible for project implementation and permit in-depth evaluation of
longer term effects brought about by the project. Project monitoring, in-
cluding reporting on physical and financial inputs, would be carried out by
the concerned Departments. This information would be supplemented by an
independent assessment of the performance of project organizations. For this
purpose, and to provide continuous evaluation covering the economic, institu-
tional and technical impact of the project, a separate evaluation unit would
be set up at the headquarters supported by small units at district level.
Assurances were obtained that GOA would carry out continuous monitoring and
evaluation of the Project in a manner that would be acceptable to the Associ-
ation, and the results of such monitoring and evaluation would be sent to the
Association at least once a year (see Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement).



- 18 -
Prolect Cost and Financing
55.       The total project cost is estimated at US$16.4 million (including
duties and taxes estimated at about US$ 0.5 million) of which the estimated
foreign exchange component is about US$1.4 million. The proposed credit of
US$8 million would finance about 50% of project costs net of duties and
taxes, and cover the whole of foreign exchange costs plus about US$6.6
million of local costs. The remaining local costs of US$8.4 million would
be financed by GOI and GOA. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be channeled
through GOI to GOA on GOI's standard terms as part of Central assistance
provided to the State Government for development purposes.
56.       The principal project components are:   strengthening of extension
services (US$8.4 million), agricultural research (US$3.1 million), strength-
ening of Irrigation Department (US$0.7 million), project monitoring and
evaluation (US$0.4 million), and contingencies (US$3.8 million). Physical
contingencies average about 7%, and price contingencies range between 6
and 8% per annum over the project period.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Contracts for civil works (US$5.1 million) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding under procedures which are satisfactory
to the Association. Civil works contracts would be small and dispersed, both
geographically and over time, and would not be suitable for international com-
petitive bidding. There are numerous qualified local contractors to ensure
competition and satisfactory execution of project civil works. About 135
motor vehicles of various types (US$1.0 million) would be required under the
project. They would be purchased in small quantities over four years. In
the interest of ensuring adequate maintenance and spares, they would be pro-
cured by local competitive bidding under procedures which are satisfactory
to the Association. Scientific equipment (US$0.2 million) for research sta-
tions would involve many small contracts from various suppliers of specialized
items. It would not, therefore, be practical to procure these items under
international competitive bidding procedures. As most of the world's leading
manufacturers of scientific equipment are represented in India and can offer
local maintenance service, GOA's established local procurement procedures
would be employed. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and furniture
(US$0.6 million) would be bulked wherever possible and would be purchased
following satisfactory local competitive procedures, except where valued
at US$50,000 less, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping. Con-
sultants employed (US$0.1 million) would have qualifications, experience,
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Motorcycles and
bicycles (US$0.3 million) would be purchased by individual staff, according
to their preference. The balance of the project costs (US$9.1 million)
would consist of staff training costs (US$1.3 million), incremental salaries
and travelling allowances (US$3.5 million) and incremental operating costs
(US$4.3 million).



- 19 -
58.       Disbursement of IDA funds would be as follows:    (a) 80% of civil
works costs; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for overseas training; (c) 80%
of expenditures for local training and consultants' services; (d) 80% of
equipment and vehicles; and (e) 45% of salaries of incremental staff. To help
expedite disbursements, disbursements against expenditures for locally procured
equipment costing Rs 20,000 (about US$2,200) or less, and against civil works
contracts for one or more progress payments not exceeding Rs 50,000 (about
US$5,500) would be on the basis of certificates of expenditure. The support-
ing documentation would not be submitted for review but would be retained by
the project authorities for inspection by IDA during project review missions.
Periodic local auditing of these certificates of expenditure has been pro-
vided for. Disbursements against all other items would be fully documented.
Project Benefits and Risks
59.       The main project benefit would be an increase in yields as a con-
sequence of the impact of the new extension and research system. Experience
in the IDA-financed Chambal and Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development
Projects indicates that, within two years of the introduction of new method-
ology, more than 50% of farm families followed some or most of the extension
recommendations. It is estimated that within the project period, the project
would directly benefit about 200,000 contact farmers and through them at least
one million of Assam's 1.9 farm families in the project areas. Small farmers
with limited financial resources but excess labor would be the primary bene-
ficiaries of the project's emphasis on efficient use of existing resources
rather than the use of purchased inputs often too expensive for small and
marginal farmers.
60.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require some additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to
extension and research. However, there is no doubt that the substantial
improvement in the efficiency of utilization of resources, which would be
brought about by the project, would generate a high rate of return. It would
be reasonable to expect that by Year 7 production of rice would increase
by about 43,000 tons statewide, equivalent to an average yield increase of
20 kg/ha, or less than 2% over the "without project" situation. Given such
increases, the economic rate of return would be 50%. Experience with reor-
ganized extension services in other States of India suggests that there would
be little risk that yields would not increase by an average of at least 20
kg/ha as a result of the project, since this is well below the gains recorded
in farmer trials in Assam and is less than the gains reported by responding
farmers in Nowgong District, where the reorganized extension service has been
in operation for two crop seasons. The high rate of return should, however,
be treated with caution since, as improved agricultural practices spread,
further investments in infrastructure and services would become necessary.
61.       The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient organi-
zation and management of extension and research services as well as on farmers'
response. Experience with ongoing projects (see para 27) has already demon-
strated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formulation and



- 20 -
delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project is
different from the ongoing activities under Command Area Development
Projects in that it mainly concentrates on rainfed, rather than irrigated,
areas. For this reason there is a somewhat higher degree of risk of yield
increases falling short of expectations. However, in contrast to most other
parts of India, Assam enjoys a 7-month long monsoon season with high and
generally well distributed rainfall. Also, there are a significant number
of improved practices and research findings suitable for dissemination which
can substantially improve yields, even under rainfed conditions. Furthermore,
farmers in rainfed areas tend to be less affluent and in greater need of tech-
nical advice. Thus, even though benefits may be lower in rainfed than in
irrigated areas, they would still be considerable, both in economic and social
terms. A second generation risk would be faced when the success of the new
methodology generates demand for additional inputs. If this were not met,
the resultant farmer frustration could adversely affect the success of the
extension effort. However, at this juncture and for some time to come, the
deficiencies in the existing network for supplying farmers' inputs are related
to the lack of demand and there is slack in the network which can be taken up
to meet additional demand. The State Level Technical Committee, which is
charged with overseeing the planning and execution and extension effort, is
also responsible for assessing seasonal input requirements and should be able
to ensure the development of arrangements capable of coping with increased
demand. Finally, the steps that would be taken in connection with this proj-
ect for strengthening the cooperative credit structure would also make an
important contribution to improving the situation in the longer term.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
Assam, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
1(d) of the Articles of Association and the text of a draft Resolution approv-
ing the proposed Development Credit are being distributed to Executive
Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Date: June 16, 1977



zi
*s  Z  .0     Mt-T--4- 
-   I.;        m-m    a  04 Z *W%  0    0.0    4      .0NO      09-           -     COC
a 25~~~
0  ftC                           -4                                   -4           5~~~~~~~~~~~0 V~.  t  n1,  C
9.0  *                              .. .   ..co   t~  .o .  9*o  4  0WC n                  I 
hi  ft SpO  0  gO~  -Z-  s tOa        09                   0  0 00 Za             C- 0I   W  09
2  OiS                      99                        C  -                             a~~~~~~~~~~~Z  ~c_* .-  .
hi                        95                                                    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l ~   J~aZ9 -~
if                                                                                  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.W 
*  *56*        *~~~~~= xt  Z          ..      .*                       . Z :w.  .9s_Jd  .  .  . 
200  .0  .~~~-  550  0.4  .C  0-f  -.W0  0  0       COO   9       if.        la if.0'00 
as-  -  CO  0    -  *94     a                       -990  00- n  .  C I-a-             95
at  0                                                                           9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  f
"I     I
r  n  V  Ur"    v   Z  wo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0..0                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
olesa otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to soy year betwee           l959 and 1961, for 1970 betwee      1968 and 1970 end for MostRost         stmtbeen
1973 ead 1975.
-   Brasiih.ba  been  selected se a.s ebjeati-e country beossee Of its site end cnpecebla 0robleo           of regiosSl ieequelity.
_NDIA           1960    LA   1951-61 average;       /b  1951-60;     Ic   gatio of popuelatiosn ,ndr 15 and 65 end over to lobor force ego 15 ond ovr;
Id  Registered epplteannti fo    work;      I.  196 2;    Lf   gegietered, noct .11 prciigis the coutry;               /R   Includiog
miwve; l    1958;     /t   1960-62.
1970     LO  Ratio of poPoletion under 15 end 65 end over to labor force         oge 15 end over       /b   1967-68;     Ic   Including nidwiee;
/d 1967.
.MOT RECENT ISTIS4ANE:      Is   1971;     /b  Recta of Ppupletion under 15 end 65 end over to labor force age 15 end over;               /c  1976;
Id   Including mdie;          I    1969-71 everege;      If   Populetlon 10 peace end over.
nDQ IA  1970     Ist 1961-71;      lb  1971;     /n   including nidwivee;      Ld   Totel hospital beds .     mpee
ipfl  ?PIPPNES  1970     /s  As percentegs   of employment;      lb  Not including private voctinel schools
gROOTh          1970      AE.. icnoicalls' active   .popultian;     /b   Hospital pereonnel,       Ic  Inside only.
RIO, April 18, 1977
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL I9DICAlflS
Land Area (thou be 2                                                                                       Puoltu  o  ua o  as -Ppulation divided by cuobac Of procti-
To_tal - Total outface area .usprie leg lord cr00 And inland watace.                        0mg cub    and fnoa1s graducic cacao, "trained" Oc `c-tified"-
ALpcit .-Moat recoot oativ-at of agriculturl area usod teop-caily or                        brc,and ...oili-cy p-to...o waith traielg or superi.oos
per-u-tl     f- crOps, ia-toroa, rarkat P. bitohee iacde.o.         t   lie            Pouoioprhoia                c      ouaindivided lby number of hoopital
fallow,                                                                                  bode avillabls in Publi      and pri-ac~ generai And epociatiard boapital
end chobtlitationc-tore; secludes euroing hone. And votablinboents
GNP par capita (US$) - GNP Per capita astinatse at -urret sackat pni-e,                     for cuatodiol And pre-rrti-e 00cr.
caicl..atd by ame, covenveethod an World la,sO Atlas (1973-75 boete);                  Par caPita oubely of ealorira     (7. of reaairaev,oto) - C-opated fr..
1960, 1970 aed 1975 data,                                                                enrgy equivalent o~f 0t feed euppli-e available in country par capita
pac day; available supplies conprioc doeantic production, iopocte Leu6
Pecultion ad vital statintic-                                                               roperte, And obauge    in ntecb; rot ouPPlice    cocludo octeul feed, seAda,
Pa..aIaiiu(oldy.mlic.                so  July first,    ef cut avilable,                    quaotitire  ocod to feed Proc-eiog and lo-ur        to ditribution, rsqali-
-vaerage Of tee sod-pra     itlAte; 1960, 1970 a-d 1975 date.                              -sts   0cc oa.ti-oted by fAe b.and en phyniologicel needa for so-ne
ac tivity Aed boalt1 c..aidrricg envirormcetai toperatu-e, body weights,
Poplatu   deuit  -       o pe  rab  - Oid-y.ar pepulotion per   q-ar   bile-           age and ore dletributivcs ef population,      eean   lotd     107. forwet
ester(illhectree)of ttal  rea                                                    at boueshoid level.
Popelatiun de..aitv - Per ea-ora be of agric. land . Ceeputed as above fur               frcpt         upyo       rii      goecrdy              c  secscto           e
e5r;icOlture1 land enly.caiant                                                                         upyoffe         pcda;etspyat               edis     sfsd     o
oboes; rquirnorste for 011 couctrirs establiobed by U1DA iEon-ic
totl statistics                                                                             Rs...arch Servi-e   provide for a victe-vi ol.e.ance ef 60 grace Of
Grade birth rate per thoesacd,     averaes - Annua IlLivc births per tho...and              tutal Protein per dsy, And 20 grees of anirti And peiee pr-toin, of
of old-year pepolation; too-year a-ithneticfaverage        ae.dieg is 1960 end            obich .10 grams obeuld,bear-inal' pretein, these otarderde are lowe
19710, edfi e-ysar e-e-gs ordieg in 1975 fr cot          _rc       asiute.                then th.er..    75 grac   of ot     p-retin cud 23 gre's of onieal proeicl
Crude.deathrat_e per     husn,      -rae-Ae     noa I deatha per tbo..a.od Of eid-          we ao overag    for the -eld, propeaod by tAO      -c tbe Th-rd World Food
year   popultion; to-peer- -ritheotic ev--gee seding in 1960 and 1970 and                 Survesy
fi_vsyear var.rg.e nding io 1975 for nest recas t etirato.Par capita oc-toin supl                                    pc0   n.ll n         .ee  - P1retoio oupply ef food
Ifn  rtlitY rate C/thea)- Asnnal deab        ofieato      nder One year              derived treea.a.         adpleei        rbaytdy
of age per thousand live births                                                        Death rate C/thou) agre     1-4 - An-ua1 deaths pot thnosavd toaen         ro
-Life cepectancy at birth (yre) - Araeehrofyse                   flforai-1-b years, to ohildrev in tbos ape g-ce; -gcsr                                 oeoidctrc
le, at birth; usually fivc-pear     -v-ag-    ending ic 1960, 1970 a-d                   vaieotriteo
l15y fordeveloping c...sirira
Ir..s roeroductiun ra_ts-    Average coobr Of live daughters a 00cc will                 Rd-catien
bear in hr    or"    repedutive period it shy raperienove present Ago-                 Adlootad ec-ell-ot rtio -.: crjry acbuo i- E-1ieriiet Of all a1r             As
epe-ific fertility rtes; usally five-per averges coding in 1960,                          perceetaga   fprer       soIo-gooeu          nt ; inlues      hildren cord
1970 aed 1975 fec d-relope      centrir.                                                 6-11I years bet ad1eatod fr difforont iengthu of prinary edecaitlee;
Peuate   goth rai 1%- total --ep           danulgeth rates of rId-                    for ceuntrise with ueiversal educatioo,       nroleutry        _sced 1007.
,Yoar pepulatiee for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                         since sore pupils are below Or abeo thu etficiel ch.ol .ag.
opulation or-th ratc (7.) - urbun - Ceepoted like groath rote of total                  Adiutctd    nrollees   ratio -eodarY uchool - Coeputod asa           b-eo;
popula            e                                                                                                        A    .t            r tion; dif ot definitions ef urban ar-a eey efoct corpora-  soeedery aduca.tien requiresat lest uer psr  of approved primary
bili ty ofdatA A-nog ncoutrias.                                                           Iutocin       provides generu1, vocational or teacher training
Urbas  uoplatli,   (. oftotal) - Ratio of urban to totel population;                        inetructioee fur pupils Of 12 to 17 years of agc; corropoodon-e
diteet deficitine of aches areaas nap aftfsot coymperability of data. corse' are generelly ..acledcd.
Amon t   euntrislYars _of scholing provided (first and second levels) - Tot.alyea:rs nf
(,                  -lt  Children (0-lb ysaro), ourilog-age (15-64 yeacs),          scolig        t esoondar   level, vocational tentruntion ra.y be pr-
and retics4W56 years ad over) as peranetagee of mid-yea           population.             tia1lY or cospletaly escloded.
A.. d-pendeucy ratio - Rlae o.f popoiatien under 11 aed 65 and ever to                    Voo-tic..el enru11vect (7. of ...condary) - Vocetion.. I    notitutiona
ths.. ef ages 15 th-ogh 64.                                                               include- technical, industrial Or other program       which operate
cEsonmic daesdency ratio - Ratio Of PeoPlation under 10 And 65 end over                     ndopefdsntl yor asdapavteet        of secondary iseticutione.
ce thelabor  erce d   apegrop of 15-64 peace.                                    Adl     ieay      ae(.       Literate adulta Cabin to ra:d end        ia)a
family planninat - aucectof     (cumuative.   thea) - Cunolative number Of                  percentage of total adult pepalatiun age'd 15       y per 'and over.
-onptore of birth-control devices endor auspices of ctiena1 family
plen.nig program since inception.                                                      Iosn
Facily c~pisnnln-ueers (%~ of carried acorn) - Percentagas of carried                     PesnAaoc(ra)                  -Avraga nuber of persons per coon in
enen     echl    -hering ag (C15-44 Yearn) else oa    birth-coctrol devicee              occapied c..nsetiama1 dwellings In urban arcaa; derlliege ecolode
to oil morried wecen in sane Aag group.                                                   no-pereaanrt etructureeeand uneccpiod parts.
Occupied d-elllnea sitboot,Piped eater (7.       - Occupied noevetilonal
E.plemen.t                                                                                  deallingA in urhas And cral. aroaselthoot inside or outeida piped
Teta1 labor force (thousand) -      coEl. nically act!vivePerauns,  isoludiug               _etor fec-ilitisa As percentage of all occupied dosilings.
rarced forcesiand..unmploye,dt bu    .tealud ing hoeio        tudeots, arc.,           Acore In electricitY (7. of all deellinas) - Conventional dwellings
definiti ns.i.vaiou        contrie     se et ceepa..ehbe.                                 ,ih els-tricity in living quarters ae peroact of total d-Illisga in
.Labor farce in agricelttore (7.) - Agric-lt-a1 lahbr force (in far,nin,                    urban and cral1 Areas.
fereoty, h-sting and fishing) As porcentgag       of total labor force                 Rural d-ellinag   oeneected to ol1-tricity (7.     - Cooputod es above for
Lsmln ev,ed, (7. of laher ferca) -   nUm-pleped are usuallY defined as                      rural dwallin8ge only.
perees- wis are Able And willing to taka a Job, out Of a Jeb 01.
given day, remained out Of a Job, and cooking wok ferc         Paspcified              Consocption
cini-u   period net   xaecedleg one week; nay not he cumparable between                 Radia raei-ers (per thee coo) - All types of r-eivsre for radie breed-
ceotries doe to different definitiene ef oum-ployad and aourcr uP                         c..astst  geenraj p.blic pee thou....d of pupelation; ...clodce
data,.e.g., sipleyce-t offtia otatistics, eauple sorve--py, corpulsery                    unlicen...d receiver      a in.coutries and in years when registraties of
enoP 1e Ynmet insurance.                                                                  radio sets wa5 in effect; data fec recent paces cay not be cumparable
stor  ems tc   tris    aboliabed licanniegn.
In,   o li,t:b.t.n-iPercent.ag  of private incone (both in cas h and                Iaaaar      ar    ee   te      en).- Passenger cafe conprie motor care
kind) recived by richest 57., richest 2007, poorset 207., and poorest                     .ea..    leesI..  thee eight peceene; eccudes ambulance, herseAnd
407. of hausshelds.                                                                       nilitaryvhli.
E.trctniatvc (kwh/yr par cad. - Annual cansumptios of industrial, co
Dlitributius of1la4 sw.Eerhbt      - Percentagee of lacd owned by wealthiest                eartiia ~  olcAnd private electricIty in kilew..tt hours per capits;
107 ..ad poorest 107. Of lad    wesreA.                                                   generally bated on preduotiue data, witbout alle-ance for lo...as in
grids hut a1lesing for ioperts and caperts of electricity.
Hisaith and Nutrition                                                                     N-evspiut (be/yr sac can) - Per capita anneal c-esaptien in kilegraes
PoPulatlen per shysic ias - Ppulatien divided by number of practicing                       estimated free docestic prodoctiem pies net imports of novepriet.
phyeicians qualified free a mdical aihoei At univorsity level.



ANNEX I
Pag9 3 of 4
R00IC DMVgLPMT DATA
anp PBR CAPITA IN 1975 -  US$ 150
GROSS RATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1915/76 /AWFUL RATE OF CRO (C%. oonstant Pric.)
IISI Bln.       ;                                      1960/61-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70     1970/71-1974/79
GCP at NiLrket Prices            82.8       100.0                                           3.8                 3.7                 2.6
Gross Domestio Invetment        46.7         20.1
Groaa National Saving            16.o         19.3
Current Aooount Balance          .0.7        -0.8
Resouroe Gap                    -1.5         -1.8
OUPUT. LAOR FORCE AND PROWDCTITY IN 1971
alu Added(at ftsr o                    Lbor Force               VA P r Uorker
=1                                                                      of n.  _  ofD-tlonslkA  A&Q
Ariculture                       24.5            46.6                130.0    72.1            188            64
Industry                         11.8            22.3                 20.2    11.2            582           199
Servics                          l6              l-d .s                       t.                            186
Total/avera                      52.6           100.0                18.4    1oo.o            292           100
GOVERNINT FINANCE
General Government                                       Central Co   ent
(R Bln)je CP                        _(b                   1x % of  Elm)        f
1g7s/76       1975/761973/74-1975/76                  1975/76        1975/761n/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                  133.34        18.5          16.7                       79.11          11.0          9.8
Current lipnditures               118.77         1.70-0                                                  97           8.8
Current Surplum/Dsfioit           14.57          2.0           1.4                        9.06           1.3          1.0
Capital Etupnditures  O/           54.27         7.3           6.2                       40.75           5.6          4.6
External Assistanoe (not)          13.89         1.9           1.3                       13.89           1.9          1.3
NaNY. CRDIT AND PRICES                   1965/66    12L71L7   1972/75    1913174    1974/L7    1975/76     sp tember 197s    Seatember 1976
TBillioc Re outetanding at sn  of period)
Mone and Qui Money                         61.4      122.4     142.2      169.1      187.2      213.6          199.0             238.3
Bank Credit to Publio Sector              40.8       69.0       82.5       92.9      102.6      108.5          112.8             112.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector              28.1      64.4       76.0       90.1      109.5      134.2          106.0             143.8
(Peroentage or Index Numbers)                     January 1976      January 1977
Money and Qua"i Money as % of ONP          24.0      26.4       27.9       27.1       26.2       27.9
Wholesale Prioe Inde
(1961/62 - 100)                       131.6      188.4      207.1      234.2      313.0      302.8          290.0             320.5
Ann      pereentag  changes ina
Wholesale Priae Ind                         7.7       4.0        9.9       22.7       23.1                                        10 5
Bank Credit to Publio Seotor               12.9      21.3       19.6       12.6       10.4        5.7                              4 7 t
Bank Credit to Private SBeter              12.8      13.6       18.0       18.5       21.5       22.5                             24 6
/   The per capita GNP e*tiate is at market prioes, calculated by the coovereton technique used in the
World Atla. All other conversions to dollars in thie table are at tle awwrage exchanp rate prevailing
during the period covered.
qW Quick Etimates.
/ Compated from trend lie of GNP at factor cost series, includiag one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
Tranefra between Center and States have been netted out.
l/    l loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
Nl Net bank credit to Government Sector.
B/ Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
E00NG(IC DEVJLOPaIHIa DATA                                                 Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYlENTS               1973/74      InUSa      ll5fw6         1976/77 hl          XERC IEUDI  XXPOR   (AVER      1975474-97/761
Fxports of Goods                   5,239        4,174        4,555        5,400               Sugar                     542          9
I7pU    of Goods                  -5,97        -5,794       -6,085       -5,850              Jute Manufactures          517          8
Trde llals                        - 752        -1,620       -1,550         -450               TeaL                      249          6
313 (nt)   J/                       e.g.         n..          R.-.        n.a.                Cotton Textiles           413         10
Iron Ore                   206          5
R00rco GD                           n.&.-.       n.m          e..         n.a.               Enrinoering Goods          591         10
Int--Ik PV-to (Iwt)                                                 ~   ~~~       ~    ~~~~~~~other  2.071   5
Intugat PaFmant. Cn t)      /j    - 235         - 260        -3%          - 280              Total                    3,989        100
Oth.? Noter Pgyants (net)           n.m.         R.-.     n    .-.        R.&.
Not Transfers ./                    a.&.         n.-.         e.-.        n.4.
Bal noe on Current Aecoenta          na..        A.g.         n..         n.&.                ERNA     1    MARCH 31. 1976
IJS8 Pillion
Officia Aidus                                                                                                                        ii.
Disbursement                   1,249        1,766        2,526       2,050                Repayable La freige oorrenoy          12.5
Amortisztion                   - 459        - 519        - 516       - 560                RepApble trough export of good"        0.7
Transaaoiona with IF                  75          515          205       - 565                Total OuttandIng and Disbursed        13.0
All Other Item                       205           80          559       1,100                M]T 8M1C0 RATIO POR 1976/77
In"ease in    sere   C-)            -105           58        - 794      -1495
Gross Roservs (end year)            1,416       1,578        2,172       3,667                 IRD/mA    I      Deceber 31. 1976    (osS lain
Net Reo*yres (end year)            1,341          783        1,552       3,202
IBRD       IDA
Fuel and Related Materiasle
Outstead    and Disbured            452.7     3208.4
Ioports                              720        1,451        1,417       1,625               Undisbaeed                          510.3     1140.5
of whioh, Petrelm                 719        1,451        1,417       1,625                Outetandigs inclutdin
Exports                               20           26           41         n.n.               IYUnd.imev e                       963.0     4348.9
of whichs Petrolaun                 16          17           22         n.-.
RATE OP EXCHANGE   /
Prior to mid&Deoiner 1971        IS1.00  a Rs 7.5                                            After and June 1972    I   Pleating Rt.
Rs 1.00  - US40155535                                      Spot Rate March 31, 1976
lid-Doee_ber 1971 to          :  1881.00 * R    7.2792T                                                  *ppr. 0581.00 * Be      8.80475
and Juzm 1972                  Be 1.00  * US$0.1573                                                     ppro. Ba 1.0D U 00 = WS  0.113575
Estimated.
j/ Included with 'All other Items.
/V Aid   nd trade figurae  eonertd to US dollars usizg  Zhane rates a ingea        in    ide rnt
oover of this "port or notes to individual tables.
t/ Including ganta.
I/ Amortisztion and interest payenta (excluding ni trunsaction) as a persexte of mercbaAdie        rport.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1977)
Loan or                                                                        USs
Credit No.   Year   Borrower          Purpose                                  US$ Million-
Credit No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                 (Net of Cancellation)
BANK     IDA      Undisbursed
39 Loans/                                                           1,089.2
42 Credits fully disbursed                                                   2,271.9
614-IN       1969   India      Tarai Seeds                             13.0     -             3.8
203-IN       1970    India     Punjab Agricultural Credit               -       27.5          8.1
226-IN       1971    India     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr.          -       24.4          1.9
242-IN       1971   India      Power Transmission II                    -       75.0          2.7
250-IN       1971    India     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit           -       35.0          4.8
264-IN       1971   India      Cochin II Fertilizer                     -       20.0          0.9
267-IN       1971    India     Wheat Storage                            -        5.0          3.7
278-IN       1972   India      Mysore Agricultural Credit               -       40.0          1.7
294-IN       1972   India      Bihar Agricultural Markets               -       14.0         11.1
312-IN       1972   India      Population                               -       21.2          8.9
342-IN       1972    India     Education                                -       12.0         11.1
356-IN       1972   India      IDBI                                     -       25.0         13.7
377-IN       1973   India      Power Transmission III                   -       85.0         30.8
378-IN       1973   India      Mysore Agricultural Markets              -        8.0          7.3
902-IN       1973   ICICI      Industry DFC X                          70.0     -             9.3
390-IN       1973    India     Bombay Water Supply                      -       55.0         37.9
392-IN       1973   India      Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit        -       38.0          9.5
403-IN       1973    India     Telecommunications V                     -       80.0         16.4
427-IN       1973    India     Calcutta Urban Development               -       35.0         15.1
440-IN       1973    India     Bihar Agricultural Credit                -       32.0         17.9
456-IN       1974    India     HP Apple Processing & Marketing          -        13.0        11.7
481-IN       1974    India     Trombay IV                               -       50.0         20.6
1011-IN       1974    India     Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                 52.0     -            41.5
482-IN       1974    India     Karnataka Dairy                          -       30.0         29.8
502-IN       1974    India     Rajasthan Canal CAD                      -       83.0         56.9
520-IN       1974    India     Sindri Fertilizer                        -       91.0         34.9
521-IN       1974    India     Rajasthan Dairy                          -       27.7         27.4
522-IN       1974    India     Madhya Pradesh Dairy                     -        16.4        16.1
526-IN       1975    India     Drought Prone Areas                      -       35.0         29.7
1079-IN       1975    India     IFFCO Fertilizer                       109.0      -           88.2
1097-IN       1975    India     Industry DFC XI                        100.0     -            63.1
532-IN       1975    India     Godavari Barrage Irrigation              -       45.0         35.1
540-IN       1975    India     ARC Credit                               -        75.0        34.4
541-IN       1975    India     West Bengal Agrc. Dev.                   -        34.0        31.3
562-IN       1975    India     Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD             -       24.0         21.1
572-IN       1975    India     Rural Electrification                    -       57.0         54.8
582-IN       1975    India     Railways XIII                            -      110.0         47.2
585-IN       1975    India     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply               -        40.0        39.9
598-IN       1975    India     Fertilizer Industry                      -       105.0        98.0
604-IN       1975    India     Power Transmission IV                    -       150.0       150.0
609-IN       1975    India     Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.             -         4.0         4.0
610-IN       1976    India     Integrated Cotton Development            -        18.0        18.0
616-IN       1976    India     Industrial Imports XI                    -       200.0         7.0
1251-IN(TW)   1976    India     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation              145.0      -          145.0
1260-IN       1976    India     IDBI II                                 40.0      -           40.0
1273-IN       1976   India      National Seed                           25.0      -           25.0
1313-IN       1976    India     Telecommunications VI                   80.0      -           60.3
1335-IN       1976    India     Bombay Urban Transport                  25.0      -           25.0
680-IN       1977    India     Kerala Agric. Dev.                                30.0        30.0*
682-IN       1977    India     Orissa Agric. Dev.                                20.0        20.0*
685-IN       1977   India      Singrauli Thermal                                150.0       150.0*
687-IN       1977   India      Madras Urban Dev.                                 24.0        24.0*
695-IN       1977   India      Gujarat Fisheries                                  4.0         4.0*
1394-IN(TW)   1977    India     Gujarat Fisheries                       14.0                  14.0*
Total                                                             1,762.2   4,340.1
of which has been repaid                                          786.8     25.9
Total now outstanding                                               975.4  4,314.2
Amount Sold                              114.6
of which has been repaid             111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                      975.4   4,314.2
Total undisbursed                                                   501.2     971.2     1,472.4
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                              Amount (US$ million)
Year         Company                              Loan     Equity    Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5       -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9       -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4       -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2       -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7      0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8      0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8      1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0      0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.0      0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6      2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1      3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                          6.6       -         6.6
TOTAL                            49.6      8.8      58.4
Less:  Sold                              6.0      1.6        7.6
Repaid                           13.0       -       13.0
Cancelled                        6.2       0.7       6.9
Now Held                         24.4      6.5      30.9
Undisbursed                      5.6        -        5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
1/
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,524 million as of March 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to com-
mitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23.
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems, however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found a satisfactory
improvement in the prospects for successful project implementation.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973;. Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9., 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
For Power Transmission III all equipment has been ordered; there
will be a substantial cost overrun due to international price increases, part
of which is being met from Power Transmission IV. For Power Transmission IV,
bids for most of the equipment have been invited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Proiect; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2. 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Prolect; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Prolect; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
months behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project has
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment. Under
the Sindri project plant construction and erection is proceeding generally
according to schedule except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays
in receipt of some materials. Commencement of commercial production is ex-
pected by March 1978. The anticipated cost to complete the project is pre-
sently running within budget. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in
completion of engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satis-
factorily based on naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and
time-critical equipment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under
way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. The Central Govern-
ment has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are
likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be
delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31. 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10. 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Prolect; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973: Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976, and more than
10% of the loan amount had been authorized by mid-May 1977.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Prolect; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts
have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing
well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made
in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is to start soon. KDDC
decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Ralasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructures, drainage, and land shaping are



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress is satisfactory. Expenditure to date is less
than expected -- about 22% of project cost estimates -- but is reasonable
because inflation has been much less than expected. The most successful
component of this multi-componented project is dairying, which has a sig-
nificant impact on rural incomes. Other components are, in general, meeting
appraisal targets in terms of physical achievements, although with some
time lag. There are, however, several technical problems which need to be
overcome. DPAP is largely innovative program and the emergence of such
problems was expected. The identification of these problems represents a
major first step to their resolution and subsequently to establishing pro-
grams which can be replicated throughout India's 72 drought prone districts.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal]
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of September 1976,
orders had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and
tenders had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26.
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; ClosinR Date:
September 30. 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25. 1975: Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26. 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District;of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. For the feasibility study, proj-
ect authorities have prepared a short list of three foreign consulting firms,
who are now being asked to prepare detailed proposals. On the basis of these
proposals, the final selection will be made shortly.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26. 1976; Effective Date: November 30.
1976; Closing Date: December 31. 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10. 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Good progress has been made since negotiations. The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds production as planned, hav-
ing handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC). Detailed production pro-
grams, by variety and responsible institution, have been prepared for breeder,
foundation and certified generations. GOI and State Governments have made
equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financing of major project activity.
Orders will shortly be placed for processing machinery to provide bridging
capacity pending the construction of new processing plants. Tender documents
for the first purchases of farm machinery have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1313   Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Disbursements have commenced and the project is progressing satis-
factorily.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement work is well in hand. Contracts for 275 single and
175 double deck bus chassis have been awarded and bidding for corresponding
bus bodies is in progress. Civil works for bus facilities have been partly
commissioned and bidding for 18 of 31 traffic engineering schemes is in
progress. Preparations for technical assistance envisaged under the project
are under way.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: July 1. 1977
(expected) Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: July 1, 1977
(expected); Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 22, 1977 (expected); Closing Date:   June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected)
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30. 1977 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:                Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Assam (GOA) assisted by the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program, Bank staff and consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
March 1976, November 1976
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 2, 1976
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 25, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1, 1977
Section II:               Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:              Special Conditions
(a) GOA to establish Project Coordinating Committee by
November 30, 1977 (para 37).
(b) GOA to establish the Groundwater Committees by
November 30, 1977 (para 38).
(c) GOA to appoint a Joint Director of Agriculture
by December 31, 1977 (para 35).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) GOA to provide housing and office facilities to
the agricultural extension staff (para 46).
(e) GOA to provide credit facilities to extension
staff to purchase suitable means of transport
and to provide financial incentive to ensure
optimum use of these means (para 46).
(f) GOA to review cooperative credit structure in
Assam, prepare a time schedule of implementing
the resulting recommendations, and implement
such recommendations accordingly (see para 53).
(g) GOA to carry out project monitoring and evalua-
tion in a manner that would be satisfactory to
the Association (see para 54).



on-
-28- '_                                                                                                                      _   28--
INDIA ,
ASSAM    AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              -  t      '   N S U K I A
DISTRICTS,SUB-DIVISIONS,RESEARCH AND FIELD TRIAL STATIONS,AND PROJECT GROUNDWATER AREAS           cTNSUKIA
/  LAKHI p   '   D IB    G
SUKULIBORA    D I B RUG A RH
NO R TH    k1     /
B    H    U     T    A    N                   ,          ( ,  A           K           S I B SAGA A R H I M P
*                                                   > tL. 7 \ - -       -" JO R H A T
~~~~.-'                     R~~~~~~~~~TE  Z  P  UR  Js IBSA       A R
-J 7 7 ', D jA R R A N G __o (/ O                                  JORHAT
K OKRA J H A R    L                        D      R  R A   N  G A L                       ,,-
KAAGO                      A LTN[A R I MANGALDOI                '          0       TITABAR/
BALAGAON            P       E TA--
G O A    L P           R         U
r*r* ,  )JI(~NG3G ' MIK I R r    I  -'
' /-   4  _     wSHILgONGANI  H I L L S -
t , ~~~~P A R A           G A DSUSh H A T It 
IPARA      ~~~~~~~~~~GAUHATI)
U <                                      \      rp    M I  0  R _OJ
v              ty -\9~~~// F> ? 0 
00KIR                        j 
HI  L L S          ,\e
A y-  4 N D  T'4Nc../.0       20  40  C0  "I  IDc  120  140  160
MILES
no.                                                      'I>  N     0   R  T  Fl  50     0  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100
90_ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _C                                      A     RK                              LOMETERS
C A C H A PM
eerS-?l  r  C Fl I N A                               X->s_v 
"I_   11                                         K rl                                        P , (  r o iect G,o.,Gdwater Areas
If /Br TA EHUTA                                                   -.                        *  AAU Research Slalaons
) - t t.9K-  Sk  ~ MAHAKAL  /*A Field Triol Stat,ons
I  r                            KARI  JJ      -  *   A                          O   Assor  Agricultural Universlty, Jorhat
,   I N D I A  8 t- ''                       J      C  Al C, H  A  R  I                   *  Stote Capital
I N  D(suRrd I                                  .-                                      ---  -  Internationo  Boundaries
D ,,w'EANGLADESH .>  .   \  t  ~     /     -'        -     Slote           Boundoreue
S    BoundariesDistrict Boundaries
r'  A (   6 A /  ..   \  /  J             Sub-D-uision,l Boundar,es
z    \ ~~~8/                                         /\s                                    .U . f . 
z     J    I N GA  I  .unI...u   -ri,           N-**** r                                                                       -
<  .)ANrA   -24-                                                                                            a,24 r4



