CREDIT NUMBER        IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Assam Agricultural Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      .xV V\   3             C 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  7"-      30                  , 1977, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Assam with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to Assam the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and Assam;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Assam" means the State of Assam, a State of India,
and includes any successor thereof;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Assam of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c) "AAU" means Assam Agricultural University, a university
created by the Assam Agricultural University Act, 1968, of Assam,
and includes any successor thereof.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expc ditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be pro-
cured in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from tine to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each January
15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 1988, and ending July 15,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on July 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
01


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Assam to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Assam to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Assam in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.


﻿-7-
I
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof; namely, that Assam shall have failed
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof; namely, that the event specified in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and Assam.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, navaly,
that the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of Assam has
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
Section 5.02. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agree-
ment has been duly authorized or ratified by Assam, and is legally
binding upon Assam in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                         '4)- So ) 1 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Officer on Special Duty, Director or Deputy Secretary of
the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2.0433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿10-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By N
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                3,700,000           80%
(2) Overseas and                 600,000           100% of foreign
local training                                expenditures or
and consultants'                              80% of local ex-
services                                      penditures
(3) Equipment and              1,600,000           80%
vehicles
(4) Salaries of in-            1,500,000           45%
cremental staff
(5) Unallocated                  600,000
TOTAL      8,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit ahall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Credit may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13'-
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿-14-
Association under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's rea-
sonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to reorganize and strengthen the
agricultural extension service, develop and strengthen adaptive
research facilities and strengthen the Irrigation Department of
Assam in order to develop groundwater resources in Assam over a
period of five years and consists of the following:
Part A:   Completion of the reorganization by June 30, 1980,
of the agricultural extension service started in 1976
and strengthening such service by Assam through the
provision of additional staff, housing, offices,
equipment, transportation and staff training.
Part B:   Establishment of about nine field trial stations by
the Department of Agriculture of Assam through farm
development, provision of staff and staff training,
laboratory facilities, housing, hostel accommodation,
equipment and vehicles.
Part C:   Strengthening the Irrigation Department through the
provision of staff and staff training, vehicles and
equipment to enable the Department to, inter alia,
supervise Assam's shallow tubewell installation program
and undertake groundwater surveys and monitoring,
research, design, installation and field testing of


﻿- 16 -
alternative types of shallow tubewells and pumping
techniques.
Part D:   Monitoring the progress of the Project and evaluating
its impact by Assam through the provision of staff,
equipment and funds.
Part E:   (i) Development and upgrading of two commodity-oriented
research stations and one sub-station of AAU
through farm development, provision of staff and
staff training, laboratory facilities, housing,
hostel accommodation, equipment and vehicles;
and
(ii) provision of about 12 man-months of consultancy
services to solve agricultural problemso
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the     i      day of
197_L.
*                                                  FOR SECRETARY


