-


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
--- TU " C- i
AGREEMENT, dated                           1977 between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and THE STATE OF ASSAM, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Assam).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Assam agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS Assam, in consideration cf the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undert'ake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
i'


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Assam shall and shall cause AAU to carry out
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and
660  engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist AAU in carrying out Part
E of the Project, Assam shall cause AAU to employ agricultural
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be mutually agreed upon between
Assam and the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Assam undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
.',4


﻿-4-
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
paya'le in a currency freely usable by Assam to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Assam
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Assam shall and shall cause AAU to furnish
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Assam shall and shall cause AAU to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to them by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such


﻿-5-
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to them and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.06. (a) Assam shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) Assam shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Assam of its obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) Assam shall ensure that village level
extension workers, agricultural extension officers and subdivi-
sional staff engaged in extension service will live in the area
assigned for their operations and for this purpose Assam shall
provide such low-cost housing and other buildings as may be
necessary. Such housing and other buildings shall be constructed
in accordance with the design standards established by Assam for
such workers and officers. The aforementioned design standards
shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Assam
shall, by March 31, 1978 or such later date as may be agreed
by the Association, complete a survey to determine the location of
the housing and buildings to be financed from the proceeds of the
Credit.
Section 2.08. In order to ensure the mobility of staff
engaged in extension service under the Project, Assam undertakes
to make available:
(a) to all such staff who are in need of credit for the
purchase of suitable means of transport, such credit, on terms
and conditions which will create an incentive for the purchase of
such means of transport; and
(b) such financial incentive as is required to ensure the
optimum use of such means of transport.
Section 2.09. In order to carry out the Project, Assam shall
and shall cause AAU to appoint qualified staff in accordance with
a schedule to be agreed between the Association and Assam.
Section 2.10. By December 31, 1977 or such later date as may
be agreed by the Association, Assam shall cause AAU to appoint an
experienced senior research scientist to assist in the formulation
of research proposals and in the organization and management of
research programs under Parts B and E of the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 2.11. (a) For the purposes of coordinating the
activities of various departments and agencies of Assam and AAU,
or any other agency concerned with the execution of the Project
or any part thereof, Assam shall establish, by November 30, 1977
or such later date as may be agreed by the Association, a Project
Coordinating Committee. This Committee shall be chaired by the
A   Chief Secretary of Assam or the Agricultural Production Commis-
sioner and shall meet at least twice a year.
(b) Assam shall establish a State Level Technical Committee
and District Level Technical Committees to formulate and review
seasonal extension and adaptive trial programs. These Committees
shall meet at least twice a year.
(c) By November 30, 1977 or such later date as may be
agreed by the Association, Assam shall establish a Groundwater
Coordinating Committee to formulate overall policies, set annual
targets, and ensure coordination of groundwater development
work. This Committee shall meet at least four times a year.
Section 2.12. Assam shall carry out continuous monitoring and
evaluation of the Project in such form as shall be mutually agreed
between Assam and the Association by December 31, 1977 or such
later date as may be agreed by the Association. The results
of such monitoring and evaluation shall be sent to the Association
at least once a year.


﻿-8-
Section 2.13. In order to ensure the efficient implementation
of the building component under Parts A and B of the Project,
Assam shall establish a Special Project Implementation Unit under
a qualified engineer within its Public Works Department by Novem-
ber 30, 1977 or such later date as may be agreed by the Associa-
tion.
Section 2.14. Assam shall review, in consultation with the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI), RBI's past studies for strengthening
the cooperative credit structure in Assam, in particular, measures
to improve the collection of overdue debts and shall draw up by
March 31, 1978 or such later date as may be agreed by the Associa-
tion, a time schedule for the implementation of the recommenda-
tions arising from such review. Thereafter, Assam shall implement
such recommendations accordingly.
Section 2.15. In order to carry out Part B of the Project,
Assam shall appoint one full-time Joint Director of Agriculture
(Adaptive Trials) by December 31, 1977 or such later date as may
be agreed by the Association.


﻿ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Assam shall and shall cause AAU to maintain
separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices their opera-
tions and financial condition related to the Project.
Section 3.02. Assam shall and shall cause AAU to: (i) have
an annual audit satisfactory to the Association made of their
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent and qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of their financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Assocation shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-10 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Assam thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Assam of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                    440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Assam:
Agricultural Production Commissioner
Government of Assam
Gauhati 781006
Assam, India
Cable address:
AGRIASSAM
Gauhati (India)


﻿-12 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Assam may be taken or executed
by Assam or such other person or persons as Assam shall designate
in writing.
Section 5.03. Assam shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf
of Assam, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by Assam pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-13-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United State of America, as of the da and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE STATE OF ASSAM
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works and vehicles shall be let on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association. To the extent it may be
practicable to do so, civil works shall be grouped and tenders
shall be invited for every group and each work separately, at the
bidders' option. If no qualified contractor presents a bid for any
such work, it shall be carried out by departmental construction
(force account).
2.   Contracts for purchase of equipment and furniture shall
be bulked wherever possible and (i) if the value of such equipment
and furniture is estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more,
it shall be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertized
locally and in accordance with procedures of Assam satisfactory to
the Association; and (ii) if the value of such equipment and
furniture is estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent it may
be procured by prudent shopping through normal commercial chan-
nels.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment and
motor vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:


﻿-15-
(a) Before bids are invited, Assam shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications-in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Assam
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with this Schedule, promptly inform Assam and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.


﻿-16-
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Assam shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
this Schedule, promptly inform Assam and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    3 C     day of
197 7.
FOR SECRETARY


