Report No. PID9216
Project Name                     Kenya-District AIDS & Reproductive Health
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       KEPE66486
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND NATIONAL AIDS
CONTROL COUNCIL
Ministry of Health, Afya House, Cathedral
Road, P.O. Box 30016, Nairobi
Contact Person: Prof. J.S. Meme,
Permanent Secretary
Tel: 254 2 717077
Fax: 254 2 715239
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 2, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         June 12, 2000
Projected Board Date             October 2, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
By the 1970s, Kenya had built a health sector which performed relatively
well compared to neighboring countries, and some of the country's health
indicators were among the best in Sub-Saharan Africa, such as an IMR of 62
in 1993.   However,   the health sector has been in decline since the late
1980s, both in terms of the services provided and the health of the Kenyan
populace.   Mainly due to the economic governance issues covered in the
CAS, an impressive service network of over 3,000 health facilities and
more than 25,000 trained health workers is no longer capable of sustaining
the previously realized gains in infant and child mortality and life
expectancy. In fact, the 1998 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey
revealed that infant and child mortality have increased, resulting in a 46
percent rise in Under-5 mortality since 1989.     Life expectancy has
decreased from 59 in 1991 to an estimated 47.6 in 1998 (US Census
Bureau). The reasons for these trends include the expanding HIV/AIDS
epidemic, the poor management of health facilities, allocative and
technical inefficiencies, under-funding of the sector, and a declining
socio-economic situation.These trends substantiate even further the need
for basic organizational reform of the MoH and for the implementation of
strategic plans for HIV/AIDS, IMCI and Reproductive Health in order to
achieve its stated health goals.    Key lessons from previous MoH/WB
Projects (Health Rehabilitation, Population IV and STI) also highlighted
priority areas for action within the NHSSP framework.As in other African
countries, HIV/AIDS has become a development crisis in Kenya. In 1990,
the adult (15-49 years) HIV prevalence was estimated at 5.8 percent. This
prevalence rate has been growing at an average of 11 percent per year,
thus reaching 13.9 percent in 1998, and may have reached 15 percent in
1999. Under this scenario, the number of Kenyans infected with HIV AIDS
would reach 3 million in 2010. This implies that the number of cumulative



AIDS deaths would be as high as 2.7 million by 2005. Given that 80
percent of these deaths are expected to occur among the population aged 15
to 49, some studies have estimated that GDP in year 2015 could be 14.5
percent lower than in a baseline scenario without AIDS, while income per
capita could drop by as much as 10 percent. Our own conservative
estimates of GDP losses for the period 2000-2020 range between 12 percent
and 16 percent (in present value). These losses occur not only as the
labor force shrinks and labor productivity falls (a one percentage point
increase in the HIV/AIDS prevalence rate could be associated with an 8
percent reduction in labor productivity), but also because it becomes
socially optimal to reduce the savings rate of the economy and slowdown
the accumulation of capital. Hence, the savings rate of the economy in
year 2015 is expected to drop by more than 12 percent.     Our calculations
suggest that even in the case of conservative estimates about potential
benefits and pessimistic views about costs, Kenyan policymakers should
target sharp reductions in the short-run. These reductions approximate 20
percent of the current prevalence rate and are close to the maximum
reduction that could be achieved, given today's number of HIV/AIDS
infected individuals.While the government's commitment to aggressively
respond to the HIV/AIDS challenge on a multi-sectoral level has not been
as strong as it should be, the last year has brought evidence that this
commitment is growing as the issue has been given increased visibility by
the top political leadership and a National AIDS Control Council (NACC)
has been put in place to coordinate a national, multi-sectoral response to
the epidemic. The National AIDS Strategy (Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1997)
was passed by Parliament in September, 1997, and the National HIV/AIDS and
STD Control Program has finalized its strategic plan. Furthermore, the
efforts financed by donors and the IDA-financed STI Project have yielded
some impressive accomplishments: (i) chances for transmission of HIV
through blood transfusions have been drastically curtailed as 98 percent
of the country's blood supply is now screened for HIV; (ii) awareness has
been raised such that 38.6 percent of the population can now name at least
two important methods of preventing HIV infection; and (iii) social
marketing and IEC efforts have resulted in an increased distribution of
condoms from 2.4 million in 1995 to an estimated 80 million in 1999.While
some reproductive health indicators have declined along with general
health indicators over the last decade, Kenya's population program has
achieved significant impact which must be sustained. Since 1979, the TFR
has decreased from 7.9 to 4.7 children per woman, the Population Growth
Rate (PGR) has declined from 3.6 to 2.6 percent, and the Contraceptive
Prevalence Rate (CPR) among married women has increased from 7 percent to
39 percent (31 percent for modern methods).    A significant challenge of
any future support to this subsector will be to better integrate and
coordinate the delivery of reproductive health services, as well as the
relevant divisions within the Ministry, with those for STI/HIV/AIDS.Of
particular concern to the MoH is the increase in infant and child
mortality, resulting in a 46 percent rise in Under-5 mortality since
1989. Childhood mortality in Kenya is largely due to malaria, pneumonia,
diarrhea, measles and malnutrition, and mostly a combination of two or
more of these diseases. The evidence that a large proportion of
childhood morbidity and mortality in the developing countries and in
Kenya is caused by just five conditions does not in itself argue for an
integrated approach to management of childhood illness. However, most
sick children present with signs and symptoms related to more than one of
these conditions and this overlap means that a single diagnosis may be
-2 -



neither possible nor appropriate. IMCI is a broad strategy, encompassing
interventions at home and in the health facility which aims to reduce
childhood death, illness and disability and to contribute to improved
growth and development. The strategy combines improved management of
childhood illness with aspects of nutrition, immunization and several
other important influences on child health, including maternal health.
The core intervention is the integrated case management of the five most
important causes of childhood deaths. However, the combination of
interventions may be modified to include other important conditions.The
IMCI strategy has been accepted by the GoK and appears in the NHSSP as one
of the essential clinical and public health care packages. The project
will support the MoH in its implementation with the aim of including all
the programs in the strategy. The implementation will start in three
districts, i.e., Kijiado, Vihiga and Embu.The definite statement of the
long-term vision of the MoH has been defined in the GOK document, "Health
Policy Framework 1994". It states that an improvement of the health
status of all Kenyans will be achieved through the implementation of six
strategic imperatives: (i) to ensure the equitable allocation of
government resources to reduce disparities in health status; (ii) to
increase the cost-effectiveness of resource allocation and use; (iii) to
continue to manage population growth; (iv) to enhance the regulatory role
of the Government in all aspects of health care provision; (v) to create
an enabling environment for increased private sector and community
involvement in health service provision and financing; and (vi) to
increase and diversify per capita financial flows to the health sector.
Though implementation has not yet progressed significantly, the MOH has
undertaken a Health Sector Reform Program with support of the donor
community. Decentralization features prominently on the agenda of the
reform program, and progress made in this regard to date includes the
provision of Health Care Services Funds where 75 percent of the revenues
generated are utilized by the collecting facility and 25 percent directed
to the source districts to support Primary Health Care activities. The
issuance of Authority to Incur Expenditures (AIE), related to funds
generated through cost-sharing, has been delegated to the provincial level
and District Health Management Boards have been empowered to superintend
the management of the cost-sharing and exchequer funds and the overall
delivery of district health services.
2. Objectives
The project development objectives are: (i) to slow the increase in HIV
prevalence rates; (ii) to improve mother and child health through more
integrated delivery of HIV/AIDS, child survival and reproductive health
services, increasing the efficiency of the Government in delivering these
services and maintaining the accomplishments of Kenya's population
program; and (iii) creating an enabling environment for decentralized
managed delivery of HIV/AIDS, child survival and reproductive
health-related services to and within districts.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The project builds upon the experience and knowledge gained from previous
projects (Health Rehabilitation and Fourth Population), ongoing projects
(Sexually-Transmitted Infections) and sector work, conducted by MoH, the
Bank and bilateral donors. Specific studies and documents include: (i)
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which brought out the issue of
governance as a major constraint to effective development;    (ii) the
- 3-



Bank's involvement in the efforts to improve financial management and
fiscal decentralization under the STI Project; (iii) the development of
the NHSSP and the preparations for the elaboration of a Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework; and (iv) the Budget Analysis Study, the
Situational Analysis and the National Health Accounts Study.The lessons
learned from granting autonomy to Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) will be
relevant under the decentralization component when facilitating the
autonomy for provincial and district hospitals. Experience with
decentralization issues in other countries, like Zambia and Uganda, is an
advantage of the Bank that the Borrower has shown appreciation for and
would like to exploit. Donor agencies have pointed to the relative
advantage of the Bank in facilitating changes related to government
structures and procedures.Finally, the Bank has taken the lead in the
re-orientation of the response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic from a medical
issue to a development one. The launch in Nairobi of the Bank's regional
AIDS strategy, "Intensifying Action Against AIDS in Africa", was well
received by both the Government and the private sector, as well as by the
bilateral and multilateral donors. Through the Bank's regional "AIDS
Campaign Team" (ACTafrica) and UNAIDS, the Bank is well positioned to make
regional issues and experiences available to the project. In addition,
the STI Project has been re-worked since its Mid-Term Review to
concentrate on the creation of an enabling environment for the expansion
of the response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The project would build on the
recognized achievements in this area.
4. Description
Decentralization
This component will support the Government in implementing its
decentralization policy by improving mechanisms for fiscal
decentralization, building capacity at district level for result-oriented
planning and financial management, and piloting greater degrees of
decentralized managerial and fiscal control in the districts while
promoting transparency and both technical and financial accountability.
Reforms aimed at improving institutional and operational support to the
districts, such as the restructuring of the Medical Supplies Coordinating
Unit and the support to revolving drug funds in the periphery, will be
addressed under this component. Involvement by, and feedback to, local
communities in the management of health services will be promoted to
improve the appropriateness and transparency of public service delivery.
An intensified and expanded decentralization program will be established
in eight "Phase 1" districts, one in each province. This intensified and
expanded program includes provisions for: (i) intensive monitoring of
health expenditures through District Health Expenditure Reviews; (ii)
delegation of the responsibility for drug procurement; (iii) increased
responsibility and authority regarding human resource management; and (iv)
increased autonomy for district hospitals. As the decentralization agenda
further develops, other related activities may be considered for support
in these "Phase 1" districts.HIV/AIDS
Activities supported under this component include interventions intended
to expand and intensify the response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and aimed at
advocacy and awareness, preventing new infections (behavior change
interventions, condom use, blood safety, school education programs,
voluntary counseling and testing, etc.) and mitigating the impact of the
epidemic by supporting those infected and affected. The procurement of
condoms, drugs for opportunistic infection and HIV test material will be
- 4 -



supported under this component. Gender aspects and the specific
vulnerability of women, adolescents and the poor will receive special
emphasis. The transformation of Kenya's response to the epidemic into a
national, multi-sectoral endeavor will be supported through a specific
subcomponent that targets the coordination of the various initiatives
through the NACC. Support to the implementation of district workplans, as
a major area of emphasis, is designed to accommodate flexibility in
responding to changes in the operational, social and/or epidemiological
situation. Reproductive Health
Under this component, issues will be addressed that relate to reproductive
health in its broader concept, including family planning, safe motherhood,
women's status, child survival and sexually-transmitted infections. This
component builds on the National Reproductive Health Strategy and its
Implementation Plan, elaborated and disseminated with support under the
Fourth Population Project. District plans have been developed and the
project will provide support for training, including the conduct of
maternal death audits, procurement of essential inputs (FP commodities,
drugs, and equipment), and IEC. Special emphasis will be put on the
provision of services for the youth. Elements under this component
include support for (the gradual introduction of ) IMCI, including malaria
and micro-nutrient related activities.
Decentralization
HIV/AIDS
Reproductive Health
Unallocated
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               0
IBRD
IDA                      50
Total Project Cost       50
6. Implementation
Implementation arrangements will seek to enhance appropriate GoK
institutional capacity, at district, provincial and central level. The
MoH will be accountable for the decentralization process and the
performance of the health service delivery related components of the
project, while the inter-sectoral HIV/AIDS component will be the
responsibility of the Office of the President as the parent ministry of
the NACC. District Medical Officers will be responsible for the
implementation of the decentralization policy at district level and for
the implementation of the district workplans supported by the project.
Funds will be advanced to project-specific Ledger Accounts as subaccounts
of District Reimbursement Development Accounts. Funds will be used
against eligible expenditure categories for activities that have been
included in annual district workplans. District Health Management Boards
and Health Facility Committees will be responsible for the oversight of
project implementation at district and subdistrict level. The
implementation of central level activities (coordination activities,
reforms, central procurement) will be the responsibility of the MoH,
- 5 -



through the Division of Primary Health Care, the Health Reform Secretariat
and the National AIDS and STD Control Program, and of the NACC, through
its Secretariat.Figure 1 below illustrates the institutional and
implementation arrangements. Within the scope of this project, these
reflect the transitional management framework to support the MoH in
operationalizing its proposed decentralized framework and the proposed new
MoH in the NHSSP. It is proposed, therefore, that the Health Sector
Reform Secretariat (HSRS) of the Ministerial Reform Committee (MRC) be
responsible for coordinating the Project. While it is noted that the HSRS
is, itself, a transitional structure with no line responsibility, the
nature of the Project does not lend itself to fit within any of the
existing Departments or Divisions of the MoH. These arrangements will be
finalized at Appraisal.Since the Project is not a comprehensive Health
Sector Reform Program, a DARE Project Steering Committee (DSC) will be
established as a subcommittee of the MRC. The Director of Medical
Services (DMS) will chair the DSC, with the HSRS acting as Secretariat.
Component Coordinators will be appointed, within the Department/Divisions
that have the operational responsibility for that component. In addition,
an overall Project Coordinator will be appointed to ensure
synchronization of the components and will be responsible, as part of the
MRC, for the achievement of the broader development objectives of the
Project. Since the lead component is the decentralization component, it
is recommended that the Head of the HSRS play the role of Project
Coordinator.   As distinct from the role of the MRC, the role of the DSC
will be to supervise the progress of the Project and to ensure that there
are clear accountability mechanisms for the resources provided through the
project. The DSC will comprise the Project Coordinator, the Component
Coordinators, the Director of NACC, the MoH Senior Personnel Officer
(SPPO) and/or a representative from the Department of Public Management
(DPM), the MoH Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and/or a representative from
the Treasury, and Ministry of Local Government. Given the reform nature
of the Project, the DSC will be responsible for bringing to the MRC
appropriate policy issues for their approval and elaboration and to also
provide linkages to DPM and the Treasury on policy issues related to
personnel and finance. Within the decentralization component, planning
mechanisms will be established at the Central, Provincial and District
levels. These will be developed jointly with all stakeholders and refined
in the eight Phase 1 decentralization districts which have been selected
using the new resource allocation criteria. Using a phased approach to
implementation will ensure that management capacities at all levels are
not overwhelmed by the transition period, when many managers will be
playing dual roles as authority is being devolved.      As a first step, the
HSRS will convene a Joint Decentralization Working Group comprising the
HSRS, Provincial Medical Officers and the District Medical Officer for the
Phase 1 Districts to elaborate and disseminate the three-year log frame
and action plan for decentralization. This will form the basis for the
Project Implementation Plan including establishing the linkages between
the service improvement components and the decentralization
component.Figure 1: Implementation ArrangementsP=Provincial Level,
D=District LevelNumerous Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs),
including those in the Kenyan health sector, have cautioned of the
difficulties involved with implementation of a project across multiple
ministries. Given the need to launch a multi-sectoral effort to battle
HIV/AIDS as a development crisis, the involvement of multiple ministries
in this project will be unavoidable. Extensive discussions among the
- 6-



Bank, Government, and other partners in development have been initiated on
how the lessons of these past projects can be incorporated into the design
of the implementation arrangements for this project -- including a clear
definition of roles and accountability, as well as of lines of authority.
This issue will be further explored at Appraisal.
7. Sustainability
The MoH's commitment to and ownership of the issues addressed within the
context of the project has extended beyond the central Ministry to involve
provincial and district levels. While the focus will be on building
district capacity and improving their performance as health providers, it
is important that the transition from a centrally-controlled system be
carefully managed in order that current health achievements are not lost
and services are not disrupted within the communities. The change process
should be managed proactively so as to ensure ownership by both government
and the communities they represent. Many reform programs fail due to
their inability to address the behavioural aspects of the change process -
the discomfort that managers and staff will experience will need to be
balanced by mechanisms which ensure focus on the strategic objective of
improving the well-being of all Kenyans and the linkages of this project
to that objective.The project will be a process- and action-oriented
project with clear benchmarks for performance and dynamic monitoring and
review mechanisms that will form part of the institutional framework of
the reformed MoH. Clear accountability mechanisms will need to be
established and the process must involve all levels of management within
the sector. The project process will aim to provide a learning-by-doing
experience that allows a new organizational culture and management style
to emerge. In order to do this, the project will support the MoH to
operationalize the proposed decentralized framework and build the
performance management framework of the project around the workplan
process. The opportunities for review and change during implementation
will, therefore, be built into the policy, planning and budgeting process
of the MoH.With the continued success of the population program the GoK
has demonstrated that commitment and ownership, together with a
carefully-managed change process, achievements can be made to last. The
financial sustainability remains a challenge, both in view of the
limitations in anticipated economic growth in the immediate future, and in
view of the increasing burden on the health sector as a result of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. The efficiency gains that may be achievable through
the decentralization process are unlikely to become evident until
sufficient capacity has been built and new management arrangements are
fully operational.The sustainable financing of essential inputs into the
sector (equipment, drugs and commodities) will be addressed in the context
of developing a health sector financing strategy which aims to increase
financial resources for health as well as to support the effectiveness and
equitable application of those resources in a sustainable manner and with
transparent and fair mechanisms for ensuring access to health care by the
poor, including exemption criteria and/or improving access to prospective
payment systems like community-based funding or health insurance.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Main lessons learned from the two recently- closed projects (Cr. 2110-KE,
Fourth Population Project; and Cr. 2310-KE, Health Rehabilitation Project)
and from the project currently under implementation (Cr. 2686-KE,
Sexually-Transmitted Infections Project) include:(i) Stakeholder
- 7 -



Consultation: Key stakeholders, particularly those with an important role
in implementation, should be involved from project identification, through
preparation and appraisal, and throughout implementation. This need is
being addressed through the Participation Action Plan and the broad
participation in project preparation, as detailed elsewhere in this
document.(ii) Monitorable Indicators: Clearly defined performance
indicators should be agreed upon at appraisal to ensure effective and
timely implementation, and to enable proper monitoring. Annual
workplans/implementation plans also contribute to the depth and quality of
supervision. Monitorable indicators have been included in Annex 1 and
will continue to be refined. A rolling two-year implementation
plan/workplan will be used by the project.(iii) Procurement, Contract
Management and Logistics: The employment of an independent procurement
agency should be considered whenever appropriate. The Bank and the GoK
have agreed to employ a procurement agent for all IDA-financed procurement
under the project. In addition, past experience has shown the need for
more intense supervision at the contract stage (after IDA's "no-objection"
is given) to ensure timely completion of the procurement. As a condition
of appraisal, the MoH will provide IDA with service standards and
accountability measures for this stage. Finally, large IDA-financed
procurements in recent years have revealed a need for better planning and
capacity building in logistics and supplies management (post-delivery of
goods). A logistics management consultancy has already been floated and
will be awarded for this purpose under the project. (iv) Financial
Management: The introduction of a streamlined payment procedure,
establishment of a payment application (PA) tracking system, and regular
reporting on the performance of the system have been agreed and
implemented. Prior to appraisal, the MoH will inform IDA of increased
accountability measures in the payment system. An action plan, with
agreed outcomes, to address the financial management system within the MoH
has been agreed upon, and specified progress against that action plan is a
condition of appraisal. Finally, as has been the case across IDA's Kenya
portfolio, past experience has demonstrated a need to ensure a timely flow
of funds to the project and, in cases of decentralized activities, on down
to the districts. The Ministry of Finance has recently released a
circular intended to address this issue. MoH will implement this circular
under the STI Project prior to DARE appraisal, and the appraisal mission
will discuss any further strengthening of the circular that might be
necessary.(v) Importance of Close Monitoring and Supervision: The
experience of the projects in the health portfolio clearly demonstrates
the direct relationship between intensified supervision and implementation
progress. The achievements of the final years of implementation of the
Fourth Population Project and the Health Rehabilitation Project, and the
improved relationship with the Borrower are largely due to intensified
supervision by IDA, and this intense supervision will be carried over onto
this project.(vi) Counterpart Funds:    A further rationalization of the
GoK's portfolio of projects, consistent with the Bank's CAS, is required,
as evidenced by the implementation delays caused by the unavailability of
the required GoK counterpart funding.(vii) Civil Works: Problems with
civil works in previous projects have prevented them from significantly
contributing to the fulfillment of those projects' development
objectives. No civil works are envisioned under this project. Any minor
needs that might arise due to the project's community-level focus would be
handled through community-based procurement and management.(viii)
Training: Training under previous projects proved overly-costly relative
- 8 -



to the benefits, and was not managed in a rational manner. No overseas
training is envisioned under this project, and the planned training will
be directly related to the project's district focus and planned in a
manner consistent with the capacity needs of the relevant cadres of
staff.(ix) Donor Coordination: Donor coordination should be maintained
throughout project implementation, particularly with regard to procurement
planning, policy, common implementation constraints, and project
restructuring. This should include a diligent effort on the part of the
Borrower to coordinate IDA-financed goods and services with those provided
by donors, thus ensuring an efficient, prioritized response to the
country's needs. There must also be sufficient communication and
consultation within the MoH regarding the goods and services to be
procured. To address the coordination of procurement, donors will be
heavily involved in the preparation and appraisal mission and, thus, the
procurement planning for the project. Given the project's envisioned role
in advancing the country's health sector reform agenda, ongoing
coordination will take place within the framework of the Health Sector
Reform working group and regular IDA-donor meetings. The more
comprehensive focus on health care delivery, both in terms of the
increased coordination and integration within MoH and the decentralization
of planning and resources, will address the problem of earlier projects
with regard to insufficient intra-Ministry consultation and coordination
on procurement decisions.(x) Inter-Dependence of Components: When the
ability of one component to achieve its objectives is dependent on the
success of another component, the relationship between the components must
be considered at appraisal and throughout implementation, with particular
attention to: (a) timing of activities in one component relative to those
in the other; (b) relative degrees of preparation; (c) relative levels
of capacity; and (d) susceptibility of each component to risks relative
to the other. Given the comprehensive, integrated nature of this project,
failure in one component would hinder the others. Therefore, particular
care will be taken during preparation and appraisal to ensure a consistent
level of preparedness and to ensure that the necessary capacity is in
place at all levels.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Albertus Voetberg
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-1149
Fax:   (202) 473-8299
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
-9-



Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 9, 2000.
- 10 -



