                                                                                      32581
                                          Republic of Kenya
                 DecentralizedHIV/AIDS and ReproductiveHealthProject
                                          (Credit 3440-KE)
                ProposedAmendment for the DevelopmentCreditAgreement


 Summary

 1.      This memorandum seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to restructure the
 Kenya Decentralized HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health Project (DARE) (Cr. 3440-KE) by
 revising the project development objectives, partly to reflect new data, and proposedmeasures
 to address implementation problems. Restructuring would also include an extension o f the
 closing date o f the credit for the first time by 30 months, reallocating the credit proceeds and
 including new credit categories, modifying the key performance indicators, and amending
procurement procedures and the covenant for Kenyatta National Hospital.                The project
 description on the decentralization component and the implementation o f district grants would
 also be changed.

2.      The original development objectives were to: (i) the increase in HIV prevalence
                                                             slow
rates inthe Borrower's territory; (ii)   improve mother and child health through more integrated
delivery o f HIV/AIDS, child survival and reproductive health services; and (iii)create an
 enabling environment for decentralized managed delivery o f HIV/AIDS, child survival and
reproductive health services to and within Districts. The objectives were the Ministry o f
Health (MOH) response to the 1998 Kenya Demographic Survey (KDHS) and were to be
achieved through implementation o f the broader 1999 Health Sector Strategic Plan. This plan
failed to meet its objectives as reflected inthe 2003 K D H S findings.

3.      It is therefore proposed to amend the project development objectives in line with the
request from the new Government which remains strongly committed to these goals but
wishes them to reflect more accurately the reality on the ground. The amendments also
include a reduction in the coverage o f decentralization and district grants to only a few pilot
districts. The proposed project development objectives would thus read:         "The objectives of
the Project are to: (i) promote theprevention of HIV/AIDS; (ii) improve mother and child
health through increasing and improving reproductive health in selected districts; (iii)
increase access to integrated health services in thepilot districts; and (iv) improvefirzancial
flows and commodity management in local healthfacilities in thepilot districts.`I


Background

4.      The DARE Project was approved by the Board on December 12, 2000 and declared
effective on October 8, 2001. It i s scheduled to close on June 30, 2005. The Project is
financed by an IDA credit o f SDR 38.3 million (about USDSO million equivalent), with the
Republic o f Kenya contributing US$19.4 million.        As o f May 2005, SDR 17.7 million had
been disbursed leaving a balance o f SDR 20.6 million undisbursed, o f which approximately
SDR 1million had been committed. Of the SDR 13.4 million for grants to the districts, only
SDR 2.7 millionhadbeen disbursed.

 5.      The Project has the following project components: (i)     HIV/AIDS US$29.5 million; (ii)
reproductive health US$10.25 million; and (iii)      decentralization US$7.5 million. The district
 grants (amounting to US$18 million, drawn from the three components) were designed to
 increase decentralization o f planning and management o f resources, and to support work plans
 on HIV/AIDS and reproductive health.

 6.      HIV/AIDS. The Project has been the largest source o f funds for the medical response
by the Ministry o f Health-MOH in the national HIV/AIDS program. Through this, the Project
has made a significant contribution to the HIV/AIDS program and shares in the success o f the
 falling HIV prevalence rate from a national high o f around 14% (measured through ante-natal
 surveillance) at project design to a low o f 6.7% (according to the 2003 Kenya Demographic and
 Health Survey, based on the general population). The Project ensured safe blood for three years
 in the country, contributed to the expansion of voluntary counseling centers-VCTs, provided
 drugs for sexually transmitted infections, supported the training o f a critical number o f
personnel on HIV/AIDS, and financed a four-year supply o f condoms (another supply o f
 condoms would be supported during the extended period o f DARE).

 7.      Reproductive Health Component. The Project supported an increased service
 coverage from 3 districts to 25, the procurement o f vaccines and reproductive healthequipment,
and staff training. It was also agreed that the Project would support the MOH inproviding safe
water in fifty two (52) health facilities, following an amendment o f the legal agreement and the
completion o f an Environmental Impact Assessment.            Despite the support fkom the DARE
Project and other projects, the 2003 KDHS showed that a number o f critical reproductive health
indicators had worsened since 1998, including the maternal and child mortality rate,
immunization coverage and deliveries attended by a qualified professional. The project is thus
unable to meet its original reproductive health development objectives.

8.       Decentralization. Some activities under this component have been successfully
implemented, including the development o f a multi-disciplinary district health management
curriculum and support to Kenya Medical Supply Agency (KEMSA). The Project has therefore
contributed partly to the MOH's decentralization strategy. However, the fulfillment o f this
component's objective was undermined by the failure o f the district grants activity. The district
grants were supposed to allow decentralized levels o f government to make decisions and to
prepare integrated district plans for funding by the grants.        However, most o f the expected
district programs failed to be implemented as designed. The other component o f
decentralization (to be implemented in partnership with SIDA) also failed in 14 "Phase 1"
districts. Support was for strengthening the districts' capacity to budget and manage their own
expenditures. Non-wage government funds were to be released to the districts in block grants,
supplemented by an incremental IDA allocation. However, the MOH did not proceed with the
block grants, due to government's lack o f commitment to deepened decentralization, so the
decentralization agenda was not advanced. DARE support for "Phase 1" districts was therefore
discontinued during the Midterm Review done inMarch 2003.

9.      District Grants. At the Mid-term Review it was concluded that the Project was doing
well with the support to the HIV/AIDS and reproductive health activities at national level, but
that it was failing with the flow o f funds to the districts. The district grants were a cross-cutting
activity supported by all o f the three components, and accounted for approximately one-third o f
the total credit. However, only about US$2 million had been disbursed out o f an allocation o f
approximately US$18 million. It was concluded jointly by the World Bank team and the
Government that the implementation o f the district activities had been constrained by multiple
factors, some within the MOH's control, some related to weak capacity at the district level, and
some related to Ministry o f Finance (MOF) procedures. However, the major constraint was the
MOF procedures which strained the administrative capacity o f districts, especially in

                                                                                                    2

 accounting for and replenishing funds.        However, the MOF has recently allowed new
 procedures for passing funds down directly to the local level, which are less cumbersome but
 provide the necessary fiduciary assurances. These procedures are being successfully used by
 the IDA-supported instructional materials program in the Ministry o f Education, Science and
 Technology (MOEST), through the Free Primary Education Support Program (Credit number
 H050 KE).

 Compliance with Legal Covenants

 10.     The DARE project was planned as a "bridge" operation toward a broader Sector-Wide
 Approach (SWAP) support program, and therefore included conditionality on several key
 reforms. Prominent among these was the agreement that the MOH would reduce the share o f
 its budget allocated to Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) from 15% to 10 % over the course o f
 the project. However, the MOH was out o f compliance with this covenant with effect from
 early 2003, when the KNH's share o f the budget rose from 13% (in compliance with the
 covenant) to 15.4% (due to the granting o f increasedallowances to staff). It was agreed that the
 project would finance a consultancy to identify opportunities for cost-savings in the KNH's
 operations. However, by March 2004, little action had been taken and the KNH budget had
 increased further to over 16% o f the MOH recurrent budget.                 Following high level
 consultations, the MOHresponded with an acceptable Sectoral Policy Letter. The MOH i s now
 on track with policy commitments and parallel analytical work i s underway. The work i s also
 feeding into the development o f a new strategic plan. As part o f the credit restructuring, the
 MOH has now committed itself to the following: The Borrower shall ensure that the
 allocation made toprimary health care will continue to increase as a proportion of the total
recurrent budget from the present level of 34% in financial year 2004/05 to 35.9% in
financial year 2005/06 and to 37.4% in 2006/2007. Further, the Borrower will increase the
funding to Nairobi areaprimary health carefrom thepresent Ksh 9 million to Kshl2 million
in 2005/06 to Kshl5 million in 2006/7. The Borrower will complete the study on Kenyatta
National Hospital expenditures and develop an action plan for the implementation of the
recommendationsmade in the study by September 30,2005.

 11,    The project is incompliance with the audits requirements.

Rationale for Restructuring

 12.    The Project is currently not on track to achieve its second and third development
objectives. With the discontinuation o f the district grants, this situation will not change without
a formal restructuring o f the project. Further, the objectives for reproductive health were more
than what could realistically be achieved by the Project, and now need to be adjusted.          IDA
remains committed to continuing to support the health sector, including through a planned
SWAP in FY06, and there is also need to pilot some new approaches in the health sector, both
for their own potential impact and also to help inthe design o f the SWAP.

13.     The design o f the pilots i s based on the concept for the support to schools under the
MOEST's very successful program, which provides individual school facilities with grants to
finance the supply o f instructional materials. However, inview o f the special characteristics o f
the health sector and human resource constraints at lower-level health facilities, it was agreed
that the original concept should be split into two separate pilots, with a "financial flows pilot"
to test the financing mechanisms and a "commodities pilot" to test the facilities' capacity to
engage in direct, competitive procurement o f medical commodities.




                                                                                                  3

ProposedRestructuring

14.    Inorder to ensure that the project achieves the project objectives as earlier defined and
now modified, it i s proposed to restructure the DAREproject as follows:

    0  Refocus and redesign the decentralization component by implementing proposals for
       two pilots to focus on new ways to channel funds to the lower levels o f the health
       system. The pilots would test alternative methods for accomplishing this, and hence
       inform the development o f the new national health strategy. The objectives o f the pilots
       would be to: (a) test mechanisms for the direct Government and external financing o f
       peripheral health facilities ina decentralized health care system, specifically with regard
       to the flow o f funds, financial management and accountability at the facility level,
       commodities planning and procurement by facilities under a demand-driven "pull"
       system; and (b) inform decision-making on the MOH's decentralization efforts and on
       broader efforts to address the financing o f the health system.


    0  Ensure funds and commodities are available at the periphery level to support the
       HIV/AIDS component, including continuing support o f commodities at the central level
       as required and according to the funds available, but also consistent with the MOH's
       Medium Term Procurement Plan (MTPP), recently developed by the MOH and shared
       with stakeholders including donors.


    0  Support to the provision o f reproductive health service's equipment in selected districts
       and in provision o f integrated reproductive health services in the periphery level in the
       pilot districts.

15.    Though not the primary objective o f the exercise, the pilots are expected to have the
following additional benefits:

    0  Demonstrating additional channels for support to the public health care system that are
       likely to be attractive to external financiers and increase opportunities for collaboration
       with development partners;


    0  Providing KEMSA its first opportunity to demonstrate its ability to operate as
       envisioned under its Business Plan, including its capacity to be responsive under a
       "pull" system for the supply o f medical commodities and its capacity to compete on a
       level-playing field, on a scale that minimizes KEMSA's risk while at the same time
       establishing credibility that might facilitate attracting future support from external
       financiers;


    0  Providing other potential suppliers, particularly in the private sector, the opportunity to
       demonstrate their capacity to be responsive to a publicly-financed demand-driven
       system for medical commodities;


    0  Yielding stronger results o f successful MOH-WB collaboration, and informing
       decisions for possible future IDA support; and


    0 Improving the delivery o f local level health services inthe pilot districts.




                                                                                                4

         The main outputs of thepilots would be thefollowing:

         Health facilities enabled to access funding relatively smoothly and on time using the
         new financial system;

         Health facilities demonstrating capacity to use and account for funds;

         Heath facilities achieving value-for-money in the procurement and use of commodities
         through better selection, quantification o f needs, and sourcing o f suppliers;

         Communities demonstrating participation and commitment for providing local oversight
         on the planning and implementation o f the pilot activities;

         Capacities o f health workers, community representatives and other actors at the district,
         provincial and national level, built to manage decentralizedhealth service delivery;

         Patient utilization o f services increased as a result o f the availability o f right type o f
         commodities at the right time; and

         Important lessons learned for further replication on how to channel and account for
         funds to rural healthfacilities, as well as on to procure commodities.

Monitoring& Evaluation

 17.     Given that the primary purpose o f these pilots is to be a learning exercise, the role o f
monitoring and evaluation i s critical.      In response, a detailed M&E framework has been
finalized for implementation prior to the start-up o f the project activities.

Proposed Amendments

18.      Each o f the recommended amendments (fully discussed between the Bank's project
team and representatives o f the Borrower) i s consistent with the earlier recommendations
agreed with IDA Management. The proposed amendments include the reduced coverage inthe
reproductive health and the district grant activities, which have been replaced by the
commodities and financial flow pilots. The pilots will give the opportunity to finance health
facilities at the lowest levels and to avoid implementation delays resulting from district level
procedural constraints. The proposed amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA)     include: (i)modification o f the development objectives;                (ii)inclusion of
Implementation Support Category;         (iii)reallocation among expenditure categories and an
introduction o f a new disbursement category o f district pilots; (iv) modification to the key
performance indicators; (v) modification to procurement procedures; (vi) amendment o f the
covenant on Kenyatta National Hospital; and (vii) extension o f the project period for two and
half years from June 30,2005 to December 31,2007.

(i)Modification of Development Objective.              The project specific objectives have been
designed to be as follows: (i)promote prevention of-HIV/AIDS (ii)          improve mother and child
health through increasing and improving reproductive health in selected districts; (iii)     increase
access to integrated health services in the pilot districts; and (iv) improve financial flows and
commodity management inlocal health facilities inthe pilot districts.




                                                                                                    5

(ii)Inclusionof ImplementationSupport. Monitoring and evaluation will be a key activity in
the restructured Project since it will be important to capture the strengths and weaknesses of the
pilots' implementation, and to respond early to ensure successful implementation o f the Project
in the extended period. An inclusion of some minimal implementation support costs in the
DCAi sjustified to support the supervisionby the MOHstaff.

(iii)Reallocation of Expenditure Categories and New Disbursement Categories as
reflectedon Table I.




                                                                                                6

     Table 1: Schedule 1of the D C A (Expressed inMillion SDR)

Category                Original       Current Amount     Proposed Revised  O hof Expenditure
                        Amount of      of the Credit      Amount of the    to be Financed
                        The Credit     Allocated          Credit Allocated
                        Allocated


(1) Goods               15,250,000     15,250,000         21,350,000        100% of foreign
(including                                                                 expenditures and
equipment,                                                                 90% of local
pharmaceuticals and                                                        expenditures
medical supplies

(2) Consultant's         6,600,000      6,600,000         5,700,000         100% of amounts
services and training                                                      disbursed


(3) Eligible Work       13,400,000     13,400,000         2,700,000        100% o f amounts
Plan Grants                                                                disbursed


(4) Unallocated        3,050,000        1,450,000

(5) Civil Works                         1,600,000         1,600,000        100% o f foreign
                                                                           expenditures and
                                                                           90% of local
                                                                           expenditures


(6)Implementation                                          500,000         90% of local
support                                                                    expenditure




(7) Grants for pilots                                     6,450,000        90% of amounts
                                                                           disbursed


TOTAL                    38,300,000    38,300,000         38,300,000




     (iv) Amendmentsto Performance Indicators. By developingnew indicatorsreflectingthe
     restructuredproject andmodifiedobjectivesas shownon Table 2.




                                                                                         7

                                   C
                                   a
                                   E
                                   5




W
0      W
   a   0    U
            h
                 m     4
   a             W     Q
                 $



                             w
                             s4




                 4
                 0     00
                       VI    4
                             0




                       W
                 VI          P
                             0
                       O


0
3

   B 0
     P    3           v,     CQ
  a       N          0       0

E  3
   a




E  a   4
   a




E      u




E      u




E  a   4
   a


E  a   u
   a

 (v) Modificationto ProcurementProcedures.                In order to ensure timely procurement o f some o f the
 services under the project, it i s proposed to include Selection Based on the Consultant's Qualification (CQS) as
 a method for procuring Consultancy Services.

 (vi) Modificationto Project Safeguard Rating. An amendment to the Project to include the construction o f
boreholes was done in 20003, triggering the need for an Environment Impact Assessment, thus upgrading the
project's environmental classification from a category C status to a B. It i s therefore recommended by the
Regional Safeguards Unit (ASPEN ) that an Environmental Impact Assessment with a costed Environmental
Management Plan and clear institutional arrangements for its implementation will be prepared, reviewed,
approved and disclosed by the Borrower and implemented as recommended. A National Health Care Waste
Management Action Plan is in the process o f being developed and will be disclosed by the Borrower and
implemented as recommended.

 19. Costs, Benefits, and Risks after Amendments.                 The purpose o f the amendments is to facilitate
implementation o f the Project in line with realities on the ground and in response to operational bottlenecks
experienced in financing district based activities. It is also in response to the 2003 KDHS which showed a
worsening o f crucial health indicators (particularly in maternal and child health). The Borrower is responding
by strengtheningprimary health care services inorder to reach the majority o f Kenyans, and especially the poor,
at the lowest levels o f health provision. The pilots will give the Borrower the opportunity to pilot ways of
getting funds and commodities to the primary health care facilities. If successful the MOH, with its partners,
will bring the pilots to scale.     The pilots will also give the advantage o f improving the chance o f the MOH
meeting two o f the MillenniumDevelopment Goals, namely those relating to maternal and child mortality. The
reduced coverage o f the Project responds to the reality inthe districts where the decentralization policy has been
slow to materialize. Since the proposed changes scale down the coverage o f district activities from national (Le.
71 districts) to 2-3 districts, the Project will enable lessons to be learned before going to scale. The risks for the
project not achieving its new expected impact are therefore considerably reduced.

20.         The proposed amendments would not require additional implementation arrangements, since
activities proposed for IDA financing are implemented through the MOH's existing system.

Audit

21.     The audit report was submitted on time for the period ending December 31, 2004. The qualifications in
the audit are being addressed.

                                                 Recommendation

22. Iam satisfied that the proposed modifications o f Cr. 3440- KE comply with the Articles o f Agreement o f
the Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve amending the Development Credit
Agreement, in accordance with the terms o f this memorandum.

