                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000605




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IDA-34400)




                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 38.8 MILLION
                        (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                   FOR A

      DECENTRALIZED REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH AND HIV/AIDS PROJECT




                                 13 May 2008




Human Development 1
Eastern Africa 2
Africa Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 2007)


                   Currency Unit =     Kenya Shilling
                          Ksh 66 =     US$1


                            FISCAL YEAR
                          July 1    ­   June 30


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA     :  Analytical and Advisory Activities
ACU     :  AIDS Control Unit
AfDB    :  African Development Bank
AIDS    :  Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AIE     :  Authority to Incur Expenditures
CACC    :  Constituency AIDS Control Committee
CAS     :   Country Assistance Strategy
CAS     :  Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     :  Community-Based Organization
CIDA    :  Canadian International Development Agency
CPAR    :  Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPR     :  Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DACC    :  District AIDS Control Committee
DANIDA  :  Danish International Development Agency
DARE    :  Decentralized Reproductive Health & AIDS Project
DCA     :  Development Credit Agreement
DfID    :  Department for International Development (U.K.)
DHMB    :  District Health Management Board
DHMT    :  District Health Management Team
DIAC    :  District Intersectoral AIDS Committee
DMO     :  District Medical Officer
DMS     :  Director of Medical Services
DP      :  Development Partners
DPHC    :  Division of Primary Health Care
DPM     :  Directorate of Personnel Management
DSC     :  DARE Project Steering Committee
DTF     :  Decentralization Task Force
TSTL    :  Technical Support Team Leader
EPI     :  Expanded Program of Immunization
ESW     :  Economic and Sector Work
EU      :  European Union
FPLU    :  Family Planning Logistic Unit
GDP     :  Gross Domestic Product
GOK     :  Government of Kenya
GPN     :  General Procurement Notice
GTZ     :  Deutsche Gesellschafi fuer Technische ZusammenaIbeit (German
           Technical Co-operation)

HAPAC   :  HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care Project
HFC     :  Health Facility Committee
KEMSA      Kenya Medical Supplies Agency
MSCU    :  Medical Supplies Coordination Unit
NASCOP     National AIDS Control Program




                Vice President:     Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
              Country Director:     Colin Bruce
               Sector Manager:      Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
            Task Team Leader:       Michael Mills
             ICR Team Leader        Peter Okwero/Monique Vledder

                                                 KENYA
                Decentralized Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 21
 Annex 2. Key Performance indicators and Outputs by Component............................. 22
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 24
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 27
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 28
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 29
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 30
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 33
 A minimum of a one week turnaround is required....................................................... 34
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Decentralized
Country:                Kenya                  Project Name:         Reproductive Health &
                                                                     HIV/AIDS
Project ID:             P066486                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-34400
ICR Date:               03/31/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:             THE REPUBLIC OF
                                                                     KENYA
Original Total
                        XDR 38.3M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 24.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/26/1999     Effectiveness:        10/08/2001       10/08/2001
Appraisal:             06/12/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/12/2000     Mid-term Review:                       09/29/2003
                                      Closing:              06/30/2005       09/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:           Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory         Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                         92                92
Sub-national government administration                          8                 8


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                                  Primary          Primary
Decentralization                                             Secondary        Secondary
Gender                                                       Secondary        Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                      Primary          Primary
Population and reproductive health                            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:        Colin Bruce                       Harold E. Wackman
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas            Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:      Michael Mills                    Albertus Voetberg
ICR Team Leader:          Peter Okwero
ICR Primary Author:       Monique Vledder
                          Peter Okwero



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives are to: (i) improve mother and child health through
more integrated delivery of child survival, reproductive health and HIV/AIDS services,
increasing the efficiency of the Government in delivering these services and maintaining



                                             ii

the accomplishments of Kenya's population program; (ii) slow the increase of HIV
prevalence rates; and (iii) create an enabling environment for decentralized managed
delivery of child survival, reproductive health and HIV/AIDS services to and within
districts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :  To improve mother and child health and improve national infant mortality rates
Value          Infant mortality rate of   Infant mortality
quantitative or                           rate of 68 by end                  79
Qualitative)   73.7 in 1998               of project
Date achieved 05/31/1998                  12/30/2005                         12/30/2005

Comments       The IMR in Kenya worsened over the lifetime of the DARE project from 73.7 in

(incl. %       1998 to 77 in 2003 (DHS) and 79 in 2005. This indicator is not appropriate to

achievement)   monitor progress of project implementation as it is affected by many factors
               beyond the scope of the
Indicator 2 :  To slow the increase in HIV/AIDS prevalence rates by age and gender

Value          National HIV/AIDS          National

quantitative orprevalence of 13.9         prevalence of 15                   5.1%
Qualitative)   percent among adults (15-percent (or lower)
               49 years) in 1998          by end of project
Date achieved 05/30/1998                  06/30/2005                         12/30/2006

Comments       The indicator of HIV/AIDS prevalence was achieved, although it is now widely

(incl. %       accepted that prevalence is not a good indicator to measure progress in the fight

achievement)   against HIV/AIDS, as it measures a cumulative of the disease over time. It is also
               affected by m
               To create an enabling environment for decentralized management of reproductive
Indicator 3 :  health-related services, including improvements in the percentage of attended
               births.

Value          Percentage of births

quantitative orattended to by qualified   65 percent by end                  42%
Qualitative)   health workers: 56         of project
               percent
Date achieved 05/30/1998                  12/30/2005                         12/30/2005
Comments       The indicator was not achieved, the % of births attended by qualified health
(incl. %       workers decreased over the lifetime of the project from 56% in 1998 to 40.8% in
achievement)   2003 (DHS) and 42% in 2005.




                                               iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised       Completion or
                                                documents)     Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Integrated district health planning and implementation of health services
                strengthened

Value           Number of districts with Presently (2006)

(quantitative   and implementing            all districts have                100%
or Qualitative) integrated district         integrated didtrict
                workplans: 0                workplans
Date achieved 05/30/1998                    12/30/2005                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator has been achieved. The planning tools currently used at district

achievement)    level were developed by the DARE and SIDA financed RIHS program.

Indicator 2 :   Districts supported to implement a comprehensive HIV/AIDS prevention and
                mitigation program, including functioning VCT facilities
Value           Percentage of districts
(quantitative   with functioning VCT        All district have                 100%
or Qualitative) facilities: 24 percent      VCT facilities

Date achieved 05/31/1999                    12/30/2005                        06/30/2007
Comments        Through the DARE project the government expanded voluntary counseling and
(incl. %        testing (VCT) coverage to over 200 sites in 44 districts (total 77 districts) and
achievement)    provided drugs for sexually transmitted infections.

Indicator 3 :   Districts supported to implement their district reproductive health workplans,
                including addressing unment need for family planning services

Value           Contraceptive prevalence    35 percent using
(quantitative   rates, by age per district: modern methods                    39%
or Qualitative) 31.5 percent using
                modern methods in 1998      by end of project

Date achieved 05/30/1998                    06/30/2005                        06/30/2003
Comments        The target of 35% contraceptive prevalence rate by 2003 has been achieved; the
(incl. %        DHS in 2003 shows a 39% contraceptive prevalence rate. It is estimated that this
achievement)    trend continued with an estimated contraceptive prevalence rate of 43% in 2007

Indicator 4 :   Districts supported to implement their district reproductive health workplans,
                including addressing unment need for family planning services

Value           Contraceptive prevalence    35 percent using
(quantitative   rates, by age per district: modern methods
or Qualitative) 31.5 percent using
                modern methods in 1998      by end of project

Date achieved 05/30/1998                    06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                 iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                              Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP           Disbursements
                                                           (USD millions)
 1    02/28/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               0.00
 2    09/28/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               0.00
 3    11/08/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               0.00
 4    04/30/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               2.00
 5    08/19/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               2.96
 6    02/28/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               6.82
 7    04/30/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               8.51
 8    11/24/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             15.47
 9    05/28/2004       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           20.26
10    12/01/2004       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           22.02
11    12/15/2004       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           22.02
12    05/09/2005       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           24.95
13    08/03/2005       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           25.01
14    12/21/2005       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           25.20
15    06/26/2006       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           27.66
16    02/16/2007       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           27.98
17    06/28/2007       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           28.61
18    09/27/2007       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           32.52



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                      v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Decentralized Reproductive Health and HIV/AIDS Project (DARE) was designed when the
Kenyan economy was facing a severe downturn. From an average of 7% in the 1970s, GDP
growth rate had declined to 2.2% during the 1990s, well below the population growth rate. Weak
economic governance was observed to be a major problem undermining the performance of the
public sector in terms of independence, capacity and accountability. This resulted in an uneven
and slow pace of implementation of major policy reforms and negatively affected government's
credibility with its development partners.

Between the mid-1980s and early 2000s, there was a significant decline/stagnation in the health
status of Kenyans. Decreased expenditures on health, growing poverty, high population growth,
poor access to basic health services and high prevalence of HIV are among some of the reasons
cited for the poor health status. Life expectancy dropped from 59 years in 1991to 47.6 in 1998,
mainly attributed to the growing HIV/AIDS epidemic, whose prevalence went up from 5.8% in
1990 to 13.9% in 1999. According to the demographic and health surveys, infant mortality, child
mortality and maternal mortality all registered increases between 1989 and 1998. Per capita
public expenditure on health declined from US$9.50 in 1980/81 to US$3.50 in 1997/98,
negatively affecting availability of finance for operational costs and for essential drugs. By
1999/00, per capita expenditure on essential drugs for the public sector had dropped to US$ 0.42
from US$ 0.72 in 1995/96.

The overall policy for the sector was set out in the Health Policy Framework (1994 ­ 2010) and
aimed to "promote and improve the health status of Kenyans through deliberate restructuring of
the health sector to make all services more effective, accessible and affordable". The key
strategic imperatives were further articulated in the National Health Sector Strategic Plan (1999-
2004): to strengthen the regulatory function of government; decentralize responsibility for health
service delivery to the Health Management Boards and Teams at the district and provincial levels;
and improve equity, cost-effectiveness and efficiency of resource allocation and utilization in the
sector ­ and thereby reverse the poor health status of Kenyans. Moving ahead with
decentralization was seen as a major imperative for Kenya to reverse the poor health indicators,
for which a detailed Plan of Action (2000 ­ 2002) was developed.

The governance challenges were discussed in depth in the Kenya Country Assistance Strategy ­
1998 (CAS), and among the strategic objectives was to support improvement of economic
governance and public sector performance by facilitating Kenyan-led reforms, with a view to
promoting rural and human development focusing on fiscal decentralization. Although it
recommended a low case financing scenario, the CAS made a proposal for a health SWAp. By
1998, discussions were already going on between the government and development partners for a
health SWAp with the aim to consolidate the sector programs and reduce fragmentation. Prior to
DARE, the World Bank had held consultations with the government on supporting a health sector
reform program and later on the Kenya health SWAp.

At the time of design of the DARE in 1999, the IDA financed Sexually Transmitted Infections
and Fourth Population Projects were closing. In addition, for reasons associated with economic
governance, several of the other development partners were scaling down their support to the
health sector. Most of the new support from development partners was directed at supporting
HIV/AIDS projects. For IDA, the Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project (KHADREP)
was prepared alongside DARE. KHADREP was to support the multisectoral response through
the National AIDS Control Council while DARE inter alia was to support the health sector
response to HIV/AIDS.



                                                  1

The slow progress with the health SWAp and the fact that it was considered ambitious prompted
GoK and the Bank to consider a stand-alone project that led to DARE. DARE was designed to
serve as a bridge towards a health SWAp, assist government move forward with implementing its
reform program especially in the area of decentralization and ensure supply of vital medical
supplies and commodities previously financed through IDA projects which had closed. DARE
was the first health project in Kenya to take on a reform agenda. Its preparation took considerable
time; about 18 months from concept review in August 1999 to board approval in December 2000.
Effectiveness was delayed by 8 months from the original planned date, mainly because it took
longer than planned to address the minimum required strengthening of the weak financial
management systems.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objectives of the Project as stated in the Project Appraisal Document dated November 16,
2000 were to: (i) improve mother and child health through more integrated delivery of child
survival, reproductive health and HIV/AIDS services, increasing the efficiency of the
Government in delivering these services and maintaining the accomplishments of Kenya's
population program; (ii) slow the increase of HIV prevalence rates; and (iii) create an enabling
environment for decentralized managed delivery of child survival, reproductive health and
HIV/AIDS services to and within districts.

Key Performance Indicators

The complete list of project implementation indicators, process indicators and impact indicators
are attached in Annex 2. The PAD selected the following impact indicators:

1. Prevalence rates of HIV infection, by age group and gender.

2. Median age at first sexual intercourse.

3. The percentage of births attended to by qualified health workers.

4. Contraceptive prevalence rates.

5. Tuberculosis treatment success rates.

6. The under-five mortality rate.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The following were identified as beneficiaries for the project:

1. Rural poor (through increased equity under decentralized health care delivery and better
    implementation of user fees exemption mechanisms).

2. Women of reproductive age (through improved reproductive health care).

3. Mothers and children under five years of age.

4. Adolescents, in particular adolescent girls (through targeted education to enable them to make
    safer decisions about their sexual health).




                                                  2

5. All sexually active adolescents and adults (through efforts aimed at slowing the spread of
    HIV/AIDS).

6. STI/HIV/AIDS patients and affected households (through improved care and support).

7. District and local level health personnel (through training to better prepare them for their new
    roles and responsibilities in addressing the health needs of patients, under a decentralized
    health care delivery system).

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project design included three components: (i) Decentralization, (ii) HIV/AIDS, and (iii)
Reproductive Health.

Project Component One: Decentralization (US$7.5 million)

Decentralization was seen as the most important and innovative project component which would
drive the reform agenda and on which other components would depend. It was meant to support
government to implement its decentralization policy by improving mechanisms for fiscal
decentralization and building capacity at provincial and district levels for planning and
management of resources for delivery of health services. Two forms of support were envisaged
under the component: (a) support to all districts and (b) support to eight selected districts for
intensified and expanded decentralization referred to as support for "Phase 1".

Activities to be supported by the project in all districts were to include:

1. Support of the transition to a new resource allocation approach for districts based on rational,
    transparent and objective criteria.

2. Rationalization and simplification of non-wage recurrent budget line items to allow for
    increased discretionary control by districts in the allocation and use of resources.

3. Support for the restructuring of the Medical Supplies Coordination Unit (MSCU)/ Kenya
    Medical Supplies Agency (KEMSA) and establishment of drug revolving funds.

4. Building capacity of District Health Management Boards, Hospital Management Boards and
    Rural Health Facility Committees.

5. Provincial level guidance and support on districts' technical and managerial issues.

The eight selected districts for intensified decentralization were meant to receive all non-wage
recurrent GoK funds allocated through a rationalized budget. In addition, all relevant staff were
to undergo four weeks of training in health management. Other activities to be supported were to
include:

1. District Health Expenditure Reviews.

2. Assignment of responsibility for drug procurement.

3. Improvement of human resource management and strengthening of referral systems.

4. Increased autonomy of district hospitals.

Project financing was to be provided through grants to support approved district workplan
activities promoting the decentralization agenda in a manner relevant to implementation of
HIV/AIDS and reproductive health programs. Another 6 districts received a grant through the
SIDA Rural Integrated Health Services Program, which was designed as parallel financing to the
DARE project. Selected health facilities from poor areas in Nairobi were to be supported as well
as other district facilities.

Project Component Two: HIV/AIDS (US$29.50 million)

Activities under this component focused on the health response to the epidemic, as distinct from


                                                   3

the KHADREP, which supported the multi-sectoral response through the NACC. This decision
was made, based on the track record of support to HIV/AIDS in previous health projects and in an
attempt to shield the project from the higher risks of reduced focus on the health response
associated with the multi-sector approach of the HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project. Project
support was aimed at activities to prevent new infections: behavior change activities, condom use,
blood safety, school education programs, voluntary counseling and testing, and activities to
mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS on affected and infected persons. Condoms, drugs for
opportunistic infections, and HIV test kits and materials were to be procured under this
component. Special emphasis was to be given to vulnerability of women, adolescents and the
poor.

Project Component Three: Reproductive Health (US$10.25 million)

This component was to support reproductive health family planning, safe motherhood, women's
status, child survival and sexually transmitted infections. Districts were to be trained and receive
support to conduct maternal death audits, procurement of essential inputs (family planning
commodities, drugs, and equipment) and IEC. Youth services were identified to receive special
attention. In addition, support for the gradual introduction of Integrated Management for
Childhood Illness (IMCI), including malaria and micronutrient related activities as well as the
procurement of a limited amount of drugs and equipment were to be provided under this
component.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

Over the lifetime of the DARE several events took place that influenced the overall success of
implementation of the project (Table 1 for timeline with main events). The DARE project met
implementation challenges right from inception. First, the GoK failed to provide block grants to
the phase 1 districts as originally agreed. The understanding that the MOH would make
alternative proposals to achieve the same objectives or cancel the project did not materialize.
Therefore, at the mid-term review mission (Sep/Oct. 2003) it was decided to terminate DARE
support to Phase 1 districts. The follow-on implementation support mission of March 2004
cancelled the remaining district grants altogether because their implementation was constrained
by multiple factors, most notably, the limited district capacity to manage and account for the
funds as per the government procedures stipulated under the law. These changes meant that
advancement of the decentralization agenda, the cornerstone of the project, was no longer tenable.
Thus, it was agreed to restructure the project. The proposed restructuring included a revision of
the project objectives: (i) a pilot of new ways to channel funds to lower level facilities to inform
the redesign of decentralization; (ii) support to HIV/AIDS by ensuring availability of necessary
funds and commodities at the front line and (iii) provision of equipment for reproductive health in
selected districts and provision of integrated reproductive health services at the facility level in
the pilot districts. In addition, the closing date of the project was to be extended by 30 months.

The second event that greatly affected the implementation of the project was the forensic audit in
June 2005. The audit confirmed serious shortcomings with the governance and accounting
control environment of the project, which exposed the project to a high risk of fraud. The
seriousness of the findings prompted the World Bank to carry out a Detailed Implementation
Review (DIR) by INT that was initiated in January 2006 and completed in September 2006.

With the cycle of governance investigations intensifying, efforts to restructure the project were
put on hold. Board submission of the proposed amendments of the legal agreement to restructure
the project was postponed in June 2005 by World Bank management pending the outcome of the


                                                    4

forensic audit. Subsequent planned Board submissions were deferred in anticipation of the
outcome of the DIR. This state of affairs put the project in `problem' status, so that only critical
central level procurements could take place. The project closing date was extended four times
while finalizing the procurement of condoms and awaiting a green light from Bank management
to submit the proposed amendments to the Board. After the DIR report came out in September
2006, it was decided to finalize the final procurements and close the project, which took place on
September 30, 2007.

It is important to understand the broad country context under which DARE was implemented. In
2003, a new Government took office and pursued sound macroeconomic policies promoting
growth, and since then the economy has experienced four years of consecutive growth. The
proportion of Kenyans living below the poverty line declined to 45.9% in 2005/6 from 52.3% in
1997. The Government also committed itself to governance strengthening and introduced anti-
corruption legislation like the Government Financial Management Act, the Public Procurement
and Disposal Act, and the Public Audit Office Act. In addition, efforts to improve performance
of public administration and transparent management of the budget process were initiated. While
some progress is being made, Kenya's anti-corruption outcomes are yet to register sustained
improvements and remain an unfinished agenda.


Table 1: DARE timeline of main events

August 26, 1999           Concept review
June 12, 2000             Appraisal
December 12, 2000         Board Approval
August 10, 2001           Effectiveness
March 2003                Supervision mission finds difficulties with
                          block grants to districts and agrees on next
                          steps to remedy issues.
June 26, 2003             Amendment to the DCA to allow for the
                          provision of boreholes; project's
                          environmental classification changed to
                          category B
September 2003            Mid-term review; grants to districts
                          cancelled
March 2004                Cancellation of district grants
June 2005                 Forensic Audit
June 2005                 Board submission for Restructuring
                          proposal postponed
June 30, 2005             Project extension to December 31, 2005
December 31, 2005         Project extension to December 31, 2006
January 2006              Start DIR
September 2006            Report DIR
December 31, 2006         Project extension to June 30, 2007
June 30, 2007             Project extension to September 30, 2007
September 30, 2007        Closure




                                                  5

2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

A quality at entry review was not conducted by QAG for the DARE project.

The overall project development objectives were relevant and responsive to the national
development policy objectives as reflected in the CAS (1998) and the Health Policy Framework
(1994). The leadership in the Ministry of Health at the time exhibited commitment to advance
the stalled national health sector reforms. Progress had been made on the development of the
National Health Sector Strategic Plan (NHSSP) and National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. The
Bank Team worked in close collaboration with other partners (DFID, USAID and SIDA) during
project preparation. The proposed district grants under IDA were built on the district experience
under the previous IDA-funded STI project. In addition, DFID and SIDA provided parallel grant
financing of US$39.49 million and US$8.4 million respectively. Of the 14 districts for
accelerated decentralization, IDA financed eight under DARE, meanwhile Sida financed the
remaining six districts through a separate mechanism. Unlike other donor programs, DARE
(IDA) and Rural Integrated Health Services Program (Sida) chose to use government systems to
channel their funding.

Basing on the lessons learned from the implementation of the STI project, a procurement agent
was contracted during DARE project preparation and by the time of effectiveness, a large part of
the procurement process for the procurement of condoms and other reproductive commodities
had taken place. This resulted in successful execution of project procurement including later
when the project was in problem status.

Detailed technical analyses of selected cost effective interventions took place by the World Bank
team during preparation: blood transfusion, condoms, safe motherhood and IMCI. Additionally,
institutional and financial analyses were carried out to inform project design. Project
implementation arrangements were mainstreamed into government systems, with the Health
Sector Reform Secretariat coordinating overall project implementation.

However, several weaknesses in the quality at entry were observed:

Institutional assessment and lessons learned from previous IDA projects clearly demonstrated a
number of risks, including risks related to governance and financial management, high turnover
of key staff, and the slow pace of reforms in the health sector. While the risks were
acknowledged, the proposed mitigation measures were overly optimistic and unable to alleviate
the risks.

Although considerable effort was made to develop a legal and institutional framework for
decentralized health care service delivery, this was not achieved during project preparation.
Discussions on several key areas of reforms were not concluded during project preparation and
some of these were made into effectiveness conditions. While the proposed fiscal transfers under
DARE may have been the right approach, there was no clear supporting decentralized framework.
To-date, the GoK decentralization agenda is still under consideration within the constitutional
review process.

The implementation arrangements were clear at the center; however, the arrangements at the
provincial level were unclear, and those at the district level depended on Boards and Councils
with only an advisory function and lacking executive functions. Furthermore, districts did not


                                                  6

have the necessary human resource capacity (accountants) to manage and account for
decentralized funds, and implementation instruments ­ Monitoring and Evaluation, Financial and
Implementation Manuals ­ were not available at project inception.

Considering the country context at the time and that DARE was the first major reform effort in
the health sector, the project design was complex and ambitious both in terms of scope of the
proposed reforms and scale of implementation. District grants ought to have been slowly phased-
in countrywide instead of being implemented at once to cover all the districts. The HIV/AIDS
and reproductive health objectives were more than could realistically be achieved by the project.

All the above meant that DARE started with insufficient implementation capacity and a weak
accountability framework, which delayed project effectiveness by 8 months from the date of
Board approval and was to later greatly constrain its implementation.

Overall, the project's quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

The early engagement of a procurement agent during project preparation greatly facilitated the
procurement process and contributed to progress registered during the first year of project
implementation. This overall progress was not sustained; it soon became clear that districts were
plagued by significant obstacles, mainly due to problems of accounting for funds. In addition, the
government failed to provide block grants to Phase 1 districts. Efforts by IDA and government
teams to resolve the implementation bottlenecks did not yield much progress, and by mid-term
review in September 2003, only US$ 2 million had been disbursed out of a total allocation of
US$ 18 million for the district component. In March 2004, the decision was made to cancel the
district grants component and to restructure the project, including revising the PDOs; refocusing
the decentralization component to pilot new ways of channeling funds to lower levels of the
health system; and extending the project closing date by two and half years to December 31, 2007.

The restructuring process did not proceed as envisaged. The report of the forensic audit of the
DARE project in June 2005 found serious shortcomings with the governance and accounting
control environment of the project `exposing the project to a high risk of fraud'. Over US$ 1
million was not properly documented and accounted for. Although the audit report did not make a
clear distinction between lack of capacity and fraud, some indication was given that `evidence of
corruption was likely to be found in the project'. Although the project was extended to give the
government adequate time to address the concerns raised in the report, the forensic audit findings
prompted GoK and IDA in 2006 to initiate a Detailed Implementation Review (DIR) of DARE
along with three other projects in the Kenya portfolio. The report concluded that "credible
information and evidence of widespread corruption was found throughout the project that
implicated all levels of the Ministry of Health", and recommended: (i) the suspension of the
DARE Project, and (ii) the development of an anti-corruption action plan to combat corruption in
the Ministry of Health.

The Ministry of Health has since made effort to address governance issues. In 2006, the GoK
developed a governance and anti-corruption action plan for the health sector. The plan included:
(i) introduction of new procurement responsibilities at headquarters and decentralized levels; (ii)
direct remittance of funds to peripheral health facilities; (iii) strengthening the functioning of the
Audit, Finance and Facilities Management Committees; and (iv) improving the functioning of
Internal Audit. With enhanced commitment, these changes shall strengthen accountability
systems and structures for financial management, auditing, risk management and corruption
prevention..



                                                   7

The way the DIR was carried out also alienated many government officials and seriously affected
the working relationship between IDA and the Ministry of Health. Although the DIR Report was
provided to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, counterpart officials in the
Ministry of Health and some key members of the IDA task team did not obtain access to the
report for confidentiality reasons, which made it very difficult for the conclusions to be addressed
at a technical level. Nevertheless, the DARE was extended to September 30, 2007 to finalize the
outstanding procurement of some major commodities (notably condoms, reproductive health
equipment and construction of boreholes).

The cycle of investigations halted the restructuring process as attention was focused on tracing
funds spent under the decentralization component, with the project placed in problem status.
Although tracing of funds was yet incomplete by the time of ICR mission, around US$ 900,000
(90%) has been accounted for. With decentralization (the main component) cancelled, project
implementation almost came to a standstill. The other two components were greatly affected, as
several of the project activities were suspended. These activities included training of DHMTs,
reforming the drug supply system including KEMSA, district PERs, support to the Nairobi Area,
capacity building for procurement planning, and specific HIV/AIDS and reproductive health
activities both at the central and district levels. Most of the central level project activities that
were continued after the MTR were direct procurement of selected health care commodities.


While there were shortcomings in the way the DIR was conducted, it is important to recognize
that the Kenya DIR coincided with the period when the World Bank was initiating the DIR
process and therefore in the learning mode. In addition, the World Bank was not exactly clear of
what purpose the DIR as an instrument was meant to achieve (diagnostic or forensic). The World
Bank has since made progress as exemplified by the DIR in India. As explained above, the DIR
process in Kenya played a catalysts role in getting the Ministry of Health to initiate actions to
address governance challenges affecting the sector.

Overall, the project implementation is rated unsatisfactory.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design, implementation and utilization are rated modest.

M&E design was modest: Although the PAD had a comprehensive list of indicators to monitor
the performance of the project, little attention was given during the design phase of the project to
the weak M&E capacity in the Ministry of Health. No particular initiative was taken to build
capacity of the Ministry of Health or to support the implementation of the baseline survey. As a
result, the main method of monitoring the progress of project implementation was the DHS 2003,
which reported on the main outcome indicators. The process and output indicators in the
performance framework could not be tracked with the existing data, making it hard to monitor
progress on implementation and establish causal links between the poor DHS outcome data and
the project's implementation.

M&E implementation was negligible: With the exception of the 2003 DHS, no systematic
monitoring of the project indicators took place. While the need to strengthen monitoring and
evaluation was acknowledged, different health programs operated their separate and fragmented
monitoring and evaluation systems. In 2003 a monitoring and evaluation theme group was
introduced to support the integration of the fragmented data flow into one national framework.



                                                    8

The DARE funds were made available to support this process, as a contribution to the preparation
of the SWAP.

M&E utilization was modest: Given the flaws in the M&E design and implementation, the
utilization of data was restricted to the DHS in 2003. These data were recorded in the ISR reports
of the project. The PDO indicators worsened over the lifetime of the project (except HIV/AIDS
prevalence) and the decision to restructure the project was influenced by this. However, an
indicator such as infant mortality is affected by many factors beyond the scope of the project. The
lack of process and output data made it very difficult to monitor the progress of project activities.
As part of the proposed restructuring of the project, the M&E framework would have to be
modified to allow for closer monitoring of implementation progress in the pilot districts.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement: As stated in section 2.1 the contracting of the procurement agent and initiation of
procurement processes at project preparation allowed effective procurement of large ticket
commodities during the early phase of project implementation. This expertise did not benefit
other procurements as explained below. The decision to construct boreholes using project funds
brought many procurement challenges given the health sector was not conversant with their
procurement. The lack of procurement capacity at district level meant that districts could not
procure items using project funds. The effectiveness of a procurement agent is reliant on
oversight from the parent organization. Later large ticket procurement delayed as the Ministry of
Health did not have the capacity to provide the needed oversight. To allow completion of several
procurements, third and fourth extensions of the project took place. DARE was meant to support
execution of the business plan of the Kenya Medical Supply Agency (KEMSA); however, very
little support was provided to support implementation of this plan. It is anticipated that the new
procurement act and on-going procurement reforms shall assist to build national procurement
capacity.

Financial Management: During the design phase of the project, there was extensive attention to
the need to strengthen the financial management system in the Ministry of Health and the district
treasuries. A financial management/ identification mission took place during preparation and a
Financial Management Action Plan was developed. The appraisal of the project was delayed due
to delays in the implementation of the agreed plan. The cancellation of the decentralization
component was largely due to problems in accounting for funds. Although risks in financial
management were identified during project preparation, the forensic audit stated that during
implementation not enough was done to monitor this risk actively and implement preventive
measures, leading to the cancellation of the decentralization component.

Environmental safeguards: The project was rated as environmental category C. The Project
appraisal document does describe the importance of proper treatment and disposal of medical and
hazardous waste. A comprehensive review of the medical supply system and the problem of
medical waste treatment and disposal was envisaged during project preparation. An amendment
to the project to include the construction of 52 boreholes was made in 2003, which upgraded the
environmental classification from category C to category B. As part of the restructuring process,
an Environmental Impact Assessment took place resulting in the preparation of an Environmental
Management Plan. A National Health Care Waste Management Plan has been prepared and
disclosed by the borrower

Compliance with legal covenants: as part of the broader reform agenda of the project, the
DARE project included conditionality on several key reforms. The most prominent one was the



                                                  9

agreement that the MOH would reduce the share of its budget allocated to Kenyatta National
Hospital from 15% to 10% over the course of the project. However, the MOH was continuously
out of compliance with this covenant from 2003. The restructuring proposed to address this by
focusing on increased allocations to primary care.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The DARE project was designed as a bridge operation towards a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP)
in the Kenya health sector. Discussions on the SWAP have been ongoing for several years. The
challenges in the implementation of the DARE project, especially in terms of the decentralization
component, exposed the weaknesses of the current system that will be addressed through the
design of the forthcoming SWAP.

In the 2004 World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Kenya, there is provision for a credit of
$80 million to support the health SWAP. Areas of assistance include funding of a new system of
financing local level health facilities and community-based services, procurement and supply of
commodities (especially for reproductive health) and capacity building. The project is currently
in the final stages of preparation.

Progress has been possible, as the Ministry of Health has demonstrated commitment to reform
with the development, adoption and implementation of various strategic policies and plans, which
include the second National Health Sector Strategic Plan (NHSSP II), a Joint Program of Work
and Funding (JPWF) and annual operational plans (AOPs). Since 2005, the Government and
Development Partners have been working on developing one common sector strategy led by the
Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health and stakeholders are presently working intensively to
put in place the building blocks for the SWAp. Detailed technical, institutional and fiduciary
reviews have been conducted with coordinated technical assistance being provided by many
agencies. A Joint Design Mission (JDM) for the SWAp was carried out in 2007 by several
development partners to plan future support to the health sector.


3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The relevance of the project objectives is substantial. The PDOs remain relevant today.
HIV/AIDS remains a major development challenge. Kenya's reproductive and child health
outcomes continue to be poor and implementation of decentralization is considered as one of the
major reform efforts needed to improve service delivery. The objectives are in line with the
Government of Kenya's Health Policy Framework ((1994 ­ 2010), the World Bank 1998 CAS
objectives and the 2nd National Health Sector Strategic Plan.

The relevance of the project design is poor. Implementation of the decentralization component
failed because of an over-ambitious design, irregularities in the financial management of the
project and in the way the Bank and GoK handled the project during the audit/DIR. SWAp
discussions have now advanced much further and many more partners (e.g. Global Fund) have
come on board who were originally not there during DARE preparation. Any new World Bank
operation will need to factor these issues in its design.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The Project Development Objectives of the project are to: (i) improve mother and child health
through more integrated delivery of child survival, reproductive health and HIV/AIDS services,


                                                  10

increasing the efficiency of the government in delivering these services and maintaining the
accomplishments of Kenya's population program, (ii) slow the increase of HIV prevalence rates,
and (iii) create an enabling environment for decentralized managed delivery of child survival,
reproductive health and HIV/AIDS services to and within districts.

The achievement of the project objectives (efficiency) is unsatisfactory. The rationale for this is
that two of the three project development objectives have not been achieved and although
reduction in HIV/AIDS prevalence took place during the life time of the project, the contribution
of the project towards this outcome is probably very modest and attribution is difficult to measure
given the poor M&E design and implementation. Many of the key project outcome indicators as
shown in the table below stagnated or deteriorated over the lifespan of the project. . In the recent
past, mainly because of increased funding from Global Health Initiatives, improvements have
occurred in the EPI, HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis programs. While these improvements
are modest and unlikely to put Kenya on track to achieve most of the health related MDGs, they
represent a break with the past when health indicators stagnated. It is essential to realize that
many of these indicators (IMR, MMR, HIV prevalence) are higher level indicators and are
directly attributable to the project.

Table of Major Project Outcome Indicators

Key Indicators                                                         1998*      2003*      2005**
HIV prevalence rates by age group and gender                           13.9%      6.7%      5.1%
                                                                                            (2006)
Median age at first sexual intercourse women 20-49 years               16.7       17.8      N/A
Percentage of births attended to by qualified health workers           56%        40.8%     42%
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                                          31.5%      39%       43%
Fully immunized children                                               65%        51.5%     80%
Tuberculosis treatment success rates                                   78%        80%       83%
Under-five mortality                                                   112        115       120***
Infant mortality rate                                                  74         77         79***
Maternal mortality ratio                                               590        414        378
* DHS data
** Data are estimations
*** UNICEF 2005

1. Project Component One: Decentralization (US$7.5 million)

Decentralization was seen as the most important and innovative project component which would
drive the reform agenda and on to which other components were anchored. A substantial amount
of funds (US$10 million) for the other two components was to be channeled through the district
grants. The main activities that were to be supported under this component are in section 1.5.
The grants were designed to give districts more autonomy to plan, budget and execute district
health workplans. As explained in section 1.7, the failure of the district grants undermined the
fulfillment of this component's objective. Most of the activities under the two sub components:
pilot districts and district grants were not implemented.

Outputs: The main outputs under this component are (i) percentage of Credit Proceeds disbursed
to finance district work plans, (ii) number of districts implementing integrated district workplans,
(iii) number of district workplans with substantive inputs from DHMB, rural HFCs and
stakeholder forum and (iv) proportion of project funds channeled through or used to contract out
service delivery to NGOs/CBOs. A total of US$2 million was disbursed to districts for the



                                                  11

implementation of the district workplans. No systematic monitoring of project indicators took
place. It is therefore difficult to assess true progress made. However, given the component was
cancelled, it is most likely very little measurable progress was made in the achievement of the
relevant project indicators. Even the training of district management staff, which should have
taken place in 2001 was found at mid term review to have been interrupted by over one year. In
the SIDA financed districts, the establishment of a demand driven commodity management
system and investments in capacity building is reported to have led to increased utilization of
services through improved availability of essential medicines and medical supplies. However, as
in the case of DARE, the Sida financed program was equally plagued by disbursement and
accountability challenges, which eventually forced Sida also to withdraw their district support
prematurely.

The lessons from DARE subsequently influenced decisions on new programs: the new Health
Facility Fund and Global Fund for AIDS Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM) and the
management of the budget process in the Ministry of Health. For the GFATM, government
decided to recruit District Accountants to manage the grants. Districts started to prepare Annual
Operational Plans in 2004/5; and at the moment, all districts have integrated workplans. The
planning tools currently being used were developed through support by the DARE and the SIDA
financed RIHS program. Unfortunately, the plans are still not yet linked to the budget process.
The district planning formats and criteria for budget allocation now being used by the Ministry of
Health were introduced with support from DARE.

Outcomes: the PAD does not specify the outcome indicators under this component. An
improvement in the implementation of district workplans is expected to result in better planning
and delivery of health services, resulting in improved intermediate outcome indicators such as
antenatal coverage rates, vaccination coverage, percentage of births attended by qualified health
workers and improved outcome indicators such as under-five mortality.

In summary, this component is rated as unsatisfactory.

2. Project Component Two: HIV/AIDS (US$29.5 million)

At mid term review, the DARE project was the single largest source of funds for the HIV/AIDS
medical response. The focus of the component was on the medical aspects of the Government's
response to the epidemic: behavior change activities, provision of condoms, blood safety, school
education programs, voluntary counseling and testing, and activities to mitigate the impact of
HIV/AIDS on affected and infected persons.

Outputs: The outputs under this component comprised: (a) number of stock outs of condoms and
HIV tests, (b) condom use, and (c) percentage of screened blood units. The mid term review
noted that through the project the government was able to ensure safe blood supply for a three-
year period, expand voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) coverage to over 200 sites in 44
districts and provide drugs for sexually transmitted infections. The project contributed greatly to
condom availability. Three hundred million condoms were procured, enough supply to last
nationally for four years, increasing average monthly condom distribution from five million to ten
million. An estimated US$24.9 million was disbursed under this component with a large portion
going for procurement of HIV rapid test kits, anti TB drugs, hepatitis C test kits, medical gloves
and syringes.

Outcomes: The main indicator of HIV/AIDS prevalence was achieved, although it is now widely
accepted that prevalence is not a good indicator to measure progress in the fight against


                                                    12

HIV/AIDS, as it measures a cumulative picture of the disease over time. It is also affected by
mortality rates.1 HIV prevalence dropped significantly during the project period from 13.9% in
1998 to 6.7% in 2003, 6.1% in 2004, 5.9% in 2005 and 5.1% in 2006. The target of the project
was a national prevalence of 15% by the end of the project. The fall in HIV prevalence in Kenya
is quite dramatic and can be attributed to the increased access of antiretroviral drugs and
behavioral changes among young people and adults, such as sexual abstinence, delaying sexual
activity and using condoms.

Two indicators originally specified in the PAD demonstrate progress in the achievement of
prevention objectives. The median age of first sexual intercourse for women 20-49 years
increased from 16.7 years in 1998 to 17.8 years in 2003 and condom use by age, marital status
and type of partner increased from 42.5% with non-regular partner (men) to 46.5% and 15.1%
with non-regular partner (women) to 23.9% in 2003, all of which were met. A better before-and-
after analysis of the project would have been helpful in answering the question to what extent this
can be attributed to the project. The fact that Kenya did not have a shortage of condoms during
this period probably contributed to the increased use of condoms.

This component is rated as moderately satisfactory

3. Project Component Three: Reproductive health (US$10.25 million)

This component was meant to tackle issues related to family planning, safe motherhood, child
survival and sexually transmitted infections by supporting integrated district `workplans for
training, maternal death audits, procurement of family planning commodities and equipment.
Furthermore, this component was meant to support financing of integrated HIV/AIDS/TB and
reproductive health, integrated management of childhood illnesses (IMCI) and malaria as part of
the overall decentralization focus of the project district workplans.

Outputs: The output indicators under the component comprised: (a) percentage of health workers
trained in IMCI, (b) percentage of facilities equipped to provide obstetric and family planning
services, (c) immunization coverage, (d) antenatal care coverage and percentage of deliveries in
health facilities. For the limited period of implementation, the project built capacity of the
MOH's Division of Child Health, supported training of health workers in IMCI, and procurement
of vaccines including equipment for reproductive and child health: vacuum extraction sets,
incubators, resuscitation sets and sterilizers. Overall, 55 out of 77 districts were reached through
training, with 30% of the districts training over 60% of health workers in IMCI. The project also
supported the provision of 27 out of the original plan of 52 boreholes. US$7.5 million was
disbursed under this component. As explained in section 2.2, a number of activities under this
component were not implemented; some were also suspended during implementation. The
problem of fragmented reproductive health activities that the project was meant to tackle still
persists in Kenya.

Outcomes: The 2003 KDHS showed that a number of critical reproductive health and child
health indicators had worsened since 1998. The infant mortality rate increased from 73.7 in 1998
to 77 per 1000 life births in 2003 (DHS 2003) and 79 in 2005 (UNICEF). Other intermediate
outcome indicators in the PAD also worsened; the percentage of births attended to by qualified



1 ICR Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project KADREP) April 13, 2007




                                                  13

health workers decreased from 56% in 1998 to 40.8% in 2003 (DHS) and 42% in 2005 (AOP 2)2,
vaccination coverage (DPT3) reduced from 76.3% in 1998 to 72 % in 2003 and total fertility rate
increased slightly from 4.7 in 1998 to 4.9 in 2003. According the DHS, the percentage of fully
immunized children reduced from 65% in 1998 to 51.5% in 2003. Only the contraceptive
prevalence rates improved from 31.5% in 1998 to 39% in 2003 and 43% in 2005 (AOP2). By
MTR, it was evident the objective of this component would no longer be achievable, and in part
was the justification to restructure the project.

Overall, the project was unable to reach its reproductive health development objectives and this
component is rated as unsatisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

The efficiency of the project was modest. Although there is evidence that fiscal decentralization
can result in more cost-effective use of public resources, the result in practice depends heavily on
the district management and planning capacity and the leadership role of the Ministry of Health.
The weak M&E framework and the short life-span of the decentralization component make it
impossible to evaluate its efficiency. Never-the-less, considering the effort and time taken to
prepare and resolve implementation bottlenecks, the fact that the project ended in a problem
status that could not be resolved compromised its efficiency.

The economic analysis of the project shows that the cost-effectiveness of HIV/AIDS prevention
through condom use and blood safety is associated with respectively a Net Present Value of
US$911 million and US$60 million and an IRR of 42% and 30.7%. The project could have been
justified on the value of preventive health interventions for the physical development and
resulting productivity rather than computing Net Present Value. Human Development investment
lending takes a long time to yield results, especially with under-five children as part of the target
group. Under such circumstances, the Net Present Value may not be very meaningful.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Although the relevance of the project objectives was substantial, based on the moderately
unsatisfactory design, unsatisfactory efficacy and modest efficiency the overall outcome rating is
unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Gender aspects: the design of the project took into account the high seroprevalence of
HIV/AIDS among women in Kenya and planned to address this through the targeting of resources
through institutions that `are close to them'. The targeting of women would be monitored with
disaggregated performance indicators. There is no evidence that these measures were
implemented.

Social development: during the design of the DARE project significant consultations took place
with various stakeholders through workshops and seminars. The project was designed to maintain




2Annual Operational Plan 2, Performance Report, August 2007



                                                 14

a participatory approach during implementation and for monitoring and evaluation purposes. This
did not take place.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
During the design phase, an assessment took place of the institutions and organizations involved
in the implementation of the project. The assessment provided recommendations on ways to
improve an effective interface between civil society and the public health system. Furthermore, it
highlighted the weaknesses in the Health Sector Reform Secretariat (HSRS), which resulted in the
drafting of a strategy for strengthening the capacity of the HSRS by the Ministry of Health. The
assessment also brought out the need to strengthen the NASCOP's capacity to govern the MOH-
specific response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. From the ICR interviews, it was clear that the main
contribution of the DARE project was that it made the bottlenecks within the system more
apparent and highlighted the importance of addressing these bottlenecks if progress was to be
made on key reforms.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A


4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Overall risk to development outcome is rated high.

Improvements in HIV/AIDS, reproductive health and child health outcomes remain uneven, with
HIV/AIDS registering the most progress and child health the least. Large inflows of external
funding are envisaged in the short to intermediate term to sustain the HIV/AIDS activities.
However, additional funding and effort will be required to scale up Reproductive Health and
Child Health interventions for Kenya to meet its targets. Although in financial year 06/07 GoK
significantly increased funding (KSH 0.5 BN) for reproductive health activities in the districts,
this is still inadequate and will need to be further increased.

The problems brought about by vertical and fragmented funding especially for HIV/AIDS and to
a large extent reproductive health persist, increasing transaction costs to the government. DARE
and the on-going SWAp discussions were meant to tackle this issue; progress so far has been
slow. Sustaining antiretroviral treatment - in terms of maintaining those already on treatment
(150,000 patients), expanding ART to all eligible patients and managing the emergence of HIV
strains resistant to first line treatment - will pose a serious challenge for the government in the
future.

Overall, the implementation pace of health sector reform has been slow in Kenya. This is partly
attributed to insufficient leadership and ownership within the Ministry of Health; limited
government-wide buy-in; absence of a strong legal and institutional framework; and low capacity
of relevant implementing institutions. Success in the future will depend on how these factors are
addressed.

Challenges of economic governance persist and continue to undermine effective service delivery
and Kenya's credibility particularly with its development partners. Despite KEMSA's increased
capacity and the key role played by the Procurement Agent, procurement is still characterized by
persistent delays. The recruitment of accountants to the districts using Global Fund resources,
formalization of fiscal transfers to districts together with the new Procurement Act (January
2007) will hopefully mitigate some of these risks.



                                                    15

5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

As further detailed in section 2.1 on quality of entry, the project concept and Project
Development Objectives were relevant. At the time of preparation, the Bank team considered a
health SWAP as an alternative to the project, but decided for good reasons that the health sector
in Kenya was not ready for a SWAP. The team also made the right judgment in encouraging the
contracting of a procurement agent during the design phase, which allowed an effective and
timely implementation of the procurement plan.

In hindsight, given the country context, lessons from earlier IDA funded projects and the findings
of the institutional analysis, the Bank Team could have done more to mitigate risks identified and
to provide for capacity building of districts during appraisal. The ICR mission found the Bank
team during project preparation was overly optimistic in their assessment of the proposed
mitigation efforts, especially in relation to district capacity, financial management and the history
of the slow implementation pace of reforms in the health sector in Kenya. The team also
inappropriately relied on using effectiveness conditions and legal covenants to enforce some of
the reforms; for example, the use of legal covenants to control budgetary allocations to Kenyatta
National Hospital.

The Bank team could also have done more to ensure that the scope and scale of project
implementation was consistent with existing capacity. The monitoring and evaluation system as
already explained in section 2.1 could have been better defined.

The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

The Bank Team prior to the Mid Term Review worked diligently to resolve implementation
bottlenecks, especially those related to the district grants. Regular supervision was conducted to
assess status of project implementation as well as compliance with IDA fiduciary and safeguard
policies. When implementation delays became protracted and were found to be leading to non-
achievement of the PDOs, the team took a proactive decision to cancel the district grants and
restructure the project. Even when the project went into problem status, the Bank team,
especially the country office based staff, continued to successfully engage in policy dialogue with
GoK on the SWAp in a very challenging environment. The team also worked with government
to continue the procurement of vital commodities.

None-the-less, considering delayed project effectiveness, delayed disbursement, and significant
implementation bottlenecks that plagued the project right from inception, consecutive satisfactory
IP rating in the ISR during the first three years of the project is questionable and puts to doubt the
realism of the rating.

The coincidence in the timing of cancellation of the district grants and the audit investigations put
the project in a highly unusual circumstance. It was right for the Bank and the GoK to institute a
DIR following the outcome of the forensic audit. However, the handling of the DIR without
involving the task team and the failure to quickly conclude the DIR and take firm decisive actions


                                                   16

constrained project implementation and undermined the relationship with the client. The Volcker
report3 that used Kenya and the DIR as a case study concluded, "the DIR can be a useful
technique in advancing anticorruption efforts, but the effectiveness depends on support and
cooperation from operations staff and the country concerned". The DIR halted the restructuring
process putting the project in a very uncertain situation. Given sensitivities and reputational risks
associated with such audits, a more proactive approach to address uncertainty around the project
would have been beneficial.

A major weakness of supervision was the little progress made to obtain baseline data for project
indicators as agreed at preparation and to systematically track progress, making it difficult to truly
assess the project contribution even with its limited duration of implementation. The only
exception was data from the Demographic and Health Survey of 2003.

Overall, while the Task Team put a lot of effort and time (three years) after the MTR to resolve
implementation bottlenecks and to restructure the project, little progress was made in resolving
the problems.

The Bank's performance in ensuring quality of supervision is rated unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Overall Bank Performance is rated unsatisfactory, quality of entry was rated unsatisfactory
mainly because of the design flaws highlighted in the preceding section above and the supervision
was rated unsatisfactory due to the failure to decisively manage the proposed restructuring, the
audit investigations and address uncertainty surrounding the project.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

DARE was prepared at a difficult period for Kenya, in particular with the governance
environment. It took a lot of time and effort of government officials from the Ministry of Health,
Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Public Service to overcome a number of obstacles during its
preparation and implementation, especially given this was the first time Kenya was undertaking a
major reform effort in the health sector. The Health Policy Framework provided the basis for the
reforms, supported by the Mombasa Decentralization Roadmap and Treasury Circular of 2000 in
the absence an overall national decentralization framework.

Notwithstanding the absence of a strong decentralization framework, government could have
done more to improve the project implementation environment by:

· Strengthening the accountability framework by improving the governance and accounting
    control environment of the project which exposed the project to a high risk of fraud;




3Independent Panel Review of the World Bank Group Department of Institutional Integrity, Paul A. Volcker,
September 13, 2007.




                                                    17

· Preparing the implementation manuals on time and building capacity of the districts to
    manage and account for the funds. The Chart of Accounts and Financial Management
    Manual were completed much later than planned after project effectiveness;
· Complying with the critical agreements and legal covenants. The decision to discontinue
    support for Phase 1 districts arose out of the failure by government to provide block grants as
    originally agreed.

While government had in place a Project Steering Committee, an Inter-Agency Coordination
Committee and had mainstreamed project implementation within the government systems,
coordination of the various programs and initiatives at the center did not improve as planned and
support to the districts from the center remained weak. These problems were further
compounded by the high turnover of key Ministry of Health staff. At the district level, improved
district planning, through AOPs did not translate into improved budget forecasting and
management, in part due to inadequate coordination of planning and reform functions at the
central Ministry of Health.

When the project went into problem status, government commitment reduced further, although it
continued to meet its counterpart funding obligations.

The government's performance is rated unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Health Sector Reform Secretariat (HSRS) coordinated overall project execution and ensured
appropriate linkages with the government reform agenda and the other departments since project
implementation was to be mainstreamed into government operations. Moderately strong linkages
were achieved with the implementing divisions: National AIDS Control Program (NASCOP),
Reproductive Health Division and Child Health Division; however, linkages with the Finance and
Planning Departments were not as strong as desired. Performance of the Health Sector Reform
Secretariat is rated as unsatisfactory.

Implementing Divisions: NASCOP, Reproductive Health Division and Child Health Division
were the main implementing entities at the central level. The divisions executed their activities
according to the approved plans. Their activities were fragmented and determined by the various
vertical projects funding available. Performance of central level implementers is rated as
unsatisfactory.

The District was meant to be the core implementing entity given decentralization. As discussed
above, the performance of districts was constrained by weak capacity and inadequate legal and
institutional framework. However, there is anecdotal evidence, including from the ICR mission
fieldtrip, that when the money got through, the district made innovative and adequate use of it.
District performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Considering (a) and (b), the overall Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory.

6. LESSONS LEARNED

Project design: In a challenging political environment, sufficient attention needs to be given
during project design to find the right balance between innovation for impact and preconditions



                                                 18

for reform. Preferably, for complex and innovative reforms like those involving decentralization
and fiscal transfers, it is important to establish legal, policy and institutional frameworks
including implementation arrangements at all levels and/or to plan to develop such capacity to
carry out the assigned responsibilities effectively. It may be necessary that some progress take
place on key aspects of reform during project design and before project effectiveness to ensure
sufficient political commitment and momentum from the government.

Project implementation: Management tools, such as the ISR, can be used by task team to reflect
what is happening on the ground in terms of implementation progress and to get management
attention to address issues that are beyond the control of the Task team. (ii) Risk assessment is not
only important during the design of a project but should be revisited during project
implementation to monitor progress on the implementation of mitigation measures and to manage
risks based on the evolving country situation.

Decentralization: Decentralization to the district level has potential to improve service delivery,
but it needs to be anchored within a strong institutional framework accompanied by capacity
building (including on fiduciary issues) to improve the autonomy of districts and enable them to
plan, budget and better manage their programs. At the same time, sufficient attention should be
given to national level policy dialogue in order to ensure continuous support and commitment to
the decentralization agenda.

Procurement: In an environment with procurement and governance issues, the contracting of a
good procurement agent in the interim can make a significant contribution to the timely and
reliable procurement of commodities. However, a parallel procurement system is not sustainable
in the long run. Concurrent efforts must be made to improve government capacity to regulate,
plan and execute procurements for the health sector in a transparent manner.

Management of special project audits: The DIR can be a useful technique in advancing
anticorruption efforts, but its effectiveness depends on support and cooperation from operations
staff and the country concerned4. Because of the sensitive information and associated
reputational risks, special audit investigations need to be carefully managed to ensure continued
dialogue with the country client government and to reduce any risks that may further undermine
project implementation. If properly handled, the findings can be used to address project specific
bottlenecks and to promote reforms in the affected sectors or areas. A carefully developed plan
needs to be in place to manage sensitive audit results. An indefinite freeze on the project during
the implementation of the DIR is counterproductive and impedes the possibilities to maintain
open communication with the counterpart and move forward on essential project components.
The DIR in the India Health portfolio was successful in handling the corruption issues without
disengaging and can provide an example of how similar situations as in the Kenya DARE project
can be handled more effectively.

Government ownership is central to the success of reforms: The attempt to use legal covenants
in a project to push reform shows that there needs to be some caution with this approach. A
project can only facilitate reforms where there is sufficient ownership from the government.




4Independent Panel Review of the World Bank Group Department of Institutional Integrity, Paul A. Volcker,
September 13, 2007.




                                                    19

Monitoring and Evaluation: Projects need good monitoring and evaluation systems with clear
and measurable indicators, which are clearly defined during design of the project and
institutionalized to be able to systematically monitor project implementation over time. Given the
long history of similar lessons from previous operations in health, there is a clear need for simple,
well-designed monitoring frameworks that are owned by the government and are implementable.


   7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

Two co-financing partners: DFID and Sida provided comments to the ICR report. Both partners
agree to the fact that DARE was among the first few projects to address health sector reform in
Kenya. The comments acknowledge the challenges with implementation of the decentralization
component and confirm the observations in the report. Given the Kenya context, DFID believes
that the rating of unsatisfactory is unwarranted.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                 20

                         ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                 Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                     Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

DECENTRALIZATION                          7.5                2.0            26.7%
HIV/AIDS                                29.5               24.9             84.4%
REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH                     10.25                7.5            73.1%
Unallocated                               2.75               0               0%



            Total Baseline Cost         50                  34.4            68.8%

Physical Contingencies                    0                  0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                       0                  0.00            0.00
              Total Project Costs       50                  34.4
Project Preparation Fund                  0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required          50                  34.4




(b) Financing

                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds             Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                    Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Borrower                                         19.38        0.00         .00
UK: British Department for
International Development (DFID)                 39.49        0.00         .00

International Development
Association (IDA)                                50.00        34.40        68.8%

SWEDEN: Swedish Intl. Dev.
Cooperation Agency (SIDA)                        8.40         0.00         .00




                                            21

             ANNEX 2. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

A.Project Implementation Indicators5:
Indicator/ Matrix                                          Projected in last PSR  Actual/ latest estimate
                                                           End of project

1.   The percentage of the proceeds of the Credit           1. 1.0%               1. 1.0%
     disbursed to finance Eligible Work Plans,
     compared to the allocations per District.

2.   The number of District Eligible Work Plans with        2. All                2. All districts have workplans
     substantive input from District Health Management                            (2006)
     Teams, Rural Health Facility Committees Teams
     and stakeholder forums.

3.   The number of stock-outs of condoms and HIV            3. None               3.No stock-outs from 2001-2004
     tests for blood safety, during the Project period.

4.   The percentage of health facilities with trained staff 4. 80%                4. 80%
     in IMCI in the three initial Districts.

5.   The percentage of health facilities that are           5.N/A                 5. N/A
     equipped to provide obstetric and family planning
     services.


B. Process Indicators:

Indicator/ Matrix                                          Projected in last PSR  Actual/ latest estimate

1.   The percentage of District audits which are            1. N/A                1. N/A
     qualified.

2.   The proportion of patients satisfied with the kind of
     health services provided, especially related to        2. N/A                2. 87.3%
     HIV/AIDS and reproductive health.

3.   The percentage of user charges that is retained at     3. N/A                3. 80%
     the level of selected Nairobi area health facilities.

4.   The percentage of all blood units that have been
     screened for HIV before transfusion.                   4. N/A                4. 95%

5.   Condom use by age, marital status, and type of         5. N/A                5. 46.5% men with non-regular
     partner (regular or other).                                                  partner/ 23.9% women with non-
                                                            6. N/A                regular partner
6.   Vaccination coverage statistics, per District.
                                                            7. N/A                6. 51.5% (DHS 2003)
7.   Antenatal coverage statistics, per District.
                                                                                  7. 88% (N/A by district)
8.   The percentage of deliveries that take place in a
     health facility.                                       8. N/A                8. .39.4%




C. Impact Indicators

Indicator/ Matrix                                          Projected in last PSR  Actual/ latest estimate

1. Prevalence rates of HIV infection, by age group and      1. 15%                1. 5.1% (2006)
gender.
                                                            2. N/A                2. 17.8 (DHS 2003)
2. Median age at first sexual intercourse.




5As specified in the Development Credit Agreement




                                                                 22

3.The percentage of births attended to by qualified health 3. 65%    3. 40.8% (DHS 2003)/ 42% (AOP
workers.                                                             2005)
                                                           4. 35%
4. Contraceptive prevalence rates.                                   4. 39% (DHS 2003)/ (43% estimate
                                                           5. N/A    2005)
5.   Tuberculosis treatment success rates.
                                                                     5. 80% (DHS 2003) 83% (estimate
6.   The under-five mortality rate.
                                                           6. 68     2005)

                                                                     6. 79 (UNICEF 2005)




                                                               23

                  ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

Not applicable.




                                    24

    ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

(a) Task Team members


           Names                     Title             Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Albert Voetberg        Lead Health Specialist         AFTH1 Mission Leader
Andrew Follmer         Asst to Managing Director      AFTH1 Private Sector and PIP
Charles Magnus                                        AFTQK
Wacuka Ikua            Sr. Operations Officer         AFMKE Budget and Financing
Dahir Warsame          Sr. Procurement Specialist     AFMKE Procurement planning

John Ogallo            Sr. Financial Management
                       Specialist                     AFMKE Financial Management

David Robalino         Senior Economist               AFTH1 Economic Assessment
Sheila Dutta           Sr. Health Specialist          HDNHE HIV/AIDS

Nyambura Githagui      Sr. Social Development
                       Specialist                     AFMKE


Supervision/ICR
Surendra K. Agarwal    Manager                        AFMJB
Sheila Dutta           Sr. Health Specialist          AFTH1  Health
Andrew C. Follmer      Asst. to the Managing Director  MDW   Operations
Ramesh Govindaraj      Sr. Health Specialist          AFTH3  Pharmaceuticals
Wachuka W. Ikua        Sr. Operations Officer         AFTH1  Operations Support
Michael Mills          Lead Economist                 AFTH1  Mission Leader
Margaret Olale         Disbursement Assistant                Disbursements

John Nyaga             Sr. Financial Management
                       Specialist                            Finacial Management

Son Nam Nguyen         Sr. Health Specialist          AFTH1  Health
Monica Gathoni Okwirry Program Assistant              AFCE2  ACS
Dahir Elmi Warsame     Sr. Procurement Specialist     AFTPC  Procurement

Moses Sabuni Wasike    Sr. Financial Management              Financial
                       Specialist                     OPCFM  management




                                          25

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)


Lending

  FY99                                                                      8.06
  FY00                                             93                     208.89
  FY01                                             23                      47.19
  FY02                                                                      0.00
  FY03                                                                      0.00
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
                         Total                    116                     264.14

Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                                                      0.00
  FY01                                             18                      26.55
  FY02                                             35                      91.92
  FY03                                             39                      99.01
  FY04                                             41                     103.01
  FY05                                             54                     178.05
  FY06                                             28                     106.97
  FY07                                             22                      69.98

                        Total:                    237                     675.49




                                    26

       ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

N/A




                        27

       ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS

N/A




                             28

     ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

No comments were received from government.




                                          29

      ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS

Comments from SIDA on the DARE project:

The DARE project was designed, as indeed Sida's RIHS program, to support the decentralization
process. From the implementation these programs, important gains have been recorded in the
Kenyan health sector: the following are the major achievements:
    · There were important gains in improving service delivery at district level;
    · The seeds of improving systems and capacities for sector wide planning were initiated by
         these two programs which later on scaled up to nationwide. The planning tools that are
         currently in use were developed for these two programs;
    · A quarterly review meeting between the centre and the districts were initiated and this
         has helped to sensitize the managers of health on the role of review for removing
         implementation bottlenecks;
    · There were gains in capacity building in the pilot districts as compared to other districts;
         and
    · The district level efforts have generate evidences and feed into the strategies of NHSSP
         II. These include in the strategies of the major health systems including health planning,
         monition and evaluation, commodity management, financial management, maintenance.

There were also differences between the two decentralization support programs. RIHS did
support the establishment of a demand driven commodity management system which resulted in
increasing utilization of services through improved availability of essential medicines and
medical supplies. It has also invested a lot in capacity building efforts both at district land central
levels. DARE on the other hand was quite weak in these areas. An effort was initiated to pilot
direct grants for procurement of commodities in two districts through DARE support and RIHS
was requested by the Bank to finance the capacity building measures but apparently the initiative
did not materialised as intended for obvious reasons.

Overall decentralisation process in the health sector had not progressed as designed in the two
program documents. From experience of successful countries, decentralisation works better,
among other factors, when there is a political commitment at higher level for real devolution or
delegation, when local authorities have predictable and stable resources (from government,
donors, own source) to fulfil the tasks assigned to them and given the power to decide on the use
of these resources. This required in the Kenyan context a revision of legal framework that gives
more mandate to the MOH than it is currently having. The legal framework under which MOH
operates has not given the Ministry/Minister, as did the education act to the Ministry of Education,
authority on areas of providing direct financial grants and hiring and firing of staff. Both DARE
and RIHS assumed in their formulation that putting a legal framework in place is not a politically
difficult exercise and planned to realise these objective during their program periods. While
implementation process has hindered the realization of such a legal framework, we need to
acknowledge that the design of these two programs might have oversimplified the requirements
for putting in place a decentralized structure in Kenya. More often than not, technical
decentralization, as proposed by the two programs has not been successful even in other countries
where there is no political will to devolve power to lower levels.

The lack of progress in decentralisation and hence for weak district performance have been
exacerbated by lack of or in adequate support by the development and implementing partners.
Resources were not captured at the district level in their entirety mainly because many
development partners and other actors are not willing/able to declare their contribution upfront,



                                                  30

be it at district or central levels. The pilot districts were forced to develop one plan for Sida and
DARE and other vertical plans for other stakeholders which undermined their capacity and
increased their transaction cost associated with planning and reporting.

What makes DARE and RIHS programs' support different from others is their principle to work
within the government system (be it financial, procurement or systems development including
M&E) and this has been their virtue but at the same time their downside. These were the only
development partner providing district grants through the government system in the health sector.
The centralised financial management system and its complicated procedures limited the ability
of the system to disburse resources to the districts and accounting of expenditures. This failure
eventually forced first DARE and later on Sida to withdraw their district support. While there are
compelling evidences to take these measures, it should be noted that this has frustrated
implementing districts as they have very little control over resolving implementation constraints
and created service delivery gaps in the supported districts.

DFID comments on the DARE project:

Overall I agree with the assessment that DARE was the first major programme to try and address
health sector reform issues and that the complexity and ambitious objectives has limited its
achievements. I therefore feel that perhaps the overall scoring of unsatisfactory is quite harsh
considering the particularly difficult environment at that time. I will highlight several factors that
I feel hindered performance for all Development Partners at that time not just WB.

 The Design - I think WB should be commended for including increasing access to essential
services for women and children in the programme rather than an exclusive focus on systems as
it was clearly trying to learn from the major criticism of SWAps that they were not focused on
outcomes but that made it particularly more complex and difficult to manage

 I think what needs to be taken into consideration when assessing the design of DARE is the
political and funding environment at the time the project was developed. Donors were seeking
ways of not supporting the central government and WB was not the only donor that decided that
funds to the districts were a better option. SIDA also had a district programme whoich was
closed prematurely as it was not performing. I would say that the design was lead more by
political expediency than a technical rigid assessment of the commitment of GoK to
decentralization or an assessment of whether districts had the capacity to handle the funds.

Implementation - Grants to selected districts versus all districts was a matter of huge debate in
the health sector meetings in the early days of DARE. It was recognized that although rolling out
to all districts was very risky not to do so also had risks of ccusations of favoritism and could
result in political problems for MoH.


An achievement of DARE in addition to those mentioned was that it was the first to start
discussions on a pro poor criteria for allocating budgets to districts from which lessons have been
learnt and are informing the dialogue on district allocations.

There is no reference to the effect the Global Fund might have had on the implementation of
DARE. I have argued that during the introduction of the GF and for several years afterwards
( the period which DARE was operating ) discussion on how to achieve the MDGS and health
systems issues such as decentralization did not take place . Areas that were not part of the GF



                                                   31

such as Child Health and Reproductive Health were particularly neglected and this may have
contributed to the poor performance of these programmes compared to HIV.

M and E - Whilst noting the fact that an M and E system was not established I am a little
surprised to see the DHS of 2003 being used to evaluate the performance of the programme
which finished in 2007. I also don't see that DARE should have set up a parallel M and E
system but perhaps could be questioned for not making the strengthening of the MOH HMIS
system an objective. The recent reviews of annual performance do not contain information on all
the indicators required but would certainly show a more updated assessment of the status of many
of these indicators in 2006/7 eg immunization was 71% in 2006.

Over the period of DARE implementation the WB worked closely with DFID and other partners
in the health sector to try and move forward reforms and ensure synergy and complementarity in
the different approaches being used to support the health sector. It was a particularly difficult
period to work in the health sector and a lesson for all partners has been how the health sector has
moved forward quickly in developing the SWAp since the end of 2005 when MOH began
slowly to lead the process.




                                                32

                         ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS


1. Independent Panel Review of the World Bank Group Department of Institutional Integrity,
   Paul A. Volcker, September 13, 2007;
2. Rural Integrated Health Services ­ Kenya; Sida, Health Division Document 2002:3; by
   Gordon Tamm;
3. Baseline Study for the Decentralized HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health Project, Ministry
   of Health Final Report, June 2001;
4. A Review of the Health Sector In Kenya, Kenya Institute for Policy Research and Analysis,
   KIPRA Working Paper No. 11, March 2004;
5. Kenya Health SWAp, a Concept Paper (Principals for a Joint Start), First Draft; 26 October
   2005;
6. Project Document on Rural Integrated Health Services, Swedish Support to the Health Sector
   in Kenya 2000 ­ 2003, March 2000;
7. Review of the Essential Drugs Programme in Kenya and Development of an Interim Strategy;
   Final Report, Crown Agents; May 2001;
8. Evaluation Report, Support to the Rural Integrated Health Services Programme in Kenya.
   Final Report to the Swedish Embassy Nairobi/Sida, August 2005. Peter Njoroge and Jan
   valdelin;
9. Completion Report: Rural Integrated Health Services Program (2001 ­ June 2006), Ministry
   of Health September 2006;
10. The Second National Health Sector Strategic Plan of Kenya (2005 ­ 10); Ministry of Health,
    2005;
11. Health Sector Performance Report, July 2005 ­ June 2006, Reversing the Trends, Ministry of
    Health, Health Sector Reform Secretariat, November 2006;
12. Facts and Figures at a Glance. Health and Health Related Indicators; Ministry of Health,
    2006;
13. Institutional Assessment, Kenya Decentralized HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health Project
    (DARE), 29 February 2000;
14. Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 1998;
15. Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 2003
16. Kenya HIV/MCH SPA, Service Provision Assessment Survey, 2004.




                                              33

