CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 512 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Program Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 24, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 512 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Program Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 24, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF SRI
LANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Eligible Agencies and Enterprises" means
such agencies, corporations or enterprises, as shall be notified from time to time
by the Borrower to the Association, in the sectors listed in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods required for the carrying out of the Project and to be financed


﻿4
out of the proceeds of the Credit and to be procured by public sector corporations
and agencies, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, shall be awarded
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 30, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
November 1, 1984, and ending May 1, 2024, each installment to'and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate
applications from Eligible Agencies and Enterprises, issue, or cause to be issued,
such import licenses as shall be required to carry out the Project: and (ii) make
available, or cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange
which shall be required to carry out the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the goods to be financed ;ut of
the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or shall cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿5
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, all plans and programs for the Project, and any
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenantv
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank of Ceylon to
open an account (hereinafter referred to as the Project Account), in the name
of the Borrower, and to credit to the Project Account, upon each withdrawal from
the Credit Account, the equivalent in Rupees of the currency or currencies
withdrawn from the Credit Account (such equivalent to be determined as of the
respective dates of such withdrawals).
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the amounts credited
to the Project Account shall be used exclusively to finance such development
expenditures as may be indicated in the 1974 and forthcoming 1975 budgets of
the Borrower.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank of Ceylon to prepare
monthly statements of expenditures under the Project Account and to forward
said statements to the Association for its review not later than two weeks after
the end of each month.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purpose of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the Association shall at
any time have determined, after reviewing in consultation with the Borrower the
progress being made by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, that the
purpose for which the Credit is extended is not likely to be achieved.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date November 25, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 15 months after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary
Ministry of Planning and
Economic Affairs
Colombo
Sri Lanka


﻿7
Cable address:
SECMINPLAN
Colombo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreemen to be signed
in their respective names in the District of-Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s / Neville Kanakaratne
Authorized Representatie
IN'i.'RNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of imported items to be finaIced
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of the Credit thereto:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                         Dollar Equivalent)
Raw materials,                                         15,000,000
components and
spare parts for
sectors listed in
paragraph (A) of
Schedule 4 and
spare parts for
sectors listed
in paragraph (B)
thereof
TOTAL                                15,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower; and
(b)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
3.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting


﻿9
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms a part of a program of the Borrower, for the import
of goods into the territories of the Borrower for the purpose of improving the
efficient utilization of existing productive capacity in agriculture and industry and
the strengthening of selected essential services.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   With respect to any contract, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more, for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and to be procured by a public sector corporation or agency:
(a)   offers sha)l be invited from not less than three of the major suppliers
from the member countries of the Bank and Switzerland; and
(b)   the contract shall be awarded to the supplier whose offer is the lowest
evaluated offer.
2.    The Borrower shall retain, in its Central Bank, all relevant documentation
relating to the goods procured by public sector corporations and agencies and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, for review by the Association at
its request.
3.    Applications for withdrawal from the Credit Account in respect of contracts
awarded to the lowest evaluated offer shall be submitted to the Association by
the Central Bank of Ceylon with a statement that the purchasing corporation o;
agency has certified that the conditions set forth in paragraph I of this Schedule
have been satisfied, and with documentation on evidence of payment and of
shipment together with the supplier's invoice.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 4
Eligible Sectors
Listed hereunder are the sectors from which the agencies and enterprises
are to be selected:
(A)   1.    Agricultural engineering
2.    Agricultural products processing
3.    Pulp, paper and paper products
4.    Packaging and containers
5.    Base metals and metal working
6.    Agricultural and industrial chemicals
7.    Cables and wires
8.    Auto ancillaries
9.    Leather products
10.   Mining
11.   Textiles
(B)   1.    Agricultural and irrigation equipment
2.    Commercial transport
3.    Heavy earth-moving equipment
4.    Power generation equipment


