,.Xy \3 5- 17y,
RESTRICTED
Report No. P-594
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published noir may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
R:EPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT       |     EIUXU     w
TO THE          REPOR        DES
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 9, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONi Ai,D DEVELOI4ENT
REPORT AND RMCOJIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
Tn THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PRIOP0SED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A THIRD NATIONAL HIGTWAY PROJET
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a propoXed
loan in an amount in -various currencies equivalent to U.S. $29 million
to the Kcingdom of Thailand for a Third Highway Project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank has made two loans totaling $61 million for highway
projects in Thailand. The first Highway Project loan of $25 million
(341-TH) which helped finance the construction of about 328 km. of roads
also included financing for consulting services to help reorganize the
Department of Highways, technical training for Thai personnel abroad and the
preparation of studies of a substantial part of the roads included in the
Second Highway Project. It also financed the feasibility study and the
engineering of one of the roads included in the proposed Tlhird Highway Project.
After a slowty start the project has progressed satisfactorily and is expected
to be completed towards the end of this year, about 6 months behind schedule.
The second loan of $36 million, (455-TH), helped finance the construction and
improvement of about 770 km. of roads and included a provision for consultinc
services to supervise construction and for the preparation of feasibility
studies and detailed enigineering of roads for a future project. The project
is proceeding satisfac-torily and contracts in progress cover about 90 percent.
of the work.
3.        Road transportation has grown remarkably in Thailand during the
last ten years, and is expected to continue to grow at a rate of about 13
percent a year for the foreseeable future. The existing highway system,
although much improved in the last five -ears, is inadequate to handle
present traffic requirements. The Government has placed high priority
on highway construction and improvement in the Second Development Plan
(1967-71).  The "Highway Construction and Improvement Plan 1965-1971" which
forms a part of the Development Plan, envisages the investment of about
$400 million for the construction and reconstruction of some 4,500 km.
of roads in the period. The two highways included in the Third Highway
Project are an integral part of the Plan.
4.        The Bank of Thailand has agreed to participate in the financing
of the project and would, if the proposed loan is approved, purchase a
strip of maturities totaling $25 million. This would bring the total
amount of financing provided by the Bank of Thailand for projects assisted
by Bank loans to $59 million.



-2-
5.        The invitation to negotiate the proposed loan was delayed pending
the Government's agreement to the terms of reference for a transportation
coordination study which is to be financed by U.S. AID. Agreement on the
terms of reference has now been reached and the study is expected to begin
within the next 3-4 months.  Negotiations took place in Washington between
April 8 and April 12, 1968. The Government was represented by
11 E. Buchana Atthakor, the Ambassador of Thailand and Hr. Uthai Vodhigula,
Director General of the Department of Highways.
6.        The proposed loan would be the nineteenth Bank loan to Thailand,
of which eleven are fully disbursed. The following is a summary statement
of Bank loans to Thailand as at MTarch 31, 1968:
(U.S. $ million)
Principal    Un-
Year  Number       Borrower             Purpose            Amount    disbursed
Fully disbursed loans                                       137.4
1963  341-TH Kingdom of Thailand National Highways           25.0      6.9
1964  394-TH Kingdom of Thailand TMeklong Irrigation         22.0      9.5
1965  406-TH Yanhee Electricity    Power                      6.0      0.1
Authority
1966  455-TH Kingdom of Thailand   National Highways         36.0     27.8
471-TH Kingdom of Thailand   Vocational riducation      6.0      6.o
1967  489-TH Yanhee Electricity    Power                      5.0      4.6
Authority
1967  514-TH Kingdom of Thailand   Phasom Dam - Irrigation   26.0     25.9
Total (less cancellations):                                 263.4
of which has been repaid to
Bank and Others                                             45.3
Total now outstanding:                                      218.1
Amount sold:                       33.9
of which has been repaid:          9.4                      24.5
Total now held by the Bank:                                 193.6
Total undisbursed                                                     80.8
No IDA credits have been made to Thailand.



- 3 -
7.        Progress under Bank-financed projects in Thailand has generally
been satisfactory. Complicated procurement procedures caused some delay
in making disbursements from the 1961 Railway Loan (280-TH), but the Loan
is now fully disbursed. The Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
(IFCT) was slow to submit projects for financing under Loan 370-TH, and
the undisbursed balance of the Loan, $1.5 million, has now been cancelled.
8.        There are no Bank operations in prospect in Thailand for the next
few months. At the request of the Government the Bank appraised a railway
project in November 1967. The project has been delayed because of
difficulties encountered by the Government in evaluating bids for the
supply of diesel locomotives. M-loreover, it is not yet certain whether the
Government will confirm its intention to seek a Bank loan for the project
or obtain financing through suppliers' credits. A mission is now in
Thailand to appraise the Phasom Dam Power Project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
9.        Borrower:          Kingdom of Thailand.
Amount:            U.S. $29 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:           To assist in financing the construction
and improvement of two primary highways
totaling about 480 km.; consulting
services for the supervision of
construction and detailed engineering
of about 635 km. of feeder roads;
overseas training of technical staff
of the Department of Highways.
Amortization:      Semi-annual instalments from October 15,
1972 to April 15, 1988.
Interest:          6-1/4h,; per annum.
Commitment
charges:         3/4 of 1%



PAIRT III - THE PROJECT
10.       An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of a Third Highway
Project - Thailand" (TO-630a) on the proposed project is attached.
11.       The Government's Second Five-Year Development Plan makes
provision for substantial infrastructure investments to facilitate the
growrth of the national product, which is assumed to average about 8 per-
cent per annum between 1967 and 1971. Agricultural production is likely to
grow at a somewhat slower pace, wjhile manufacturing, mining and transport
are expected to grow at rates close to 13 percent. The growth of the total
vehicle fleet has averaged 13 percent between 1959 and 1966, with the
annual growth rate for trucks at 16 percent, for cars 12 percent and for
buses 6 percent. As the National Highway System has improved, the propor-
tion of vehicles registered outside the Bangkok Metropolitan area rose from
43 percent in 1959 to 47 percent in 1966.
12.       The project is part of a comprehensive program of highway
improvements in the Plan and includes the improvement and construction
of two highways totaling about 480 km.  Both highways form part of the
arterial links between Bangkok and the northern and northwestern regions
of Thailand and cross some of the most fertile agricuiltural lands of the
Central Plain.  The project also includes the detailed engineering of
about 635 km. of feeder roads selected on the basis of the potential for
agricultural development in the service areas. Consulting services for
construction supervision and overseas training of Thai technical staff
from the Department of Highway are also provided for in the project.
13.       The estimated cost of the project is U.S. $59.6 million.   The
proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of road
construction and improvement, estimated at about 48 percent of the total
cost of this work, including a 15 percent contingency allowance and the
foreign exchange costs of consulting services and overseas training of
staff from the Department of Highways. The balance of the funds needed
to complete the project would be provided by the Government.
14.       The project will be administered by the Department of Highways
of the MIinistry of National Development. Assistance provided under the
first two Bank loans and from other sources has substantially increased
the capacity of the Department of Highways to plan and carry out projects
included in the Second Development Plan and to maintain the national
highway system. Reorganization of the Department has been completed and
operating and administrative procedures have been considerably improved.
The program for local and overseas training for Thai technical personnel



is being expanded. Feasibility studies and detailed engineering of one of
the project roads were undertaken by consultants under Loan 341-TH and
of the other by consultants financed by U.S. AID. Agreement has been
reached on the design standards of the roads to be improved and constructed.
15.       The road works included in the project are justified economically
from the resulting reduction in transportation costs. The rate of return
for the Bang Pa In - Nakorn Sawan Highway is estimated at 25 percent and
the rate of return for the Saraburi - Lomsak Highway is 27 percent0   In
calculating the rate of return, past and projected use of the roads by
military traffic was excluded to ensure that the proposed investments
were justified on the basis of civilian needs.
16.       Construction work will be carried out by contractors under unit
price contracts awarded after international competitive bidding. Because
negotiations for the proposed loan were held up on account of the delays
in reaching agreement on the terms of reference for the transportation
coordination study, the Department of Highways proceeded to award contracts
for all four sections of the Saraburi - Lomsak Highway totaling $20.9
million. In placing these contracts the Department followed prescribed
international competitive procedures, but were advised that the Bank was
under no obligation to finance these contracts and that if the loan were
approved the Bank would not finance any expenditures incurred before the
<pjroposed loan was signed.
17.       The rapid expansion of transport facilities in the last few
years, particularly in the road transport industry and the level of the
investment expenditures proposed for the future have emphasized the need
for a careful assessment of the optimal allocation of resources between
the competing modes of transport. To help the Government determine
appropriate bases of user charges for the various modes of transport and
provide guidance on closer coordination of transport policy, the Government
is making arrangements to have a transport coordination study carried out
which U.S. AID has agreed to finance.   The study is expected to be completed
in the second half of 1969.
PART IV - LEAL FT'TSTRUTMTTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the DXecutive Directors separately. The Draft Agreement conforms
substantially to the usual pattern for projects of this kind.



-6-
PART V - THF ECOINTMY
19.       A report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Thailandtt
(AS 130a) was distributed to the EXecutive Directors on June 1l, 1967. A
brief resume of the report, and a review¢ of economic developnients since
then are given in the following paragraphs.
20.       The Thai economy has established an impressive record of economic
growth of 8 percent per annum in the past six years, while investment
expanded by over 15 percent annually to raise its share in GDP to 23 percents
an increase nearly matched by domestic savings. Per capita income has
increased by half in a decade despite a high rate of population increase
at 3.3 percent per annum. Tlis remarkable achievement reflects the dynamic
aualities of Thailand's private sector which has been supported by
appropriate public economic policies and a rapid increase in public invest-
ment. Private enterprise is well established, and there is an aggressive
commercial sector. The important agricultural sector has seized upon new
opportunities so that much of the rapid growth in exports over the last
several years has come from non-traditional products. At the same time,
progress has been made in establishing a more balanced economy as other
sectors have grown more rapidly than agriculture. In particular, manufactu-
ring has expanded at an annual rate of 12 percent, raising its contribution
to GDP to over 14 percent in 1967.
21.       The country is now embarked on its second five-year Development
Plan, 1967-71, which calls for a considerable increase in public
expenditure over the levels of the first plan. There is a justified shift
towards providing better communal services, including education. The Plan
also provides for a stepped-up effort in raising incomes in the relatively
poor northeastern part of the country which was neglected in the past and
where there is concern over the security situation.
22.       The development program calls for GDP to continue expanding by
8 percent a year and for a further increase in the investment level. It
will require resources considerably in excess of the amount Thailand can
reasonably be expected to mobilize domestically. The Bank's last economic
report suggested that the Government should be able to realize somewhat
greater public savings than envisaged in the Plan, but concluded that even
then a resource gap in the order of U.S. $925 million was likely to
emerge for the five-year period as a whole. Allowing for sizeable inflows
to the private sector and for official grants in sight, largely from the
United States in support of programs for the border areas, financing of
this deficit was estimated to require U.S. $230 million roughly in new
disbursements from new loans to the public sector. Such disbursements
would call for U.S. P`400-450 million in new commitments, or an annual
rate of U.S. $80-90 million, as compared with nearly U.S. $60 million
obtained annually in the early 1960's. The report concluded that such new
borrowing would raise no question of creditworthiness. It also pointed
out that most of the new borrowing would be needed only during the second
half of the Plan period, as prospects were for a strong expansion of expoi-ta
anDd continuing large receipts from the U.S. military to produce a sizeable



-7-
balance of payments surplus in 1967 and 1968 leading to a considerab'pe
increase in reserves beyond the U.S. $925 million theYi held by the Banrk of
Thailand.  It was in the light of these prospects that the Bank decided for
the time being to finance, out of its owqn resources, only a fraction of
the foreign exchange cost of projects in Thailand.
23.       This assessment is basically still valid although it now appears
that an overall deficit will emerge in Thailand's balance of payments
somewhat earlier than expected last year. 1967 was a difficult year for
Thailand's agriculture as all major crops suffered badly from a prolonged
drought. In areas outside the Central Plain where paddy is grown without
irrigation, output fell sharply.  Preliminary estimates place the total
harvest at 8.5 - 10 million tons, as compared to nearly 12 million tons in
the previous year.  Production of maize was down by 10 percent, and other
crops suffered similar declines.  To the difficulties caused by the
drought was added a sharp decline in world market prices for rubber and
kenaf, in the latter case accentuated by a considerable drop in sales
resulting from India's withdrawal from the market.
24.       As paddy, the most important crop, is harvested only toward the erd
of the year, repercussions of the setback in agriculture on the rest of the
economy did not make themselves felt fully in 1967. For this reason, but also
because two autonomous factors - Government outlays and expenditures by the
U.S. military - continued expanding strongly, GDP as a whole kept growing by
about 7 percent, as compared with an annual average of 8 percent over the
five-year period 1962-1966. The basic strength of the economy is also eviderlt
in the buoyancy of investment which continued to expand by 11 percent.   How-
ever, savings suffered a set-back as the marginal savings rate fell sharply
and merchandise exports grew by only 2.7 percent, largely because earnings
from rubber and kenaf were down sharply. In contrast, and reflecting the
continuing buoyancy of domestic demand, imports rose by 16 percent, increasi.ng
the trade deficit to U.S. $345 million.  This was in large part financed fror'.
higher net earnings from services, in particular to the U.S. military, so t1l.t
the current account deficit was kept down to U.S. $70 million. However, this
deficit contrasts with a surplus of U.S.$30 million projected last year and
explains why the increase in reserves fell far short of the estimated U.S.$-J.5"
million and came to only U.S. $60 million.
25.       The outlook for 1968 is for a further increase in Thailand's
deficit on current account, probably involving some loss of reserves while iv
was   expected last year that reserves would increase by U.S. $50 million.
In 1968, the effect of last year's poor crops on the surplus of
agricultural commodities available for export, particularly of rice,
will be fully felt. It is now estimated that this reduction, combined with
continiuing difficulties in the kenaf market, will cause exports to decline by
nearly U.S.$70 million, or 10 percent below their 1967 level - the first
time since the late 1950's that Thailand would experience a significant
drop in e.port earnings. The growth of imports, following two years of very
rapid advances, will probably slow down considerably, but how much is at
present difficult to say. While the public sector probably will - and, in
view of Thailand's growth potential and strong reserve position, should -
continue to be expansionary, uncertainties surround the pace of private
economic activity.  Here, some slowdown will probably be unavoidable,
paz'ticularly with respect to investment. This could be quite substantial
. agricultural production fails to recover in 1968.  It is premature now



- 8 -
to speculate how this year's crop may turn out. However, since the drought
has left many reservoirs unable to supply sufficient water for supplementary
irrigation during the early stages of cultivation, it is clear that a good
crop, particularly of rice, will depend to an unusually large extent on
timely and adequate rains.
26.       On the asslmption that private economic activity will not be
depressed severely by another poor crop, present indications are that
Thailand's balance of payments for 1968 will show a deficit on current
account in the order of U.S. P'200 million, This would be nearly three
times last year's deficit and its financing may require U.S. $40-50 million
of Thailand's reserves. HIowever, with official reserves standing at over
U.S. $1,000 million, Thailand can comfortably manage such a drawdolTm.
27.       So far, there is no evidence to suggest that the set-back of
agriculture in 1967 and the somewhat uncertain outlook for 1968 reflect
any basic weakness in the Thai economy.  However, this subject will receive
the special attention of a Bank economic mission that will visit Thailand
later this year.  The mission will also review the financial outlooK through
the end of the Second Plan period in 1971 and reassess Thailand's needs for
inflows of capital from official sources abroad.
PART VI - COT1PLALCE WITH ARTICLES OF ACrREEYEDT
28.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RMiO1-MDATI0IN
29.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLTTIOTT NO.
Approval of a loan to the Klingdom of Thailand (Third Highway
Project) in the amount of the equivalent of U.S.$29,000,000.
RESOLVE&D:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Kingdom of Thailand in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-nine million United
States dollars (U.S. p29,000,000), to mature on and prior to April 15,
1988, to bear interest at the rate of six and one quarter percent (6-/4!,)
per annum and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of Loan Agreement (Third Highway Project) between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Bank which has been presented to this meeting.
Washington, D. C.                                  Robert S. Ifc'Hamara
lMay 9, 1968                                           President



