A/ 535-7                     FILE F     COPY
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-63'Oa
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility,r its arqcy.or, rppeteness. The report may
not be published nbrLAi+3Li ged as-pris-en`ti'ng-heir views.
INTERNATIONAL) OAI (OR RECONSTRUCTION A N1D?i DEVELOPMENT
INThRNXTIOeAL DEVELOPMENT &SSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
THAILAND
May 3, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unlt       a     Baht ($)
US$ 1              .      ]1 20.80
s I                      t US$ 0. 048
g 1 million        o      us$ 48, 076
FISCAL YEAR
October 1                September 30
Untts of Weiahts and Measures: Metric



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUN1MARY                                                               i - ii
I. INTRODUCTION                         ..                               1
2. BACKGROUND.                                                           2
A. Geographic and Demographic.                                      2
B. The Transport Sector.                                            2
C. Transport Coordination.                                          4
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR.                                                   6
A. The Highway Network.                                             6
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic                     6
C. Highway Administration.                                          6
D. Highway Planning and Finance.                                    7
E.   Highway Design and Construction.                               8
F. Highway Maintenance.                                             8
G.   Previous Bank Financed Highway Projects                        9
4. THE PROJECT .10
A. General Description .10
B. Construction and Improvement .10
C. Consulting Services .12
D. Training Program .13
E.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component                 13
F. Project Execution and Finance.                                  14
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .16
A. General .16
B.   Bang Pa In-Nakorn Sawan Highway .16
C. Saraburi-Lomsak Highway.                                       18
D. Consultants' Studies .20
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .21
This appraisal report is based on the findings of Bank missions to Thailand
in July 1967 consisting of Messrs. Park and Morris, and in December 1967
consisting of Messrs. Park and Pickering, and upon engineering and economic
feasibility studies prepared by several consulting engineers during 1964-1967.



TABLEPS
1.   Motor Vehicle Registration, Composition and Growth
2.   Civilian Consumption of Motor Fuels
3.   Highway Expenditures
4.   Design Standards
5.   Estimate of Cost
6.   Vehicle Operating Costs in Flat Country for Inter-Urban Roads
7.   Traffic Projection
CIHART:   Organization of Department of Highways
14AP:     MTational Highway Network



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Thailand has requested the Bank's assistance
in financing a highway project. The proposed project would comprise:
(a) the construction and improvement of parts of two
primary highways totaling 478 km;
(b) consulting services for supervision of construction works
under (a) above., preparation of detailed engineering of
about 635 km of feeder (tertiary) roads, and
(c)  a program for overseas training of members of the Highway
Department staff.
ii.       The total cost of the project is about US$ 60 million equivalent
and a loan of US$ 29 million is proposed to cover the foreign exchange cost.
The executing agency will be the Department of Highways of the Ministry of
National Development.
iii.      This will be the third Bank loan to Thailand for highways.   The
first loan of US$ 35 million (341-TH) was made in June 1963, but was cut back
to US$ 25 million in 1964 at the Government's request to eliminate from the
project some roads on which a substantial amount of work had been carried out
by the Highway Department's own forces. The construction work in that project
is now about 90 percent completed and, with the exception of a small part of
the work on one road, is likely to be finished before the Closing Date for the
loan, June 30, 1968.
iv.       The second loan of US$ 36 million (455-TH) was made in June 1966
for highway construction and improvement, for consulting services including
supervision of construction, and for feasibility studies and the detailed
engineering of roads for a future Droject.   Contracts are already in progress
covering about 90 percent of the work.
v.        Work on both projects is proceeding satisfactorily.   The quality
is good and the wide interest shown by international contractors has ensured
competitive bidding and reasonable prices.
vi.       Although there has been a considerable improvement in the national
primary highway system during the past five years, it is still not adequate
to accommodate the existing traffic, which has been increasing at a rapid
rate.
vii.      The Government is placing special emphasis on highway improvements
in its transportation investment program. An investment of US$ 400 million
equivalent for the construction and major improvement of 4,500 km of roads



- ii -
and paving of 3,100 km of existing roads is envisaged in the period 1965-
1971. The highways included in the proposed project represent some of the
highest priority items in the Government's program.
viii.     The project works are technically sound and are economically jus-
tified by the expected reduction in vehicle operating costs. In preparing
traffic forecasts, recent and future increases due to rising military activity
and expenditure have not been taken into account. The rates of return on the
two project roads are 25 percent and 27 percent.
ix.       Construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding. The execution of the project works is expected to take
about 4 years, with completion about the end of 1971.
x.        The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 29 million equivalent
with a 20-year term including a 414-year period of grace.



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Thailand has asked the Bank for
further assistance in financing its highway investment Drogram; the proposed
project would cover the construction and improvement of about 478 km of pri-
mary roads, supervision of the works by consultants, and further engineering
services by other consultants for the detailed engineering of about 635 km
of feeder (tertiary) roads. The total cost of the project is estimated at
about US$ 60 million; a loan of US$ 29 million is pronosed to meet the esti-
mated foreign exchange cost.
1.02      This would be the third Bank loan to Thailand for highways.   The
first loan (341-TH, see Report No. TO-355a), made in June 1963, was originally
for US$ 35 million equivalent but, at the request of the Government was, later
cut back to US$ 25 million equivalent. The second loan (455-TH, see Report
No. TO 531a), for US$ 36 million equivalent, was made in June 1966. There has
been widespread interest by international contractors and reasonable contract
prices have been obtained. Experience on both these projects has been very
satisfactory and this is further elaborated in paras. 3.15 to 3.17.   Three
loans have been made to Thailand for railways and two for ports. The railway
loans are for US$ 3.0 million (35-TH, October 1950), US$ 12.0 (128-TH, August
1955) and US$ 14.6 million (280-TH, April 1961) and the port loans are for
US$ 4.4 million (37-TH, October 1950) and US$ 3.4 million (151-TH, October
1956); all have been fully disbursed.
1.03      Feasibility studies and detailed engineering for one of the two
roads to be constructed under the project have been carried out by consultants
and financed by the first Bank loan, 341-TH. Feasibility studies, and the
detailed engineering, of the second road, Saraburi-Lomsak, have been carried
out by other consultants and financed by US AID.
1.04      This appraisal is based on the studies referred to above, on the
findings of Bank appraisal missions consisting of Messrs. Park and Morris
which visited Thailand in July 1967, and of Messrs. Park and Pickering which
visited Thailand in December 1967.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Geographic and Demographic
2.01      Thailand has an area of approximately 510,000 km2 and a population
of about 33 million, similar in size and population to Spain. It is bordered
by Burma on the west, Laos on the north and east, Cambodia on the southeast
and Malaysia on the south. Its main coastline is on the Gulf of Thailand to
the south but the southern isthmus also borders the Indian Ocean.
2.02      For geographic and economic purposes the country may be considered
as consisting of five regions.  The Northern region has mountain ranges with
relatively narrow valleys and good rainfall; it produces agricultural products,
timber and minerals. The Northeastern region is a relatively dry plateau in
the catchment basin of the Mekong River; it is the least developed region with
largely subsistence farming. The Central region consists of the broad lowland
plains of the Chao Phraya River and its tributaries; the adequate rainfall,
and irrigation from the rivers, make it one of the main rice-producing areas
in the world; near the mouth of the Chao Phraya River is the capital city of
Bangkok, which has a population of about 2 million and is the main port, com-
mercial and industrial center.  The Southern region, forming the isthmus of
the Malayan peninsula, is a major producer of tin and rubber.   The Southeastern
region, lying between the central plain and the Cambodian border, is largely
a subsistence agricultural area with the main product being cassava.
2.03      The population is increasing rapidly, at about 3.3 percent a year.
The towns are relatively small. The population is generally well distributed,
although there is some concentration in the central lowland plains, especially
around Bangkok.
2.04      The GDP, which is now nearly Us$ 4.4 billion, has recently grown by
7.3 percent p.a. at constant prices.  It is expected to continue to grow at
or near this impressive figure in the immediate future.  Although Thailand is
still a relatively poor country, with a per capita income of about $130, it
has achieved the remarkably high rate of investment of 22 percent of GDP, of
which over 90 percent is derived from domestic private and public savings.
This has been accomplished with relatively stable prices, which have been
rising at about 2 percent per year between 1960 and 1966. About 33 percent
of the GDP is from agriculture which is growing at about 5 percent per year;
manufacturing, mining and construction account for 20 percent of GDP and are
growing at about 13 percent per year. The growth in the GDP has been achieved
mainly by private economic activity, aided by Government investment largely
for the improvement of the infrastructure concerned with agriculture, trans-
portation and power.
B.   The Transport Sector
a)   General
2.05      Transportation in Thailand has been influenced by three main factors:
(a) most of the mountain ranges and rivers run from north to south; (b) the
urban centers are located mostly in the lower Central region while (c) most



-3-
food-growing areas are further north and usually along the rivers and canals.
A large part of the southbound traffic consists of agricultural produce, which
is carried to the food-consuming and processing centers of the lower Central
region and also to the Port of Bangkok for export, while the north-bound
traffic represents imported or domestically manufactured consumer goods.
2.06      The result is that, on the whole, the country's main transport
arteries run from north to south, with a lateral network of secondary roads
feeding into them. Communication from east to west is less developed due
mainly to the difficult terrain which entails the crossing of several moun-
tain ranges and rivers.
2.07      Except for the railways, there are no satisfactory traffic statis-
tics on passenger and freight by mode of surface transport.   Nevertheless,
the indirect evidence indicates that highway transport has been growing at
such a rapid rate in the last ten years that it is now by far the most
important transport mode.
b)   Highways
2.08      The major arteries of the road network radiate from Bangkok (see
Map). Highway development was generally slow until the early 1960's. Between
1960 and 1966 it has accelerated and the national network, under the jurisd-
iction of the Department of Highways, has increased from 8,300 km to over
10,300 km. The length of paved roads has grown from 2,800 km to nearly 5,400
km during the same period. Nevertheless, the present system is inadequate
even for the existing traffic, and major improvements will be needed to carry
the increasing traffic to be expected as the economy develops.
2.09      To overcome the inadequacies of the road network, the Government
is placing special emphasis on highway improvements in its transport invest-
ment program. Its "Highwav Construction and Improvement Plan, 1965-1971",
envisages an investment of nearly US$ 400 million for the construction, or
reconstruction of 4,500 km of roads, including a small number of four-lane
roads, and the paving of 3,100 km of existing roads. The proposed Third
Highway Project constitutes an integral part of the Plan, as was the earlier
Second Highway Project financed by the Bank.
c)   Railways
2.10      The Thailand State Railway system consists of about 3,700 km of
meter-gauge mainline track, radiating from Bangkok; the principal lines run
from north to south, as in the case of other transport modes. There have
been three Bank loans for railway projects, the last (Loan No. 280-TH) of
uS$ 14.6 million, being to finance part of the Third Railway Invesment Program,
1961-1966. Performance has been generally satisfactory, but there have been
some design and location difficulties leading to delays and completion of the
program is now expected by about the end of 1969. The State Railways have
prenared a new five-year investment program to be included in the Second
National Economic Development Plan, Fiscal Years 1967-71. This new program
will require an expenditure of about US$ 90 million equivalent mainly for
the purchase of rolling stock, relaying of tracks and replacement of buildings



-4-
and maintenance equipment. The foreign exchange requirement is estimated at
about US$ 41 million. A Bank appraisal of this investment program is under
way.
2.11      Carload freight traffic, which has been growing at an annual rate
of about 6 percent during the past six years, amountea to about 1.6 billion
ton-km in 1966. The average haul was 385 km and has been increasing slowly.
The major commodities carried are rice, petroleum products, lumber, cement
and clinker; these, in 1966, accounted for over 60 percent of the carload
traffic in terms of ton-km and 45 percent of the total carload freight re-
venue. The volume of passenger traffic has been increasing at slightly over
5 percent per annum and totalled 3.2 billion passenger-km in 1966.
d)   Inland Waterways
2.12      The 1,600 km inland waterways system, based on the Chao Phraya River
and its tributaries and on canals linking these rivers, serves a farm popula-
tion of about 9-10 million in the Central Plain. More than 80 percent of the
country's annual rice crops of 10 million tons move over the waterway system.
This is more-than twice the total tonnage handled annually by the railway.
Nearly 2 million tons of the rice moved by water are presently shipped to the
Port of Bangkok, where they are trans-shipped to ocean-going vessels for ex-
port; they bring in nearly 40 percent of Thailand's export earnings. In
addition, considerable quantities of teak are floated in rafts over the water-
ways to the Port of Bangkok for export. The reverse traffic consists mainly
of consumer goods. There is also a large volume of passenger traffic on the
waterways.
2.13      While the waterways' importance is recognized by the Government,
little serious effort has so far been made to improve their physical con-
dition and make use of their economic potential.   Inadequate attention has
resulted in poor maintenance of the waterways with a resultant reduction
in depth of water available for navigation.
2.14      The little that has been invested in the waterways system in the
past has been spent on projects prepared in complete isolation from other modes
of transport. The planned transport coordination study, described below, will
review the problem of the development of the inland waterway system.
C.   Transport Coordination
2.15      Responsibility for the administration of the transport system is
divided among a number of agencies and organizations. The State Railways
is an autonomous entity with its own Board of Directors, falling under the
general supervision of the Ministry of Communications.   The Department of
Highways is in the Ministry of National Development. Other Ministries, such
as Agriculture, build minor roads with little consultation with the High-
way Department. Jurisdiction over the extensive inland waterways system
is divided among three different agencies without a regular means of consult-
ation between them. Consequently, there is no joint formulation of invest-
ment and operational policies in transportation. In theory, the National
Economic Development Board should be in charge of coordination of transport,



- 5 -
but this agency has so far been unable to cope with the problem due to lack
of experienced and trained personnel. In practice, the lack of a system-
atic policy of transport coordination has not led to any serious distortions
in the use of transportation resources so far. However, the rapid develop-
ment in the transport sector in recent years suggests that this may not be
the case much longer.
2.16      Coincident with the rapid increase in overland traffic during the
past decade there has been a marked change in the structure of the transport
system, with road transport replacing the railways as the main carrier of
inter-city freight. The present indications are that road transport will
continue to increase its share in the foreseeable future. In view of this
changing structure and the need for large scale investments throughout the
transport sector, the Government must give increasing attention to the pro-
blems of transport coordination. The basic means to this end would be the
establishment of an organization for coordination of investments and the
formulation of a rational pricing policy for the transport sector.
2.17      The Government is keenly aware of this need and proposes to carry
out a Transport Coordination Study which will provide guidelines for organiz-
ing the coordinating machinery, for preparing investment programs for the
various modes of transport, and for improving regulation of transport activ-
ities. The Government has approached US AID to finance the study which would
be carried out by Consultants. Terms of Reference were drafted by the Bank
in 1966 but their final agreement has taken longer than expected because US
AID wished to explore the possibility of including them in a larger study.
This led to financing difficulties, however, and the original Terms of Refe-
rence have now being finalized by the Thai Government and US AID with a view
to commencing the study in mid-1968 and completing it in the second half of
1969. Any major improvements in transport coordination will have to await
the completion of the Study. It is expected that the Study will deal at
length with the problems of road-rail competition and the appropriate levels
of user charges. A detailed discussion of these subjects was included in
paras. 30 and 34 of the appraisal report for the Second Highway Project (TO-
531a, May 31, 1966) and in the Economic Report (FE-53b, September 2, 1966)
and is not repeated in this report.



-6-
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Hig1hway Network
3.01      The highway network consists of three classes of roads:   primary
and secondary roads, which together form the national system, and feeder
(tertiary) roads. The primary roads total 4,700 km of which 3,100 km, or 66
percent, are paved.  The secondary roads total 5,600 km, of which 2,200 km,
or 40 percent, are paved. The total length of feeder roads is approximately
7,000 km of which a negligible amount is paved. The total length of the net-
work is therefore about 17,000 km; that is about 35 km per 1,000 km2 of land
area or 52 km per 100,000 population. Corresponding figures for Iran and
Spain, for example, are 20 and 200 km per 1,000 km2, and 160 and 1,280 km per
100,000 population.
3.02      The first task in the Government's road development program has been
to provide an adequate national system of all-weather primary and secondary
roads.  As this need is gradually being met, the Government is now giving an
increasing emphasis to improvement and construction of feeder roads. To
assist in this the Bank financed a study of 2,000 km of feeder roads under
the First Highway Loan (341-TH) and the detailed engineering of about 635
km of roads, to be selected on the basis of the study, is included in the
proposed project.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      The total vehicle fleet has grown from 88,000 in 1959 to over 206,000
in 1966.  This is equivalent to an annual growth rate of about 13 percent, and
is expected to continue in the immediately foreseeable future. The annual
growth rate for trucks has been 16 percent, for cars 12 percent and for buses
6 percent (see Table 1).
3.04      With the improvement of the national road system, there has been a
gradual rise in the proportion of vehicles registered outside the Bangkok
metropolitan area, from 43 percent in 1959 to 47 percent in 1966.
3.05      It is difficult to determine precise volumes of highway passenger
and freight traffic. Rough estimates can be made, however, on the basis of
the growth of the vehicle fleet, changes in the location of registrations
(see Table 1), and in motor fuel consumption (see Table 2). The volume of
road freight is estimated to have increased by over 5 times from about 900
million ton-km in 1955 to around 5,000 million ton-km in 1966. Rail traffic
in the same period has less than doubled from 870 million ton-km in 1955 to
about 1,600 million ton-km in 1966. It is therefore probable that road
traffic is now over three times the volume of rail traffic.
C.   Highway Administration
3.06      The Department of Highways in the Ministry of National Development
is the executive authority responsible for the construction, maintenance and
administration of all national (primary and secondary) roads and the more im-
portant feeder roads. Minor feeder roads are maintained by provincial autho-



- 7 -
rities umder the Ministry of the Interior. The Irrigation Department and the
Ministry of Agriculture construct minor roads to give access for the operation
and maintenance of irrigation systems. In cases where appreciable public
traffic develops such roads are taken over by the Department of Highways and
included in the feeder road system. A special force of Highway Police has
been assigned to patrol roads in the Bangkok area; their duties include the
enforcement of regulations on vehicle weights and dimensions and their cost
of about US$ 0.7 million equivalent p.a. is included in the budgetary provision
for highways (see Table 3).
3.07      The reorganization of the Department of Highways in accordance with
recommendations of Public Administration Service, on the basis of studies
financed by the US AID, was begun in 1964 and has now been carried out (see
the attached Organization Chart). Posts have been filled by recruitment of
Thai personnel. Better maintenance, planning, construction and cost accounting
methods are being introduced and headquarter and field mechanical shops and
laboratories are being extended and improved; in this, and in carrying out
training programs, the UK consulting firm, T.P. O'Sullivan and Partners, is
providing assistance under a contract financed by the First Highway Loan
(341-TH).
3.08      The training program for headquarters technical staff emphasizes on-
the-job instruction through Thai counterpart staff working with the consultants'
staff. Field training of road supervisors, and of mechanical equipment oper-
ators and maintenance staff, is being carried out at local centers equipped
and financed by Japan, New Zealand and the USA. Facilities are not, however,
available in Thailand for more advanced specialized training of senior staff
in such subjects as highway, traffic, soils and mechanical engineering. The
Department has so far sent 11 engineers on such courses, financed by the First
Highway Project, 341-TH, in the USA, Australia and the UK. The Department
wishes to send a further 20, to be financed by the proposed project. A program
for such training will be prepared with the assistance of consultants. The
trainees are required to undertake to serve the Department, on completion of
the training program, for a period at least twice as long as the period of
their overseas training. The foreign cost of this extension of the existing
overseas training program is included in the proposed project (see also
para. 4.17).
D.   Highway Planning and Finance
3.09      Highway planning is carried out by a Division of the Department
of Highways. A traffic census is taken four times a year, in October, January,
April and July. This includes counts at 250 stations on primary and secondary
roads. More recently a further 170 stations have been established for counts
on feeder roads. Additional counts are also taken as and when reauired for
snecific road improvement projects. An inventory of the highway network is
being compiled. A start has been made on the collection and analysis of a
varietv of statistics relating to highway traffic; these, supplemented by
origin and destination surveys, will help in the future evaluation of highway
projects and in preparing highway programs.



- 8 -
3.10      Highway expenditure for five years to 1966, and estimated expend-
itures for 1967 and 1968, are given in Table 3. Total expenditure has risen
from Baht 529 million (US$ 25 million) in 1962 to Baht 2,218 million (US$ 106
million) in 1967. During the same period constrXuction expenditure has in-
creased from Baht 342 million to Baht 1,613 million and maintenance expendi-
ture from Baht 99 million to Baht 245 million; this latter, however, under-
states the true increase in the maintenance expenditure as maintenance figures
up to 1965 included the cost of administration. A comparable 1967 figure
including administration would probably be about Baht 360 million. The budget
for 1968 is for a total expenditure of Baht 2,398 million, of which Baht 323
million is for maintenance.
E.        Highway Design and Construction
3.11      Highway design is carried out by the Location and Design Division of
the Department of Highways, and by consultants engaged for specific projects,
particularly for the larger ones or for those of a more complicated nature.
The design standards used for different classes of roads are given in Table 4
and they are considered suitable for the various conditions of terrain and
traffic indicated.
3.12      Almost 90 percent of road construction is now carried out by contract.
Most of the larger contracts, including those under the two previous Bank pro-
jects, are being executed by foreign contractors, but many smaller works
financed from the budget are being carried out by local contractors. Force
account construction is now largely confined to minor improvement and paving
work and to construction of low cost feeder roads. About US$ 10 million of
this work is being financed by USAID under a rural development program in
the Northeastern region.
F.   Highway Maintenance
3.13      Maintenance of highways is the responsibility of the Maintenance
Division of the Department of Highways which has a headquarters supervisory
section and twelve field Divisions each subdivided into a headquarters and
three to five Districts. The total number of Districts is 50 (see Chart
showing organization). There has been considerable improvement in highway
maintenance over the last few years attributable to (i) the reorganization
and training which has taken place on the advice, and with the continuing
help, of consultants, (ii) increased maintenance funds (para. 3.10) and (iii)
the provision of additional mechanical equipment including the purchases
financed under the First Highway Loan (341-TH). The improvement of main-
tenance operations is continuing with the assistance of the consultants.
Measures include the introduction of better techniques, of new systems of
works costing and programming, and the training of field staff.   Facilities
for servicing mechanical equipment are being improved. The aim is, by 1970,
to provide workshops at a cost of about US$ 150,000 each for the five Divisions
at present with inadeauate facilities and where equipment has to be transported
long distances for repair.
3.14      With the improvement in operational and administrative efficiency,
and the increase in budget allocations, the available budget fund is adequate



-9-
for routine maintenance operations and an increasing amount of periodic main-
tenance. However, budget allocations should continue to increase to cope
adeauately with additional work caused by increasing traffic volumes; such
work would consist chiefly of resurfacing of bitumen roads and regraveling,
with major reshaping where necessary, of gravel roads. Special maintenance
allocations will be required on some lengths of bitumen roads which were
constructed to low specifications some years ago and which are deteriorating
under the increasing load of traffic. During negotiations the Government
agreed that it will continue to provide adequate funds for meeting the in-
creasing requirements for road maintenance.
G.   Previous Bank-Financed Highway Projects
3.15      Two previous Bank loans have been made to Thailand for highways.
The first (341-TH, see Report No. TO-355a), made in June 1963, was originally
for US$ 35 million for the construction and improvement of about 630 km of
national highways, the purchase of maintenance equipment, engineering services
for these works, for assistance in reorganizing the Department of Highways
and training of Thai personnel, as well as feasibility studies on about 2,000
km of feeder roads. Because of delays in the initial stages of appointing
consulting engineers and letting contracts, and improvement work carried out
by the Government's own forces in the meantime, the Government requested
that the project should be cut back. Accordingly, in July 1964, the length
of roads to be constructed and improved was reduced by about 300 km and the
amount of the loan reduced to US$ 25 million. The project has since proceeded
satisfactorily. The construction is about 90 percent complete and is likely
to be finished before the closing date of June 30, 1968, except for a small
part of one road (Chiengmai-Lampang) which is being constructed by a local
contractor; the Government is applying for an extension of the Closing Date
by six months. The quality of the work is good. All the maintenance equip-
ment has been purchased or contracts placed. The Highway Department has been
reorganized and the training of Thai personnel is proceeding satisfactorily.
3.16      The Second Highway Loan (455-TH, see Report No. TO-531a), for US$ 36
million equivalent, was made in June 1966 for the construction and improvement
of about 770 km of primary highways, engineering services for their construc-
tion, and for feasibility studies and the review of engineering for a further
190 km of primary highway. The progress on this project, due for completion
on September 30, 1970, is satisfactory. Contracts are already in progress
covering about 90 percent of the work; the last contract is expected to be
awarded by July 1968.
3.17      Widespread interest has been shown by international contractors in
bidding for all of the road works in both the loan projects, and competitive
prices have been obtained.



- 10 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(a) The Construction and Improvement of parts of two primary
highways including two-lane bituminous paving; the sections
are (see Map);
i)   Bang Pa In-Nakorn Sawan             195 km
ii)   Saraburi-Lomsak                     283 km
Total          478
(b) Consulting Services for:
i)   The supervision of construction of the 478 km of roads
listed above.
ii)   The detailed engineering of approximately 635 km of
feeder roads (to be selected on the basis of the
Feeder Road Study financed under the First Highway
Project, Loan 341-TH).
(c) A program for overseas training of members of the technical
staff of the Department of Highways.
B.   Construction and Improvement
Bang Pa In-Nakorn Sawan Highway (195 km)
4.02      This section forms part of the main road from Bangkok to the north,
beginning at a point 52 km north of Bangkok. The new alignment will be about
100 km shorter than the present road which follows a circuitous route via
Saraburi and Lopburi. The existing road will continue to handle local traffic
as well as through traffic to and from Korat and further northeast. Most of
it is poorly aligned and narrow, with a pavement 5½< to 6 m wide. It has in-
adequate strength for the rapidly growing traffic with a large proportion of
heavy vehicles.  The new road will follow closely the east bank of the Chao
Phraya, the principal river in Thailand. It will thus directly serve the
fertile flood plain with its densely populated areas along the rivers and
klongs (canals), including a number of towns such as Ayuthaya (population
80,000), Angthong (population 12,000), and Singburi (population 15,000).
These towns will be by-passed about 2 km to the east. An existing road will
be used as access to Ayuthaya and new access roads to Angthong and Singburi
4 km and 1½< km long, respectively, will be constructed as part of the project.



4.03      Traffic on the existing highway varies between 900 and 7,000 vehicles
per day on different sections. On the new highway, traffic is expected to
range initially from about 1,000 to about 4,500 vehicles per day in 1971,
the first year of operation of the new highway; there will be two lanes with
a total bituminous pavement width of 7 m and the road will be designed to
P(l) standards (see Table 4).
4.04      As it lies in the flood plain of the Chao Phraya, most of the new
road will be built on an embankment 2½ to 3 meters high so as to be ½ meter
above flood level. Settlement of the swampy clay soil under the embankments
is expected during construction and at a diminishing rate afterwards and this
is allowed for in the design. Sand for the upper part of the embankments is
available from the Chao Phraya River within a reasonable haulage distance.
Gravel and stone for paving are, however, available close to the road align-
ment only on the northern 40 km of the road and long hauls will be entailed
for the remainder.
4.05.     A specially wide right-of-way, varying from 190 m to 80 m, is to
be acquired in order to obtain, by shallow excavation, material for the con-
struction and protection of the embankment (see also para. 4.12).
4.o6      The Droject will include a new bridge 350 meters long over the
Chao Phraya River near Nakorn Sawan to replace the existing bridge which
has inadequate strength and width.
4.07      Two lengths of the road north of Nakorn Sawan, totaling 418 km, are
being constructed as part of the Second Highway Project, 455-TH. These are
the Nakorn Sawan-Thern (271 km) and Ngao-Chiengrai (147 km) sections.   For
the length of about 190 km between Thern and Ngao, a feasibility study and
the revision of detailed engineering, previously carried out, are also being
financed by Loan 455-TH (see Map).
Saraburi-Lomsak Highway (283 km)
4.08      The road runs north from Saraburi, a town of 80,000 population about
110 km from Bangkok, and follows the west bank of the Pa Sak River to Lomsak
which is on the East-West Highway. The existing road follows a large loop
near the southern end, making the present distance from Saraburi to Lomsak
335 km. The construction of the new road alignment will shorten the distance
by about 50 km. Besides this circuitous length, the present road has a poor
alignment, is low, badly drained and narrow; the overall width is between 8
and 8 rnm.  Apart from the southern loop, where a new alignment is to be con-
structed, only 42 km are paved. The paved sections are narrow, 5 to 5.5 m in
width and have-inadequate strength and are in poor condition. The road serves
the fertile Pa Sak River valley. The existing traffic volume is between about
300 and 700 vehicles per day, of which 80 percent is trucks and buses.
4.09      The new road will be constructed with a two-lane bitumen pavement
6.5 m wide and with 2.5 m wide shoulders.   A total of 82 bridges will be built
and the road level raised to provide adequate drainage.



- 12 -
4.10      As the Government wished to commence construction of this road as
soon as possible, it awarded contracts for all four sections, towards the end
of 1967, on the basis of international competitive bidding, following the
Bank's procedures. The Bank will not finance any construction expenditures
incurred prior to the signing of the loan agreement.
Design Standards
4.11      The design standards for the project roads are in accordance with
the Department of Highway's standards shown in Table 4. The Bang Pa In-Nakorn
Sawan Road is to be Class P(l) and the Saraburi-Lomsak Road is to be Class P(2);
these standards are reasonable for the design traffic volumes and the terrain.
Right-of-Way
4.12      Acquisition of right-of-way is almost complete on the Saraburi-Lomsak
Highway. It is intended to start acquisition on the other road as soon as
financing has been secured. No serious acquisition problems are anticipated
and this view is supported by experience on the past two highway loan projects.
C.   Consulting Services
4.13      The Danish consulting engineers, KAMPSAX, have completed the detailed
engineering of the Bang Pa In-Nakorn Sawan Road with the exception of the de-
sign of the Chao Phraya River bridge at Nakorn Sawan; this design is now in
progress and should be completed by July 1968.   The bridge represents less than
3 percent of the total cost and adequate information has been obtained to en-
able reliable cost estimates to be made. Design of the road has been financed
under the First Highway Project 341-TH.   Supervision by KAMPSAX of its construc-
tion will be financed under the proposed project.
4.14     The design of the second road, Saraburi-Lomsak, was financed by US-
AID and carried out by the American firm, De Leuw, Cather & Company; the same
firm will undertake construction supervision under the proposed project.
4.15      The Government is selecting, in agreement with the Bank, 635 km of
feeder roads on the basis of a feeder road study, recently completed by the
UK firm of consultants, T.P. O'Sullivan and Partners, which was financed under
the First Highway Project, 341-TH. The Government will choose, in consultation
with the Bank, a firm of consultants with whom to negotiate a contract to carry
out the detailed engineering, which will be financed under the proposed project.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the above
procedure of retaining consultants.
4.16      The Government is undertaking a transport coordination study, which
is to be financed by USAID, and which is expected to be completed in the
second half of 1969. During negotiations the Government confirmed that (a)
the study would be carried out by consultants in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with the Bank, (b) the Bank will be given an opportunity of
reviewing the progress of the study and (c) the Government will discuss with
the Bank the findings of the study and a program for their implementation.



- 13 -
D.   Training Program
4.17      An amount of US$ 200,000 is included in the proposed project to
continue the financing of the foreign exchange cost of overseas training
courses after the Closing Date (June 30, 1968) of the First Highway Project,
341-TH, from which the courses are at present being financed. Additional
courses are proposed for about 20 selected professional and technical staff
and cover specialized subjects such as traffic and soils engineering. The
Department of Highways will prepare, with the assistance of consultants, a
program of overseas training covering the types and numbers of courses, re-
lated to the needs of the Department, their duration, the countries and types
of institutions where they are to be held, and the qualifications and selec-
tion of the trainees. The Bank will be given an opportunity to comment on
the training program (see also para. 3.08).
E.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.18      The cost estimates for construction have been prepared by consultants
on the basis of detailed engineering carried out, or reviewed, by them within
the last two years. They are considered to be reliable. The engineering has
been completed with the exception of a small part of the Bang Pa In-Nakorn
Sawan Highway (para. 4.13). On the Saraburi-Lomsak Highway the estimates
have been obtained from the contracts, already awarded. The unit prices for
the other road have been obtained from recent contracts for similar work and
therefore reflect price levels current in early 1968.
4.19      The cost estimates for the engineering supervision of construction
have been obtained from existing contracts between the Government and the
consulting firms. The cost of engineering for the 635 km of feeder roads
has been estimated on a "per km" basis.
4.20      The estimated costs of the project, and of the foreign exchange
component, are detailed in Table 5 and are summarized below:
Total Cost             Foreign
(gmii.)      (us$ mil)   -(uss mil.)
1.   Construction and Improvement          970          46.6     22.3     (48%)
2.   Engineering and Supervision           105           5.0      2.5     (50%)
(Consultants)
3.   Technical Training Program              4           0.2      0.2
4.   Contingency Allowances                162           7.8      3.8
(a)  On Item 1, 15%           145
(i) 10% quantity
(ii)   5% price
escalation
(b)  On Items 2 & 3, 15%       17
(c)  Rounding off                  _0.2
Total          1 241           59.6     29.0



4.21      The 48 percent foreign component for construction has been calculated
by the consultants on the assumption that the work will be carried out by
foreign contractors. This percentage would be used for disbursement purposes
and would not be varied even in the event of one or more contracts being
awarded to local contractors. Out of 16 contracts awarded on the two current
Bank projects over the last two years, only one contract was awarded to a
Thai contractor, whose progress has been disappointing, while two contracts
were awarded to joint Italian/Thai contractors who are performing satisfac-
torily. All the rest of the contracts were awarded to foreign contractors.
All four contracts so far awarded (for the Saraburi-Lomsak Highway) on the
proposed project have been to foreign firms. At present a number of foreign
firms are engaged on roadworks in Thailand, including firms from Italy, USA,
Germany, Sweden, Korea, China (Taiwan), Israel and Japan. The 50 percent
foreign component for engineering services has been estimated from existing
contracts with consultants.
4.22      A 15 percent allowance for contingencies has been made for all items.
On the construction, this is made up of 10 percent for quantities, which is
normal for estimates based on detailed engineering, and 5 percent for price
escalation. Although the construction included in the project will have a
duration of 4 years, contracts have already been awarded for the Saraburi-
Lomsak Highway, accounting for 40 percent of the work, and contracts for the
Bang Pa In-Nakorn Sawan Highway should be let by the end of 1968. The 5 per-
cent allowance for price escalation should, therefore, cover likely price
rises. A 15 percent contingency allowance for the items for engineering and
supervision and training is considered reasonable.
F.   Project Execution and Finance
4.23      The Department of Highways will be in charge of the execution and
administration of the project. A Deputy Director General has been designated
with specific responsibility for the two current projects and. he will be res-
ponsible also for the new project; this arrangement is working satisfactorily.
The construction and improvement works already in progress are being carried
out by contractors on unit price contracts awarded after international com-
petitive bidding; during negotiations assurance was obtained that this pro-
cedure will also be followed for the remaining contracts to be awarded. The
engineering for the construction has been carried out by consultants, who
will also supervise the works. The engineering for future projects will also
be carried out by consultants.
4.24      The Government has been informed that the Bank would not finance
construction retroactively. Although contracts have already been awarded for
the Saraburi-Lomsak Highway, only about 15 percent of the total estimated
expenditure on that road is expected to be incurred before the signing of the
loan agreement; the amount of the loan has been calculated so as to exclude
such expenditure.
4.25      The duration of the project would be 41½ years.  A forecast of the
annual disbursements, assuming the loan becomes effective in mid 1968 would
be:



- 15 -
(in US$ million)
1968      1969      1970       1971      1972      Total
4.5       9.5       9.0        4.0       2.0       29.0
4.26      The local currency requirements would be met by the Government's
budget.  The Government has made satisfactory arrangements for local currency
provisions on the current projects and it is unlikely that difficulties will
arise in the future.
4.27      Disbursements would be made, as in the present projects, by reim-
bursing the Government 48 percent of payments made to the contractors, rep-
resenting the presently estimated foreign exchange component of cost. Such
percentage would be decreased in the event of an increase of project cost,
to spread disbursements over the period of execution of the project. For
consulting services, reimbursements would be made for the actual payments in
foreign currency made to the consultants. For the technical training program,
the reimbursements would be for the actual costs of overseas travel, subsis-
tence and training fees. The claims for disbursement would be supported by
receipts and, in the case of construction, also by certificates from the con-
sultants. The Department of Highways has an internal audit organization and
the Department's accounts are also audited by the Government Audit Department.
Any overall surplus remaining in the loan account would be cancelled.



- 16 -
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.   General
5.01      The growth of road transport during the last 10 years has been
striking in terms of both the rapid increase in traffic and the geographical
expansion of activities. The rate of development of road transport has far
outpaced both the rest of the transport sector and the performance of the
overall economy.
5.02      The two roads included in the proposed project are among the highest
priority items in the Government's highway investment program. Because of the
relatively large volumes of existing traffic on the two roads, the improvement
of each is justified on the basis of savings in transport cost resulting from
the proposed investment. The estimated overall rates of return are 25 percent
and 27 percent. Where necessary, calculations of rates of return were made on
individual sections of each road with low traffic volume and/or high construc-
tion cost. Such estimates showed that the lowest yield section of the two
highways would still produce a rate of return of nearly 15 percent.
5.03      To assess the savings in transport costs, the costs of vehicle
operation were estimated for each individual road section on the basis of
the present and future physical road condition (see Table 6).
5.04      Traffic projections were based on different assumptions for each
road, as set forth in the more detailed discussions of individual roads.
Table 7 shows the traffic thus projected to 1991. Where temporary military
traffic renresents an important part of the annual increase in traffic,
it was excluded both from the base year traffic and from the traffic proj-
ection to ensure that the investments were justified only on the basis of
civilian needs.
B.   Bang Pa In-Nakorn Sawan Highway
5.05      This highway is a part of the main trunk route between Bangkok and
the city of Chiengrai near the Burmese border in the north. Work on the 605
km northern section between Nakorn Sawan and Chiengrai is being financed
under the previous Bank loan; 418 km are being constructed and feasibility
studies, and revision of detailed engineering, are being carried out on the
remaining 187 km (see para. 4.07).
5.o6      The Droject section traverses the alluvial plains of the Chao
Phraya River and its tributaries, known geographically as the Central Plain.
The region has extremely fertile soil, abundant water and is the granary of
Thailand. Nearly one-third of the total population is concentrated in the
region. This section of the north-south trunk highway is therefore one of
the most important in the country in terms of both the traffic volume carried
and the economic potential of the area served. The daily traffic volume on
the section varies between about 7,000 vehicles in the southern part and about
900 vehicles in the north near Nakorn Sawan.



- 17 -
5.07      The distance on the existing road between Bang Pa In and Nakorn
Sawan, through Saraburi, Lopburi and Chainat, is about 290 km; this would
be shortened by a little more than one-third, or to about 190 km, by the
proposed new direct highway. The new highway would also make it possible
to defer increasing the capacity of the existing.highway section between
Bang Pa In and Saraburi which, in addition to the north-south traffic,
serves the local traffic between Saraburi and Bangkok, as well as traffic
to and from the north-eastern region in general on the "Friendship Highway"
(Saraburi-Korat).
5.08      The proposed construction of the direct highway was decided on the
basis of the consultants' detailed economic and traffic analyses of five
alternative solutions. The proposed new alignment is the best solution in
terms of both the benefits accruing to the diverted traffic and the services
to be provided to the zone of influence of the existing as well as the new
alignments.
5.09      The consultants' origin-and-destination survey indicated that about
25 percent of the 1966 volume of daily traffic on the Bang Pa In-Saraburi
section of about 7,000 vehicles represents through traffic between the Bangkok
area and Chainat and further north, which would be diverted to the new direct
section. There would also be a daily traffic volume of about 700 vehicles
between Bangkok and Ayuthaya/Angthong area, presently using partly the Bang
Pa In-Saraburi Highway and partly the deteriorated existing road, which would
be diverted to the new road. In addition, the traffic of about 300 vehicles
per day between Bangkok area and the Supanburi/Singburi area, which now use
the round-about connection through Nakorn Pathom would be diverted to this
road, saving on an average about 75 km. The total volume of diverted traffic
therefore, would be about 2,800 vehicles a day on the basis of the 1966 traffic.
5.10      The annual rates of increase in the traffic volume are estimated
at 10 percent between 1966 and1976, 7 percent for 1976-1981 period and 5 per-
cent thereafter. The proportion of heavy vehicles at present is about two-
thirds of total traffic volume; the proportion is expected to decline to
about one-half by the latter half of the 1980's.
5.11      The project would produce three major types of benefits.   First,
traffic diverted from the existing roads would save driving distance. This
is estimated to produce a saving of US$ 5.9 million in 1971, the first year
of operation of the new highway.
5.12      Second, the higher standards of the new road would yield savings
in the unit cost of vehicle operation, which in total are estimated to be
over USt 3.8 million in 1971.
5.13      Third, the diversion of a part of the traffic on the Bang Pa In-
Saraburi section of the existing highway to the new highway would make it
possible to nut off the planned expansion of the capacity of the existing
road section. The traffic on the Bang Pa In-Saraburi section is expected
to grow to a level that will require expansion of the present 2-lane facil-
ities into a 4-lane highway by about 1970 if the proposed short-cut highway
is not built and. a part of the traffic is not diverted. With the construction



- 18 -
of the proposed highway, the 4-lane facilities on the Bang Pa In-Saraburi
section would become necessary only in 1973. Delaying construction by 3
years results in benefits in the form of "interest saved" on the estimated
cost of the 4-lane highway construction of about US$ 12 million equivalent.
This would be at least US$ 1.2 million per annum assuming 10 percent interest.
5.14      Deducting the additional maintenance cost of the new highway of a
little less than US$ 250,000 a year from the forecast savings as outlined
above, the total net benefits of this project road, discounted over its
estimated economic life of 20 years, would produce a rate of return of
25 percent.
5.15      The new direct section between Bang Pa In and Chainat will traverse
an area where the railway service is not available whereas the existing align-
ment follows more closely the State Railway's Northern Line, crisscrossing the
latter at a number of points. This means that the project road would not com-
pete for traffic with the railways for short distance traffic. However, the
project investment may make long distance road transport, for instance traffic
between Bangkok and Lampang in the north, more competitive with the railway
transport.  It is not possible to determine at this time the extent of traffic
diversion from rail to road after the completion of the direct highway, nor
the proportion of the diverted traffic which may be regarded as economic di-
version. The benefits estimates therefore exclude any such possible additional
benefits.
C.   Saraburi-Lomsak Highway
5.16      This highway will link Saraburi, where the existing north-south
trunk highway (Bangkok-Chiengrai) joins the Friendship Highway, with Lomsak
on the East-West Highway which runs west to Pitsanuloke, Sukhothai and Tak
where it meets again the north-south trunk highway. It will pass through
the agricultural valley along the Pa Sak River.
5.17      The existing route between Saraburi and Lamnarai (138 km) is over
a circuitous road via Lopburi. The proposed project includes the construc-
tion of an 88 km direct connection between Lamnarai and Saraburi reducing the
travel distance by 50 km. The existing route between Lamnarai and Lomsak
(198 km) is an inferior gravel road, a large part of which is closed during
the rainy season. Only the northernmost section between Lomsak and Wangchompu
(55 km) is passable in all seasons; even this section, however, is inadequate
in width, surface conditions and strength for heavy vehicles.
5.18      The area is indirectly served by the State Railways' Northern Line
which is connected with the highway by an 80 km feeder road from Tapanhin
station to Wangchampu and by the East-West Highway between Pitsanuloke and
Lomsak (150 km).  However, due to its location, the railway hardly provides
adequate services to the region to be developed by the improvement of the
highway. There is therefore little basis to expect real competition between
road and railway transport in this region. It is likely that much of the



- 19 -
traffic to and from the region presently moved by the railway may be diverted
to the road in the first instance, but an overall development of the region as
a consequence of the road construction would ultimately benefit the railway as
well, provided the latter improves its service.
5.19      The road's. service area is rich in agricultural potential which
includes livestock and forestry. At present about 2,500 km2 of land is
under crops. This is only about one-quarter of the land area suitable for
cultivation. The annual rainfall averages between 1,200 mm and 2,000 mm,
but most of the rainfall is concentrated during the period from June to
November; small scale irrigation facilities are required for adequate
cultivation and they are being planned.
5.20      The region has a relatively low average population, mainly because
of its isolation due to inadequate transport facilities. The proposed road
project would make possible a considerable inflow of population into the
region, such as occurred, for example, in the Petchaboon province where the
population has increased by 36 percent during the past seven years since
the completion of the East-West Highwayr.
5.21      To coordinate with the road construction, the Government is currently
prepnaring a development program for the Pa Sak Valley region, including improve-
ment of cropping patterns, the organization of agricultural credit, cooperative
and marketing services and the construction of feeder roads and small irrigation
facilities. The tentative estimate of the program cost is US$ 2.5 million
equivalent for the next 5 years. However, the major impetus for development
is likely to come from the spontaneous efforts of the people affected by the
improved highway similar to that which took place along the East-West Highway.
5.22      Although the existing road is bad and circuitous, the daily traffic
volume at present ranges between 270 and 720 in different sections.    The
growth of the traffic during the past 5 years has ranged between 10 and 30
percent per annum on different sections with a weighted average of about
20 percent.
5.23      In projecting future traffic on the proposed road, it is assumed
that the existing traffic would grow at a weighted average of only about
15 percent per annum until the early 1970's. Thereafter the growth would
slow down to about 7 percent per annum by the latter half of the 1980's.
Because the new road will attract more investment and immigration, there
would be a considerable volume of generated traffic estimated to represent
an additional 5 percent growth during the first 10 years. The present traffic
composition of 80 percent heavy vehicles and 20 percent light vehicles is
estimated to change to a 55 to 45 ratio by about 1990.
5.24      Savings in transoort cost would take two forms:   reduction in
vehicle operating cost per km and reduction in per-trip cost due to shortened
distance. For the year 1971, which will be the first year of operation of the
new roads, the savings in vehicle operating costs would total US$ 5.5 million.
The savings in per-trip cost resulting from the reduction of a little over
50 km in driving distance would amount to about US$ 1.3 million in 1971. No
material change in the total maintenance outlay is anticipated on this road



- 20 _
after the improvement. The maintenance cost on the improved section would
become lower than now, but the additional maintenance requirement for the
new direct section of road between Lamnarai and Saraburi would tend to absorb
the savings. The rate of return from the two types of savings is 27 percent.
D.   Consultants' Studies
5.25      The Government will choose, in consultation with the Bank, about
635 km of feeder roads for detailed engineering from the 2,000 km recently
studied by the consultants. In most cases the need is to improve existing
very low standard roads or tracks which are inadequate for existing traffic
and are a major factor inhibiting development in their service areas. In a
few cases new roads are required in potentially productive areas where no
roads exist.



- 21 -
6.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.o0      The First and Second Bank-financed highway projects in Thailand are
satisfactorily underway, and have prepared the way for the proposed Third Bank
Project. Consultants are continuing to advise the Department of Highways on
matters arising from its reorganization, and in the planning, construction
and maintenance of the country's highway system. Technical training programs
for Thai personnel have been instituted both in Thailand and abroad. The
Department has largely withdrawn from force account construction, and con-
sulting engineers are employed for the design and supervision of the larger
construction works. Considerable interest is being shown by international
contractors in bidding for highway construction work, resulting in efficient
and economic execution of projects.
6.02      The feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the proposed
Third Highway Project have been carried out by consulting engineers financed
partly by the first highway loan. Cost estimates are realistic, and the pro-
ject is well conceived and technically sound.
6.03      The improvement and construction of the roads included in the pro-
ject are justified economically from the resulting reduction in transportation
costs. The estimated rates of return on the two roads are 25 percent and 27
percent.
6.o4      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points: (i) the carrying out of a Transport Coordi-
nation Study (see para. 4.16); (ii) adequate funds being made available for
maintenance of the road system (see para. 3.14); and (iii) the services of
qualified consultants in connection with the project (see paras. 4.13, 4.14
and 4.15).
6.05      The project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 29 million
equivalent with a term of 20 years including a 4½-year period of grace.
May 3, 1968



THAILAND                       TABLE 1
TIIIRD HIGHIAY PROJECT
MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION, COMPOSITION AND GROWTH
A, National Totals
1959           1964      1965       1966
Cars                     42,800         73,700    83,145      96,57v
Buses                    12,800         23,500     17,902     18,617
Trucks                   28,500         62,200     64,485     79,105
Special Vehicles          3,600           9,100     9,693     12,013
Total:         87,700        168,500   175,225    206,311
B. Bangkok-Thonburi Municipal Area
Cars                     34,300         58,800    66,926      75,870
Buses                     2,100          2,100     3,438       3,137
Trucks                   12,800         19,400     23,190     27,638
Special Vehicles          1,000          2,900      3,338      4,321
Total:         50,200         83,200    96,892    110,966
C. Rest of Country
Cars                      8,500         14,900    16,219      20,706
Buses                    10,700          21,400    14,464     15,480
Trucks                   15,700         42,800     41,295     51,467
Special Vehicles          2,600           6,200     6,220      7,692
Total:         37,500         85,300    78,198      95,345
D. Average Anual Rates of Growth 1959-1964-1966
Bangkok Rest of Country         National Totals
1959-66     195            1959-64  1964-66   1959-66
%1,         %T %                    %        T
Cars                       12          14              11       15       12
Buses                       6           6              13      -10        6
Trucks                     12          19              17       14       16
Special Vehicles           24           17             20       16       19
Average:           12          l1              14       11       13
Source: Department of Highways



TABLE 2
THAILAND
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Civilian Consumption of Motor Fuels
(million liters)
Gasoline                   Diesel Oil*-
(index)                  (index)
1955                277           100           93         100
56                 315          114          115         124
57                 378          136          136         146
58                413           149          156         168
59                446           161          207         223
60                471           170          280         301
61                478           173          349         375
62                491           177          451         485
63                553           200          556         598
64                581           210          737         792
65                622           225          931        1001
66                672           243         1191        1281
(Estimated) 67                720           260         1464        1574
* There is no accurate record of the proportion consumed for
transport and non-transport purposes. The best estimate
available is that in recent years about three-quarters of
the total consumption is accounted for by transport users.
Source: Shell Company of Thailand Limited



TABLE 3
THAIIAND
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway 2bcpenditures
(Baht million)
2/                      US$ Million
Year   Maintenance    Administration   Construction   Total  Equivalent
1962       99               88              342         529       25
1963      153              121              436         710       34
1964      200              212              498         910       44
1965      254              201              551       1,006       48
1966      184.             3261/            995       1,505       72
1967      245*             36o*           1,613*      2,218*     106*
19683/    323*             436*           1,639*     2,398*      115*
(*) Estimated
1/ Up to and including 1965, Administration charges arising from
maintenance operations were included under the Maintenance heading.
From 1966 they have been included under the Administration heading.
2/ Administration charges include the cost of Special Highway police
patrols.
3/ Budget for 1968
Source: Department of Highways.



TABLE 4
THAILAND
THIRD HIGhWRAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Two-Lane Primary ant Secondary Hizhways (Rural)
1. Bridge width:                          8 m minimum
2. Vertical clearance:                    4.50 m
3. Design wheel load (pavement):          10,000-12,000 lb.
4. Design bridge loading:                 H 20 - S 16
5. Geometric Design Features:
Flat and Moder-     Rolling and     Mountainous
ately Rolling         Hilly        and Alpine
(a) Primar.y
Design speed (km/h)    80-100             60-80          50-60
Maximum gradient         4%                 6%             8%
Right of way (m)       60- 80             60-80          60-80
(b)  Secondary
Design speed (km/h)    70-90              55-70          40-55
Maximum gradient         6%                 8%            10%
Right of way (m)       40-60              40-60          4o-60
6. Roadway Features:
Primary                    Secondary
Class          S1                'S(2)
Annual equivalent
average daily                            below      above      below
traffic (A) / 8000-4000     4000-1500     1500       1500       1500
Suggested surface    high      inter-     inter-     inter-     inter-
type                         mediate     mediate    mediate    mediate
to low
Width of surfacing
(m)              7.00-6.50   6.50-6.00     6.00      6.00       5.50
Width of shoulder
(m) f at ter-
rain_/           2.50-2.75   2.25-2.50     2.00      2.00       1.75
Width o,f road
bed 2/               12         11         10        10          9
1/    ADT bas,ed:on 7-year traffic projection, using the followi.ng factors:
(a) fT'rucks and.buses (3T and over): 2 in flat and rolling terrain
3 in mountainous terrain
(b) -Allother motor vehicles       : 1
2/    Widths reduced in mountainous terrain
Source: Department of Highways



TABLE 5
THAILAiD
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimate of Cost
Foreign
Length    Total Cost        Component
(krm) (O mill.) (US$ mill.) (US$ mill.)
A. Construction and Improvement
1. Bang Pa In-Nakorn Sawan           195      600        28.8      13.8
2. Saraburi-Lomsak                   283      370 1/     17.8 1/    8.5 1/
Subtotal                      478      970        46.6      22.3 (48%)
B. Engineering and Supervision
1. Supervision for A.1 & 2 above               75         3.6       1.8
2. Detailed engineering of feeder
roads (approx.635 km at $2,250) 2/          30         1.4       0.7
Subtotal                               105        5.0        2.5 (50%)
C. Technical Training Program
(Approx.40 man years)                           4        0.2        0.2 (100%)
4        0.2       0.2
D. Contingency Allowances               (g mill.)
(a) On Item A 15% (48% For.Comp.)    145
(i) 10% quantity
(ii) 5% price escalation
(b) On Item B,15% (50% For.Comp.)     16
(c) On Item C, 15% (100% For.Comp.)    1
162      162        7.8       3.8
(d) Rounding Off                                                    0.2
Total                                1,2241      59.6       29.0
Total foreign exchange component US$29.0 million equivalent
1/ Excludes estimated cost of work being carried out prior to
signature of a loan agreement; total estimated cost (excluding
contingencies) 0 435 million (US$20.9 million).
2/ To be selected on the basis of the recently completed Feeder Road
Study financed under the First Highway Loan 341-TH.
Source: Consulting Engineers and Department of Highways.



TABLE 6
THAILAND
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs in Flat Country for Inter-urban Roads
(in US¢ per km; net of taxes)
Average Passenger Car         Ten-ton Capacity Truck
Types of Road                   Types of Road
Good      Average    Average   Good      Average    Average
Paved     Gravel       Earth   Paved     Gravel      Earth
Motor Fuel         0.41       o.43       0.50     1.14        1.35      1.59
Lubrication        0.02       0.03       0.04     o.o6        0.09      0.12
Tires              0.13       0.26       0.46     1.96       3.93       8.85
Spare parts        0.23       0.29       0.39     1.71        2.56      4.25
Maintenance labor  0.03       0.03       0.04     0.13        0.19      0.33
Depreciation       0.67       0.93       1.27     1.93        2.96      4.88
Interest x/        0.52       0.66       0.73     1.16        1.50      1.77
Drivers' wages x/   -           -         -       1.32        1.70      1.98
Overheads x/        -           -         -       0.20        0.20      0.30
2.01       2.63       3.43     9.61      14.48      24.07
Index              100        131        171      100         151       250
x/ Costs related to time
Source: Consultants



THAILAND
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Projection
(excluding military traffic)
Basea
Km     Year -      1971       1976      1981       1986      1991
Bang Pa In-Nakom Sawan Highway
Bang Pa In-Ayuthaya                    20     2,780      4,480       7,200   10,000-/   12,760    16,300
Ayuthaya-Angthong                      31     2,000      3,220       5,180    7,250      9,250    11,800
Angthong-Singburi                      34     1,350      2,170       3,500    4,900      6,250     8,000
Singburi-Chainat Junction              44     1,000      1,610       2,590    3,630      4,630     5,900
Chainat Junction-Uthai Thani Junction  21       660      1,060       1,710    2,400      3,060     3,900
Uthai Thani Junction-Nakorn Sawan      47       920      1,1480      2,380    3,340      4,250     5,400
Saraburi-Lomsak Highway
Saraburi-Ban Phu Kae                  1i4                3,200       6,400   11,300_/   141,400   18,400
Ban Phu Kae-Larnarai                   74       270        560       1,390    3,45o      5,550     7,300
Lamnarai-Wangchompu                   131       350        700      1,740     3,500      4,900     6,900
Wangchompu-Petchaboon                  21       720      1,450       3,600     7,250    10,200    14,300
Petchaboon-East-West Highway Junction  39       370        740       1,840    3,700      5,200     7,300
East-West Highway Junction-Lomsak       5       640      1,290       3,200    6,450      9,000    12,600
a/  1966 is used as the base year for both roads. For the Bang Pa In-Chainat Section of the Bang Pa In-Nakorn
Sawan Highway, the base year traffic is a hypothetical one, that is, potential traffic had the short-cut
section existed, estimated on the basis of consultants' origin-and-destination survey.
b/ Practical capacity of the highway would be reached about this year or a few years thereafter, at which time
it will become necessary to expand the capacity; benefit calculations for subsequent years are based on
1981 traffic volumes.
ld



THAILAND: PROPOSED THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS
|DIRECTOR GENERAL
|  DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL FOR ADMINISTRATION                                                                        DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL FOR ENGINEERING
GENERAL SERVICES               fINANCE               PROCUREMENT           HEALTH SERVICES                 PLANNING           LOCATION AND DESIGN            MATERIALS            LAND REQUISITION             TRAINING
DIVISION                 DIVISION                 DIVISION                DIVISION                    DIVISION                 DIVISION                  DIVISION                DIVISION                  DIVISION
P-rl Mnagement           Budgeting                Purbchsing               Heodg-trten and Field      Pl-nning and Prograoning  S.r.e.Y                 Testing Labartary        Land Vloqorin, Negol.tiaton  Manpwer Anwlyis
Records Management       Ac,-anting               W.retoaning               Medical ond Dentl         Stotistics               Loction                  Field Tasting and C-ntnd   and taqoisitian         Personnel Triniog
Mail and Messenger       Cch Management, Pay      Contracts and              Services                 Mopping and Printing     .enign 01 Roads ond      Mterias Research         Lard Recarda
Sernices                 and Pre-Audit            Pre-OalfliecBot  oa                              Traftit and Rood Saatry    Bridges                                         Lagal Seroices
Administration 01 Bank     Contractors
Fnanced High lt        In-entory Control at
Protects                 BuBilding and
Eq.ipmnnt
DEPUTY DIRECTOR      GENERAL FOR OPERATIONS
CONSTRUCTION             MAINTENANCE               EQUIPMENT             PROVINCIAL ROADS
DIVISION                 DIVISION                DIVISION                  DIVISION
Construction and         Maintenance bnspetions   Workshops                Mintenance, Consrutin
Impranemect              and Supervision        Parts Storage and Supphy  and Improvement t
Super.ision            Programs                Equipment Mnagement,       Pr-ncial Roads
R.pert. on Controct.r                              Insp.ctin cnd
SONGaLA                          PRAJUABRBANOOK                CPITSANCHIENGMAI                                                      PRAE           NKRAS   NHONoGEN                  UBOL        12 FIELD DIVISIONS
50 FIELD DISTRICTS
0
SOURCE Department of High.ays                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
September, 1967                                                                                                                                                                                                            (R)IBRD-3556     1
-4



.. M2!ng, ..... .....
Av
M.   H .. . , 9-       t ,
e.gnnoi                        I.....  /1-~~Sisoet  
.,       Tter t 3_ unru~~W dit  L.Uoei   Nokor 
.ho To k1 f t i  _oad
M'~~~~~~~'
,KompoeL,Sp e      N            H    W khoNkoeETWORK
., S-- % ) EX\SINGtchAboon  O TkiA  H 4 GHY
-- \|i,9i:hMPimr        under Oons trutk n or p roposed
t   KlongK klungi.   1v(,5   _S n rym
meg  Paipunueg t ChOiyopoom;JCha yo
j            Cht,n:  t   g < >       g                  > Choi
Th fe.iNgon S  Krabboei Cons__truto        and ipontoet  FIH  .ST
.PO  b      abu*i.Ct and e      e.o      PROJECT
. t?j   ,s*  0Woi   .'  b utdyadenreeigPRJC
j~~~~~~ 4                        Constrcto  no  imroveet TID
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0o
> ~ ~ ~ ~   *                    4;  Aig; rpo rt
''-NcS'''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ......
0 M,     0 D  I AN
API  56       _ .EXSTNGNAIOALHIIIAY
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p                .......
Roo We g S.. ngATIONALo ROEC HIGHWAYS        NTW      R
D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EITN NATh3A NUnJw X iKrWA Y\
%'_-Ps~U,o               - - - ~- - C r.r   n. onstruction and i pro poet   iSed 41T
>   .t Klong higO  ?   %_  -~~~~~ecodar
...    .No   ran   o3  i o           O Z5  0 7  loK
~~~~~X/ 0  2 5          s    i75 0y M
9   *ss .-  M  A; A ostrYctSoI..A  ipr
APRIL 1968                                 IB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROJECT J



