Document of                   FuSE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R"t No,. P-2833-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REOCONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR AN
ORCHARDS PROJECT
June 2, 1980
Tni _cmet ha a restricted dit butlo  ad may be used by recipints oy In the pefoance o1
tbdhr Otchd  ts. Its eoetnts may  t otherwie be dicloed witbout Wed DBk *Id*roa.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     Leu (Plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47  =  US$1.00
Leu 1.00  =  US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu  1.00 =  us$o.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1. Be-
ginning in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to
convert the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative
of the average cost of convertible foreign exchange.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI           -        Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP            -        Agricultural Production Cooperative
ERR            -        Economic Rate of Return
GEDM           -        General Economic Directorate of Horticulture
ICA            -        Intercooperative Association
IAS            -        State Agricultural Enterprise
(State Farm)
MAFI                    Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
SMA            -        Station for Agricultural Machinery
(State Mechanization Units)
UAC            -        United Agro-Industrial Councils



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
ORCHARDS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:           Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiaries:       State enterprises and cooperatives
Loan Amount:         US$50 million
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years, including a 3 year grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at 8.25
percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    Relending to State enterprises at 2 percent per annum
during construction and 4 percent after construction.
Relending to cooperatives at 3 percent per annum.  State
enterprises subloan maturities would be up to 17 years
including up to 7 years grace, and cooperative subloan
maturities would be up to 20 years including up to 10
years grace. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:         The project is a credit scheme through BAFI and consists
of (i) a 2-1/2 year tranche of Romanian investment commit-
ments for 29,820 ha of new orchards, (ii) 19 modern fruit
packing and controlled atmosphere cold storage facilities,
and (iii) technical assistance to help improve fruit
handling, storage, and processing and improve applied
research for mechanization of fruit production and harvest-
ing. The project would support the adoption of high
density planting technology in Romania. The project would
also support the Government's efforts designed to meet
unsatisfied domestic demand for fresh fruit which has been
hitherto suppressed due to shortage of local fruit with
the Government keeping fruit imports to a minimum to
conserve scarce foreign exchange. Incremental production
resulting from the project would reach 528,000 tons
annually. Per capita consumption of the types of fruit
financed by the project would increase to 71 kg by 1988
from the present level of 36 kg. The project is also
expected to create about 19,500 jobs in new orchards.
There is a small risk that fruit yields or quality would
be somewhat below expectations due to weather, lack of
inputs or problems in orchard management. However,
according to the sensitivity analysis carried out for the
project, this would not depress the economic return on the
project seriously.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Cost Estimates:                                       Local    Foreign   Total
…----…US$ million--
Apples                                67.8       17.8      85.6
Plums                                 27.5        8.1      35.6
Pears                                  6.4        1.7       8.1
Peach                                 30.8        9.1      39.9
Apricot                               23.9        6.5      30.4
Sweet Cherry                          16.2        4.9      21.1
Sour Cherry                           26.1        7.1      33.2
Storage                               22.4        8.5      30.9
Technical Assistance                    -         2.0       2.0
Base Cost                            221.1       65.7    286.8
Physical Contingency                   8.8        2.5      11.3
Price Contingency                      7.0       18.8      25.8
Total Cost                           236.9       87.0    323.9 1/
Financing Plan:                                       Local    Foreign   Total
------US$ million------
Bank for Agriculture and Food
Industry (BAFI) and
Cofin.nciers                        186.9       37.0    223.9
Sub-bo: rowers                        50.0         -       50.0
IBRD                                    -        50.0      50.0
Total                                236.9       87.0    323.9
Estimated
Disbursement:     Bank FY           1981      1982      1983      1984      1985
---------------US$ million -------------
Annual            1.2       8.6      19.8       14.0      6.4
Cumulative        1.2       9.8      29.6       43.6    50.0
Economic Rate
of Return:            About 27 percent
Appraisal
Report:               No.  2907a-RO dated May 28, 1980
EMENA Projects Department
1/   Including tax and duties of $1.6 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA FOR AN ORCHARDS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, with the guarantee
of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$50 million to
help finance an Orchards Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. Cofinanc-
ing of up to US$100 million is being sought, all from commercial lending insti-
tutions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. As preparation for the produc-
tion of a Country Economic Memorandum, an economic mission visited Romania
during June 1979 to collect information on economic performance and prospects
and to discuss the New Economic Measures announced in February 1978. The CEM
has recently been discussed with Government and will be circulated to Executive
Directors shortly. Country social and economic data are given in Annex I.
A. Long-term Trends and Development Strategy
3.        Over the past three decades, Romania has pursued a development
strategy designed to change the structure of the economy radically and to
create, through a high rate of growth, an industrialized economy with a level
and structure of production and consumption similar to that in developed
socialist and capitalist economies. The main features of the development
strategy have been (a) a high and increasing rate of domestic investment;
(b) development of a broad industrial base, with priority given to import-
substitution and manufacture of intermediate and consumer goods; (c) develop-
ment of local natural resources, including the reorganization and moderniza-
tion of agriculture; (d) balanced regional distribution of production and
incomes; and (e) training of a skilled labor force. This strategy had been
carried out through a system of comprehensive central planning and management,
guided by central party and government authorities.
4.        As a result, Romania's economic development since 1950 has been
impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and considerable structural
change.  According to official statistics, GNP has grown in real terms at an
annual average rate of about 9 percent. Per capita GNP in 1978 is estimated
to have been US$1,750, according to the Bank Atlas methodology. Since 1950,
investment has grown at an average annual rate of 13 percent, as a result of
which the share of gross investment in GNP has risen, reaching about 33
percent in 1976-80 plan period. Industry has been the driving force of
economic growth; receiving around 50 percent of investment, most of which has
been allocated to the capital goods industry. Industry has grown at more than
13 percent per annum over the past decade, with the capital goods sub-sector



- 2 -
increasing more rapidly than consumer goods. Industry has become the leading
sector, accounting in 1978 for about 50 percent of GDP and for 35 percent of
the labor force, compared with agriculture's 14 percent share of GDP and
33 percent of the labor force. With the transfer of labor from agriculture
to industry, the population has become increasingly urbanized   Standards of
living have increased substantially, not only because of the growth of per-
sonal incomes but also because of the provision through the state budget of
expanded and improved education, medical services, housing and social expendi-
tures of other kinds. Furthermore, Romania's integration into the world
economy has increased, as the level of trade has increased and its composition
altered.
B.   Recent Economic Developments
5.        During the first four years of the present Plan period (1976-80),
the Romanian economy has continued to grow at a rapid rate and has continued
its structural change. The average annual rate of national income growth of
8.4 percent was, however, below the planned growth rate of 11 percent, and
growth has been decelerating, falling annually from 10.5 percent in 1976 to
6.2 percent in 1979. This shortfall reflects in part the over-ambitious plan
targets and in part the impact of the 1977 earthquake. It also reflects the
emergence of a number of internal constraints, notably the pace at which
improvements in productivity and efficiency can be attained and the ability of
the economy to bring new capacity into operation as planned.
6.        During the current plan period, industry, exhibiting an average
growth rate of 10.2 percent, has strengthened its position as the leading
sector of the economy. As in the past, the growth of capital goods exceeded
that of consumer goods, and the fastest growing sub-sectors were metallurgy,
machine-building, chemicals and construction materials. In agriculture, the
performance between 1976 and 1979 was better than had been obtained in the
preceding decade, although plan targets were generally not met. Gross produc-
tion increased at an annual average of 6.3 percent compared with the target of
6.9-9 percent. Most of this growth occurred in 1976, since when production
gains have been small due chiefly to less favorable weather conditions.
7.        Energy has become a critical sector for the Romanian economy,
leading to a determined campaign in 1977, intensified in 1979, to reduce
industrial and private consumption of energy. Domestic crude oil production
has been falling rather than increasing gradually as planned, and coal produc-
tion increased by only 8 percent per year in the first three years of the
Plan, rather than 15 percent as anticipated. Because of difficulties in
bringing new coal mines into operation in time, and in spite of the success of
the campaign to restrain the growth of energy consumption, imports of oil more
than tripled between 1975 and 1979. In 1979, the Government published a
comprehensive energy development program for the period 1980-2000, designed to
make Romania self-sufficient in energy by 1990, largely through increasing
hydro power, nuclear energy, coal and renewable energy sources. This may be
optimistic given the very rapid pace of nuclear energy and coal development
which would be required to meet the target.
8.        Between 1976 and 1979 investment fell about 6 percent short of
planned levels. The shortfalls occurred chiefly in industry where the planned



- 3 -
annual growth rate of investments of over 20 percent could not be met, partly
because of the diversion of resources in 1977 to the repair of earthquake
damage. Industrial investment, in fact, grew by 13 percent a year--in itself
a very respective achievement. The shortfall in investment does not reflect
difficulties in mobilizing sufficient financial resources, but a number of
supply-related factors, in particular, capacity constraints of design insti-
tutes, shortfalls in the production of construction materials, capacity
constraints in the construction sector, and production shortfalls for some
domestic equipment.
9.        Changes in the level and distribution of employment accompanied the
growth and structural change of production. The labor force increased only by
about 0.5 percent per year between 1976 and 1979 and large intersectoral
shifts in the labor force continued. Between 1976 and 1979, the agricultural
labor force fell from 38 percent to 33 percent of the total labor force. The
outflow from agriculture, which is determined chiefly by the needs of non-
agriculture sectors rather than the ability of agriculture to compensate for
the loss through mechanization, appears to be leading to some seasonal labor
shortages which has led to the use at harvest time of student and other groups
to meet short term labor needs. The Government recognizes that the transfer
of labor has to slow down to some degree, unless agriculture output is to be
sacrificed, and is thus giving even greater emphasis to labor productivity
increases in industry. Between 1976 and 1979, labor productivity in industry
rose by 7.9 percent per annum, about one and a half percent more than was
achieved between 1971 and 1975, but still below the planned increase of 9.2
percent per annum. The changes in the structure of employment from lower
productivity to higher productivity sectors have increased personal incomes.
These increases have been compounded by the increases in wages which rose, in
accordance with the plan targets, by about 25 percent in real terms by the end
of 1979.
10.       The slow-down of growth during the current plan period reflects the
increasing maturity and complexity of the economy and the difficulties of
moving from a development strategy emphasizing growth through increases in
capacity to growth from using existing capacity more efficiently. As part of
its efforts to improve productivity and efficiency, the Government introduced
in January 1979 a number of changes in the planning and management system,
commonly referred to as the "New Economic Measures". Their main purpose is to
increase the responsibility of enterprises for implementing plan targets; and,
by extending the scope of enterprise autonomy, and by sharpening the impact of
financial rewards for success and financial penalties for failure, to provide
more effective performance incentives.
11.       The centerpiece of the New Economic Measures is the replacement of
gross production by net production as the major performance target, and the
association of net production targets with physical output targets as the
major indicators for measuring output. To reinforce concerns about net
production at the enterprise level, a new system of enterprise revenue and
expenditure budgeting has been introduced which links together evaluation
criteria, computation of income bonuses and penalties for over and under-
fulfillment of net production targets, and the tax assessment of enterprises.



- 4 -
The second major element of the New Measures is the modification of the
planning system. The changes introduced have two components; first, the
greater involvement of enterprises in the resolution of inconsistencies and
constraints in the planning process. Second, the measures increase the use of
contracts. Whereas in the past enterprises could make annual contracts only
after the finalization of the plan, in future they will be able to make
multi-year contracts which will form the basis for the first draft of the
annual plan. Both of these changes are intended to bring greater reality to
plans.
12.       The New Measures also involve important changes in financial flows
between the enterprises and the state budget. In the past, enterprises
retained very little of their profits, and transferred most, in the form of
taxes and other payments to the state budget. In future, enterprises will
retain a greater share of profits. The major payment to the budget will be a
"prelevation tax", which is calculated on the value of net production and paid
from profits, and the enterprise will retain a greater part of its profits for
distribution between funds for investment, working capital, housing, socio-
cultural activities and profit-sharing. The New Measures, however, are
explicitly not intended as a step towards "decentralization". Central planning
remains the foundation of the system and will not be relegated merely to
determining major macro-economic ratios and setting price or policy parameters,
on the basis of which enterprises would autonomously prepare their own output
plans. *The New Measures are, in fact, a conservative attempt to strike a
balance between the potential conflicts between extended enterprise autonomy
dictated by the grow>ag complexity of the economy on the one hand and a firm
belief in centralize( planning and control as the means of obtaining high
growth rates and structural change on the other.
C.  External Trade and Foreign Borrowing
13.       In foreign trade, developments have in the current plan period been
substantially different from and decidedly less favorable than those planned.
The five-year plan period envisaged growth rates of 13 percent per annum for
imports and 18 percent for exports in real terms, which implied increases in
current price terms of around 20 and 25 percent per annum respectively.
Between 1976 and 1979, in fact, imports increased at an annual rate of 16.4
percent and exports at 13.1 percent in current prices considerably less than
planned. In 1976 and 1977, imports grew more slowly than planned mainly
because of delays in implementing investment projects (thus limiting capital
goods imports), shortfalls in domestic production incorporating imported
inputs, and some running down of stocks of raw material and intermediary
goods. However, in 1978 and 1979, imports increased much more rapidly, by
more than 20 percent in each year. Export growth has been unable to keep pace
particularly on convertible trade and the annual trade deficit reached about
US$1.3 billion in 1979, which is 19 percent of total convertible imports of
goods and services. In addition to facing an increasing deficit with the
developed market economies, Romania's customary surplus with developing
countries turned into a deficit in 1978, because of continuing increases in
the volume and prices of raw material imports, in particular petroleum. The
unsatisfactory growth of exports is in part explained by the vulnerability of



- 5 -
Romanian exports to import demand fluctuations and import policies of the
receiving countries, and in part to continuing difficulties in meeting design
and quality standards and establishing marketing policies essential to extend
the foothold in highly competitive product markets.
14.       The current account deficit which rose to US$1.7 billion by 1979,
has been financed through increased capital inflows, with total medium and
long-term debts rising from US$2.8 billion in 1975 to about US$5.6 billion
dollars at the end of 1979. Most of the inflows have been suppliers' credits
and eurocurrency borrowings; Romania has borrowed almost US$1.1 billion on the
eurocurrency market since 1975, and has been able to lengthen maturities and
reduce the spread over LIBOR considerably during the period. The scale of
*           term borrowing available to Romania has not been sufficient, however, to
finance the current account deficit fully and the Government had to resort to
short-term borrowing between 1977 and 1979, instead of continuing its previous
practice of eliminating short-term debt. The net inflow on short-term borrow-
ing was particularly large in 1979, about US$1 billion, and by the end of
1979, outstanding short-term debt had increased to US$1.7 billion from US$90
million at end of 1976.
D.   Development Prospects
15.       In November 1979 the Twelfth Congress of the Party approved the
Directives for the preparation of the new five-year plan 1981-85. Although
they suggest the continuation in broad terms of the present development
strategy, they project lower growth rates than envisaged in earlier drafts of
the Directives and than those during the present plan period. However, one
major change is. the planned reduction in the share of investment in GNP, which
is projected to decline to around 30 percent, compared with 33 percent during
the current plan period; the growth rate of investment is planned to be only
5.4-6.2 percent compared with 13 percent in the current plan period. These
changes indicate that the government recognizes that a major issue underlying
the development path of the economy in the 1980s is the allocation of resources
between consumption and investment. In our view, this planned slow-down of
growth momentum is commendable for three particular reasons. First, there is
the need to allow Romanian consumers, who compare their economic position
increasingly with that in Western European economies, to share more fully in
the fruits of economic growth than the high investment policies of the past
have permitted. Second due to the growing complexity of the economy, its rate
of growth is increasingly influenced not only by the rate of investment but
also by improvement of productivity and efficiency, and as is now widely
recognized within COMECON countries--this cannot be accomplished without
tangible incentives translating into higher consumption. And third, as the
more recent empirical evidence suggests, the Romanian growth path is leading
close to the margin of absorptive capacity. It remains to be seen whether the
consumer goods industries have the capacity to increase production and to
improve their output mix sufficiently, and whether the capital goods indus-
tries can provide for the investment requirements of the consumer goods
industries.
16.       As the Directives and back-up documents prepared for the 12th
Congress make clear, the economy is becoming more dependent upon imported raw
materials and--at least temporarily--energy, and more vulnerable to sudden



changes in the terms of trade. The Romanian authorities, recognizing the need
to economize on the use of energy and imported raw materials, are currently
re-examining the composition of investment in a number of sectors prior to
finalizing the five-year plan towards the end of 1980. It is clear that to
contain the growth of imports to manageable proportions, domestic production
must be stimulated and the efficiency of input use improved. To finance the
increase of imports, exports must be increased, and export growth will require
both improvements in the sophistication and quality of Romania's industrial
goods and improvements in export marketing. Improvements in the planning and
management systems will be needed to ensure that all these interlinked goals
can be attained.
E.   Creditworthiness
17.       With the large increase in the current account deficit and the
associated increases in external borrowing described in paragraphs 13 and 14
above, the net debt-service ratio in 1979 was 7.3 percent and the gross ratio
(disregarding receipts from Romania's own lending operations) 12.1 percent of
total exports of goods and non-factor services. If convertible currency debt
service payments were linked to exports in convertible currencies alone, the
ratio comes to 20.4 percent. The rise in short-term borrowing in 1979,
referred to in paragraph 14, resulted largely from a rapid increase in payments
for oil and shortfalls in export earnings especially for agricultural products.
The Romanian authorities permitted the increase since they expected the high
current account deficit to be reduced significantly in the years ahead and, in
any event, it was not possible to expand longer term borrowings sufficiently
quickly. Provided Romania expands its medium and long term borrowing and
succeeds in its intention to curtail imports and expand exports, its credit-
worthiness is likely to remain sound and its debt servicing manageable, given
its strenuous development efforts within the context of a well articulated
plan which emphasizes economy in the use of imported inputs and an enhanced
export drive.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
18.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$1,502.6 million for twenty-six loans in agriculture, industry, power and
transport. Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during
1975, but this situation has improved considerably since 1976. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects as of April 30, 1980.
19.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending
continues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange
by providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has been assisting the



Government by helping to mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The
Bank helped to attract foreign commercial banks to provide $100 million co-
financing in August 1979 for the Second Livestock Project for which a Bank
loan of $75 million was made in April 1979. In addition, syndicated cofinanc-
ing loans of $200 million in total have been recently concluded for the
Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage project for which a Bank loan
of $70 million was made in April 1979 and the Third Livestock Project for
which a Bank loan of $85 million was made in December 1979. Through their
contacts with commercial banks with assistance from the Bank, and subsequent
negotiations with those banks, the Romanian authorities now appear convinced
of the positive value of cofinancing in the form of financial credits, and
have indicated their intention to seek similar arrangements for future proj-
ects. Bank lending also aims at supporting the Government's efforts to
introduce new industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and
production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary
electric power development. Marketing, especially for export goods, are also
emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture which is heavily
dependent upon weather and where productivity levels are still comparatively
low.
20.       A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for projects for irrigation, industry, power, transport, regional development
and a fourth livestock project.
21.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
analysis methodologies in various sectors, including industry and transporta-
tion, for 165 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually
since 1975 in collaboration with an academic institution in Romania. Addi-
tional courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses
are becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected for some projects
to begin to supplement the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning
authorities.
22.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they
will provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible finance
from other sources.  The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected
to constitute about 13 percent of Romania's total projected convertible
currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments
in 1980 would be about 5.5 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
23.       Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing almost all of the nation's food, the raw materials required for
agricultural processing industries and significant foreign exchange earnings.



- 8 -
In 1978 agriculture accounted for 14 percent of GDP, 33 percent of the labor
force and 14 percent of export earnings. The proportion of the total labor
force employed in agriculture declined from 74 percent in 1950 to 33 percent
in 1978, thereby releasing a large number of people for employment elsewhere,
in the rapirly growing Romanian economy. National income increased at an
average rate of about 9 percent from 1951 to 1978. During this period national
income in agriculture grew at a rate of 3.5 percent per annum. Agriculture's
share of national income declined from 28 percent in 1950 to 15 percent in
1978.
24.       About 14.9 million ha, or 63 percent of Romania's land area, are
used for agriculture. Of this area, 66 percent is arable, 29 percent is
grassland and 5 percent is used for orchards and vineyards. There are three
principal agro-climatic zones; the Plains Zone, the Foothills Zone and the
Mountain and Tableland Zone. The Plains Zone which is the richest agricul-
tural area, including all of the land in the Danube plains, includes 53
percent of Romania's arable land. About 64 percent of all arable land is
devoted to production of grain (mostly wheat and maize). Other crops include
sunflower, sugarbeet, soybeans, potatoes, vegetables, fodder crops, grapes and
fruit. Fruit is produced primarily in the foothills zone except for peaches
and apricots which are grown mostly in the Plains Zone. In 1978 crop produc-
tion accountd for 56 percent of total agricultural output, while livestock
accounted for 44 percent. In that year the livestock population in Romania
included 6.5 million cattle, 10.3 million pigs, 15.6 million sheep and 100
million poultry.
Sector Organization
25.       Romanian agriculture has undergone a major transformation following
the collectivization measures introduced since the Second World War. Today
agricultural production, especially crop production, is dominated by state
agricultural enterprises (IASs) and agricultural production cooperatives
(CAPs). For example, in 1978, 87 percent of cereal production was in the
socialist sector. Production by individual farmers and from small private
plots of cooperative members is now unimportant except for fruit and live-
stock. Agricultural mechanization stations (SMAs) play a major role in
providing machinery hire services. Recently a number of Inter-Cooperative
Associations (ICAs) have been formed through combining the activities of a
number of individual cooperatives. These ICAs are engaged in various large
scale agricultural operations such as pig and poultry production. In future
they will play an important role in fruit production.
26.        In 1978 Romania had 396 IASs with an average size of 5,100 ha and
a labor force of 660 people each. They farmed 2.0 million ha, equivalent
to 14 percent of all agricultural land. Other state agricultural units
extended to 2.5 million hectares, or 17 percent of agricultural land. In the
same year, there were 4,400 CAPs, with an average size of 2,060 ha and 550
members. The total area of land under CAPs was 9.1 million ha, equivalent
to 61 percent of all agricultural land. There were 709 SMAs which provide
machinery services to producers. Each SMA had an average of 140 tractors plus
a wide range of other equipment. Each working member of a CAP is allocated



- 9 -
a small plot (normally 0.15 ha) which he can use for production of crops.
Members are also allowed to keep limited numbers of livestock on CAP land.
About 10 percent of the land controlled by CAPs was used for individual
members' plots. Individual farmers number about 150,000 and own about 9
percent of total agricultural land. Most of their farms are in the more
mountainous regions. They use only 5 percent of the nation's arable land,
although they have 19 percent of the grasslands and 21 percent of the
orchards. They own 61 percent of all cattle, 14 percent of sheep, 12 percent
of poultry and 8 percent of pigs. Together with CAP plotholders they produced
54 percent of all milk, 59 percent of eggs, 41 percent of wool, 53 percent of
poultry and 57 percent of fruit in 1978.
27.       At the national level, the major State institution in the agricul-
tural sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI). MAFI
plays a major role in preparing the Five Year Plan for the sector and is
the supervisory institution for plan implementation. In each district, the
Ministry is represented by a general directorate, which is responsible
for all agricultural activity in the district including both IASs and CAPs.
Marketing is organized nationally under MAFI, with general economic direc-
torates responsible for processing and marketing specified commodities.
Foreign trade companies are responsible for the exports of the general
economic directorates.
Performance in the Agricultural Sector
28.       Although considerable progress has been made in developing agricul-
ture in Romania, the sector remains relatively undeveloped. Between 1951 and
1978 gross agricultural output increased at an average rate of 4.5 percent.
During this period the area of arable land has remained about the same but
crop yields have increased markedly. For example, the average yield of wheat
increased from 1.1 tons per ha in 1951-1955 to 2.8 tons per ha in 1976-1978,
while maize yields increased from 1.3 tons per ha to 3.2 tons per ha over the
same period. Livestock yields have increased while there have also been
significant increases in the numbers of all types of livestock. Milk yields,
for instance, increased from 867 litres per cow in 1950 to 1,968 litres per
cow in 1978. Nevertheless, crop and livestock yields in Romania are still
appreciably lower than those obtained in a number of other countries. While
agricultural production has been increasing, the labor force in agriculture
has been falling. Labor productivity has thus increased much faster than
agricultural output. In 1978 gross agricultural output per worker was more
than six times the level in 1950. Despite this substantial improvement, the
absolute level of labor productivity is still relatively low. Labor intensive
methods of production, such as hand harvesting of maize and the use of animal-
drawn carts, are still common, especially on cooperatives and in the individual
farm sector.
Sector Issues and Development Strategy
29.       The growth of Romanian agriculture has been constrained by several
factors, especially rainfall, lack of machinery and farm inputs and problems
concerned with organization and incentives. Rainfall in Romania is both low



- 10 -
and erratic, especially in the main cropping areas in the Plains Zone. Flood-
ing has also been serious in many low lying areas. Fortunately the soils
in the Plains Zone are good while there are excellent sources of water in the
Danube and its tributaries. Romania has therefore given high priority to
development of irrigation and drainage. The total area under 4rrigation has
increased from 200,000 ha in 1960 to 2.2 million ha in 1979. Government plans
to increase this to 3.7 million ha by 1985. By then 38 percent of arable land
would be irrigated.
30.        Serious shortages of machinery and farm inputs, especially fertil-
izers, insecticides and herbicides have been experienced. These shortages have
been aggravated by Romania's foreign exchange needs, for Government has some-
times exported fertilizers or restricted imports of other inputs needed by the
agricultural sector. Hitherto, Government policy has given much greater
emphasis to development of IASs rather than CAPs. IASs have been provided
with the best managers and have received much higher levels of investment
and supplies of tractors, machinery and fertilizers, while CAPs have been
neglected. In 1978 the level of investment per ha of IASs was more than five
times that of CAPs and they were therefore more productive than CAPs. This
neglect of CAPs has been one of the key weaknesses of Romanian agriculture,
for CAPs control more than 60 percent of all agricultural land. In 1978
Government decided to accord equal treatment to IASs and CAPs. This new
policy is to be implemented through the creation of Unified Agro-industrial
Councils (UACs) which are responsible for providing equal levels of service
and material inputs to IASs and CAPs. About 700 UACs have been established,
and for each one there is an SMA. Each UAC will be responsible for coordinat-
ing all agricultural activities undertaken by the IASs and CAPs for which it
is responsible. On average each UAC will be responsible for about 20,000 ha
of land. Implementation of this new policy is still underway and it is too
early to assess the effectiveness of the UACs. These organizational changes
are being complemented by changes in the structure of wages and incentive
bonuses. These changes, which link payments to workers to achievement of
profit targets, were introduced in 1978 under the "New Economic Measures".
These changes have already been introduced on IASs and their extension to
cooperatives is planned.
31.       Agricultural policy is formulated within the framework of a national
plan approved by Government and the Romanian Communist Party. For the 1981-85
plan, the guidelines forecast that national income will increase between 6.7
and 7.4 percent p.a., gross industrial production will increase in the range
8.0 to 9.0 percent p.a. and gross agricultural production at 4.5 to 5.0
percent p.a. Investment in agriculture in this period will amount to 155
billion Lei (US$8.6 billion), equivalent to 12 percent of total national
investment for the plan period. The main thrust of agricultural development
strategy will be to increase crop and livestock yields through improved orga-
nization, the use of more efficient techniques, especially greater mechaniza-
tion, increased use of fertilizers and other inputs, and further large invest-
ments in irrigation.



- 11 -
Agricultural Investment Financing
32.       The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Govern-
ment's specialized agency for financing projects in agriculture, irrigation
and food processing. As such, BAFI has been the Borrower for all Bank loans
in support of agriculture and would be the Borrower for the proposed loan.
BAFI was established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all
investment funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector.
It lends to both IASs and CAPs and repays the Government as it receives
repayments of subloans. BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal,
execution and supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff
located in Bucharest, in 39 district (judet) branch offices and in 92 sub-
branches throughout the country.  BAFI has thorough review and approval
procedures for all investment projects. In addition to BAFI's review, all
agricultural investments for more than lei 10,000,000 ($560,000) are reviewed
and approved by MAFI and those greater than lei 70,000,000 ($3.9 million) must
be approved by the Council of Ministers. BAFI also provides short-term credit
to, and maintains settlement accounts for, all cooperative and State agricul-
tural enterprises; and acts as fiscal agent for the Government for collection
of State revenues from these enterprises. As the Government's channel for
investment financing in agriculture, BAFI's primary source of funds is the
State budget; the Guarantee Agreement therefore includes a provision that the
Guarantor shall provide all necessary funds for the implementation and opera-
tion of the project (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02).
Bank Contributions in the Agricultural Sector
33.       The Bank's lending strategy is based on the findings of various
reports, including the Agricultural Sector Survey of October 1976 (No. 953a-
RO), the Basic Economic Report of March 1978 (No. 1601-RO) and a number of
recent appraisal reports. Beyond the provision of foreign exchange, the main
objectives of Bank lending remain to assist the Government in addressing the
problems of production instability and low productivity. In addition, in
appropriate cases, foreign exchange earnings or savings are an objective.
Attainment of these objectives will help to raise the level and quality of
domestic food consumption.
34.       With increasing experience in the agricultural sector and a greatly
improved relationship with the Romanian authorities, the Bank has been able
to make other significant contributions. A close understanding on technical
and policy matters has been attained in a number of fields, permitting
detailed discussions of projects at an early stage in project preparation.
Additionally, BAFI has decided to introduce the Bank methodology in its
economic evaluation of subprojects.  The Bank has made eleven loans for
agriculture totalling $691.5 million since 1975. The Giurgiu-Razmiresti
Irrigation Project, the first agricultural project financed by the Bank in
Romania, has been successfully completed and a completion report on this
project is under preparation. No reports of the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department have yet been prepared on agricultural projects in Romania.



- 12 -
The Orchard Subsector
35.       The total area under orchards in Romania was estimated to be about
400,000 ha in 1979. Fruit production, which amounted to 1.2 million tons
during 1976-1978 has shown only a slight increase in the last few years. This
stagnation in fruit production has occurred partly because Romania has not
until recently been replacing trees to maintain orchards in a healthy condi-
tion, and yields are consequently very low. For example, the average yield of
all Romanian orchards is currently about 3.5 tons/ha whereas modern orchards
should yield at least 10-30 tons/ha. The present low yields and level of con-
sumption provide considerable scope for major increases. In 1978, 57 percent
of total fruit production came from individual producers and plot holders on
CAPs while the remaining 43 percent came from CAPs and IASs. About 93 percent
of total production in 1976-78 was used for domestic consumption while the
remaining 7 percent was exported. Exports increased to 10 percent of produc-
tion in 1979. Major export markets are in Western Europe and the Comecon
countries. Of the amount consumed within Romania over the period 1976-1978,
about 36 percent was consumed directly by producers, 28 percent was sold fresh
and 36 percent was processed.
36.       Fruit is produced in Romania primarily for domestic consumption,
which during 1976-1978 averaged 44 kg per capita. Consumption of imported
fruit, primarily citrus, amounted to about 3 kg per capita. Consumption of
47 kg per capita is low by comparison with the per capita consumption levels
already achieved in 1972-1974 for many other countries, such as Greece at 106
kg, Turkey al: 100 kg, Spain at 98 kg, Bulgaria at 101 kg, Italy at 119 kg,
Portugal at 76 kg and Hungary at 67 kg. Consumption in Romania has been low
because of low domestic production and imports constrained by shortage of
foreign exchange. The quality of fruit available on the local market has also
been poor because of production and grading problems on the farms, and because
of inadequate fruit handling and storage facilities in the marketing system.
At present Romania has limited conventional cold storage capacity while it has
no controlled atmosphere storage. It has not therefore been possible to keep
significant quantities of fresh fruit for consumption in the off season.
37.       Government plans for fruit production reflect the recent shift of
emphasis of development strategy toward consumption. In keeping with this
change in strategy, the planning authorities have established (on the basis of
Romanian scientific and nutritional studies) consumption targets for 1990 for
a wide range of foodstuffs including fruits. The consumption target for fruit
and table grapes has been set at 129 kg per capita. To increase production,
Government plans to supplement production by private farmers with intensive,
large-scale plantings on IASs, CAPs and ICAs. A process of orchard intensifi-
cation begun early in the current (1976-80) plan period will be accelerated
with 70,600 ha. of new orchard plantings planned for 1980 to 1985. A program
to modernize 36,500 ha of the better existing apple and plum orchards would
also be completed during this period. Other Government plans for the subsector
include investment in conventional and controlled atmosphere cold storage to
extend the fresh fruit consumption season, new and modernized fruit processing
capacity and expansion of orchard nurseries.



- 13 -
38.       The market analysis and production forecasts indicate that fruit to
be produced from orchards planted during 1980-1982 under the project can be
marketed successfully. However, if Government completes its full orchard
development plan for 1981-85, production from new orchards to be established
during 1983-85 could create a problem of oversupply. Production from all
existing orchards and those planned for 1980-85 is forecast to reach about 2.4
million tons in 1985 and 3.3 million tons in 1990. When taken together with
about 550,000 tons of table grapes and 75,000 tons of imported fruit, available
fruit supply is expected to be about 3.9 million tons in 1990. International
comparison of fruit consumption levels discussed above suggests that demand
for fruit and table grapes in Romania in 1990 may reasonably be expected to be
in the range of 95 to 105 kg per capita. This is significantly lower than the
target of 129 kg per capita established by the Romanian planning authorities.
If it is assumed that domestic consumption in 1990 will be 100 kg per capita
and if the use of fruit for distillation remains at about the present level,
the 3.9 million ton production forecast above implies an exportable surplus of
about 800,000 tons of fruit and table grapes. Evidence indicates that 400,000
tons of all fruits may reasonably be expected to be exported by that year,
leaving open the risk of fruit oversupply of about 400,000 tons or 11 percent
of forecast production in 1990.
39.       While this analysis does not affect the project directly, it does
raise questions as to (i) whether plantings planned for 1984 and 1985, and
possibly 1983, should be made and (ii) whether related investments in new
orchard nurseries are required. Against this background, the Romanian authori-
ties should review their consumption and export targets for 1990 before under-
taking further orchard investments after the project. It has been agreed
that Government will carry out detailed domestic and export market studies,
full reports of which will be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1982, and
review these with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a)(iv)).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       An orchard project based on new, high density planting systems was
originally suggested by the Government for Bank financing towards the end
of 1977. Some preliminary data on the project were submitted to the Bank
in November 1977, and an identification mission visited Romania in October
1978. Romanian preparation reports were presented to the Bank in June 1979.
Following a preappraisal mission in September/October 1979, the project was
appraised in November/December 1979. A special mission visited fruit growing
areas and research stations in the Netherlands and Italy in January 1980 to
review issues of orchard technology. Based upon this work, the Bank has
discussed the project concept extensively with the Government and has made
significant contributions to project design. As a result of this mission's
recommendations, the project design especially for high density plantings has
been improved considerably through reducing the very high planting densities
for apples, pears and peaches proposed originally by the Government. These
modifications are expected to reduce the risks of more difficult orchard
management, lower yields, poorer quality fruit and shorter orchard life. They



- 14 -
have also reduced overall project costs by about US$6 million. Negotiations
were held in Washington in April/May 1980. The Romanian delegation was headed
by Mr. Ion Rusinaru, President of BAFI and included representatives from the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry and BAFI. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report - Orchards Project" No. 2907a-RO dated May 2R, 1980 is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project
41.       The project is a credit scheme designed to support increases in
Romanian consumption levels of fresh and processed fruits of seven species
(apples, plums, pears, peaches, apricots, and sweet and sour cherries) from
an average of 36 kg per capita for 1976-78 to about 71 kg per capita by 1988.
While oriented mainly toward the domestic market, the project would also
permit increases in fruit export where export opportunities exist. The
project would support application in Romania of modern, intensive orchard
technologies which are being adopted by a number of the more advanced fruit
producing countries. These technologies will generate earlier commercial
production and higher yields than traditional lower-density plantations.
Modern methods will improve labor productivity, and inclusion of irrigation
in most orchards will reduce vulnerability to water deficits experienced in
most summers. Modern controlled atmosphere cold storage facilities are
included to extend fresh fruit consumption into the late winter and early
spring. Technical assistance for handling, storing and processing fruit will
help to increase fruit quality and marketing, and that for production and
harvest mechanization will help to increase labor productivity.
42.       The project consists of (i) a 2-1/2-year tranche of Romanian invest-
ment commitments for 29,820 ha of new orchards, (ii) 19 modern fruit packing
and controlled atmosphere cold storage facilities, and (iii) technical assis-
tance to help improve fruit handling, storage and processing and orchard
mechanization (see Map). These investments would be undertaken between mid-
1980 and the end of 1982. The orchard components of the project comprise 89
percent of the proposed investment and would include about 120 orchard sub-
projects. Under modern high density technologies, apples would be planted at
average densities of 1,000-1,670 trees/ha, pears at 1,250 trees/ha and the
remaining project species at 500-830 trees/ha. These compare with classical
orchard densities of 180-300 trees/ha. Where technically feasible, species
and varieties would be combined within a single orchard to spread labor
requirements over a longer season. Apples, pears, plums and cherries would be
planted on sloping lands, generally in the Carpathian foot-hills, replacing
existing substandard orchards, hay pasture or low producing cereals. Peaches
and apricots would be planted in the plains areas of the southern and western
parts of the country replacing older substandard orchards or field crops. The
19 fruit packing and controlled atmosphere cold storage facilities would each
have capacity to sort and pack 15,000 tons of apples annually, 5,000 tons of
which would be retained in the controlled atmosphere cold store and 10,000
tons of which would be shipped to fresh markets or conventional stores else-
where in the country. The technical assistance component would consist of



- 15 -
equipment and training needed to improve the quality of fruit handling,
packing, transport, storage and processing and for applied research on
mechanization of fruit production and harvesting.
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The estimated total cost of the project is $323.9 million, including
$1.6 million duties and taxes, with an estimated foreign exchange component
of $87.0 million. The cost estimates are based on unit rates of work under
the Romanian system of administered prices. The cost of equipment and mate-
rials has been estimated on the basis of the prices prevailing in mid-1980.
Physical contingencies have been provided at an average of 4 percent which
will be adequate because the cost estimates are based on detailed production
models. Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs are based on an in-
crease of 5.25 percent for the second half of 1980, 9 percent for 1981, 8
percent for 1982, 7 percent for 1983-85 and 6 percent thereafter. Reflecting
experience with other Bank financed projects to date, price contingencies on
local costs have been taken at one percent.
44.       The proposed Bank loan of $50 million would finance 15 percent
of the estimated total costs and 57 percent of the estimated foreign costs
of the project. The balance of the project cost would be financed by sub-
borrowers' contributions ($50.0 million) and loans from BAFI and cofinanciers
($223.9 million). The Government of Romania would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The proposed loan would be made to BAFI with the guarantee of the
Socialist Republic of Romania, and would be for a term of 15 years, including
3 years grace, at an interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum. The Government
has, in principle, agreed to seek cofinancing of up to $100 million for this
proposed project. Judging by the response of cofinanciers to other Bank-
financed projects in Romania, it is expected that offers of cofinancing will
be obtained. The amount and timing of cofinancing will depend on market
conditions and amounts being raised by Romania on other Bank-financed projects.
It is likely that for this project cofinancing will be in the range of US$50-
100 million equivalent.
45.       BAFI would onlend these funds, together with its own funds, for
terms of up to 20 years including up to 10 years grace to cooperatives at
3 percent per annum and for terms of up to 17 years including up to 7 years
grace to State enterprises at 2 percent per annum during the construction
period and 4 percent thereafter. As in earlier projects, these rates result
in a positive spread over BAFI's financial and administrative costs in provid-
ing the loans. Government controls on prices have limited domestic inflation
to around one percent per annum. Thus BAFI loans under the project would be
made at positive real interest rates, on the same terms and conditions as are
extended to other borrowers in the agricultural sector.
46.       Financial analysis of individual species investments under the
project indicates that revenues from four of the seven species (apricot, plum,
and sweet and sour cherry, accounting for 42 percent of the project cost)
would not adequately cover debt service on these subloans. This is fundamen-
tally a problem of Romanian administered prices for the four species, which



- 16 -
bear little relationship to fruit prices in international markets and do not
adequately reflect the later maturity of these species and thus higher unit
costs of production. Under Romanian administered prices, the finan-
cial return for plums would be 2 percent; for sour cherries, 1 percent; for
sweet cherri;s, -3 percent; and for apricots, -15 percent. Given the nature
of the pricing system in Romania, these low or negative returns do not suggest
that the investments are uneconomic; indeed they show satisfactory returns in
the economic analysis. They do, however, reflect an underlying cash flow
problem in servicing BAFI subloans. In many cases, other operations of a farm
could probably carry the debt service on the orchard investment, and BAFI
would not lend without reasonable assurance of repayment. The question is one
of whether in the Romanian system the investment itself should generate
adequate cash flow for debt service. In order to achieve 5 percent financial
returns (which represent a reasonable level to permit servicing BAFI loans at
2 to 4 percent per annum) the price of plums would have to be increased by 12
percent, that of sour cherries by 18 percent, that of sweet cherries by 35
percent and that of apricots by 53 percent. The Government is aware of this
problem, and has agreed that the prices for these species would, by the time
of their initial production under the project, be established at levels
adequate to enable loan beneficiaries to service their subloans out of the net
cash flow generated from the orchards (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a)(iii)).
Project Execution and Operation
47.       The project would be carried out by cooperatives and State enter-
prises unde- agricul ural credit subprojects administered by BAFI, and BAFI's
branch offices would be responsible for overall supervision and monitoring of
subprojects. BAFI maintains detailed records of sub-borrowers' financial and
production results relative to subproject appraisal expectations and would
submit to the Bank quarterly reports (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). Since
necessary information would be available from BAFI's branch offices, the
incremental cost of monitoring project implementation would be negligible.
Technical assistance to the cooperatives and State enterprises carrying out
subprojects would be provided by the General Economic Directorate for Horti-
culture (GEDH) and other specialized units of MAFI under a well developed
program of assistance to such entities. NAFI would have the responsibility
for all necessary arrangements for international procurement. With the
growing complexity of quality control and fruit handling, packing, transport,
storage and processing and the need for orchard mechanization in Romania, the
technical assistance component would have a significant role in the project.
GEDH and its Research Institute for Marketing of Fruit and Vegetables would
implement the post-harvest portion and the Orchards Trust under MAFI would
implement the production and harvesting mechanization portion of the technical
assistance component.
Market Outlook
48.       The project would permit consumption increases of the seven main
fruit species from the suppressed level of 36 kg per capita in 1976-78 to
71 kg per capita by 1988. Taking into account concurrent investments in other
fruits and table grapes and planned imports of citrus and tropical fruits



- 17 -
equivalent to 3 kg per capita, overall fruit consumption would increase from
47 kg per capita to 95 kg per capita for the same period. Such an increase
in demand is reasonable by comparison with consumption standards in other
similar countries. The Romanians will support increases in domestic consump-
tion by adding conventional and controlled atmosphere cold stores to extend
fresh fruit availability through the winter and early spring. Although the
project is oriented primarily to domestic consumption, the Romanians can also
be expected to seek export opportunities to earn foreign exchange. By 1988,
exports could be doubled from their relatively modest 1979 level of 137,000
tons with the share of total production going to export remaining about
constant. This will, however, require the expected increases in the quality
of fresh and processed products. The technical assistance component of the
project will support quality improvements in products for both domestic and
foreign markets.
Audit
49.       BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures and
its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors from
the Ministry of Finance and to an annual audit by inspectors from the Court
of Superior Control which reports directly to the Council of Ministers and
the President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of its transactions
are satisfactory and BAFI's audited overall and project operating and finan-
cing results would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of BAFI's fiscal year  (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(e).
Procurement
50.       Equipment and materials equivalent in cost to the proposed Bank
loan of US$50.0 million would be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977." US$48
million of the items would be procured through international competitive
bidding, and US$2.0 million of equipment and training for the technical assis-
tance component would be procured through limited international tendering
after soliciting bids from suppliers in at least three countries. Romanian
manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower. The application of preference is not
expected to significantly affect the result of bidding on the proposed project.
It is expected that foreign suppliers would win contracts for about US$16.4
million (US$14.9 million under international competitive bidding and US$1.5
million through limited international tendering) of chemicals, cold storage
equipment, pilot plant equipment and laboratory equipment not manufactured in
Romania. Other items to be procured through international competitive bidding
(about US$33.1 million) are available domestically and, based on experience
with previous Bank-financed agricultural projects, it is expected that the
Romanian manufacturers would be successful in bidding for these items. An
estimated US$0.5 million of items procured through limited international
tendering is expected to be of Romanian origin. The Bank would not finance
construction works under the project; these would be carried out by the
Romanian Construction Trusts, which are experienced and familiar with local
conditions, methods and regulations.



- 18 -
Disbursement
51.       The Bank loan would be disbursed at the rate of 20 percent of the
amounts disbursed by BAFI for approved subprojects for new orchards and the
fruit packing and controlled atmosphere and cold storage facilities, and 100
percent of the expenditures for the technical assistance component. Disburse-
ment for BAFI approved subprojects will be made against certificates of
expenditure. Prior to disbursement, BAFI would submit to the Bank for its
approval (i) representative investment subprojects for the first three orchards
of each of the project fruit species and for the first three controlled
atmosphere storage facilities; (ii) any subproject for which the estimated
total cost is greater than lei 70 million (US$3.9 million); and (iii) a
commercial justification for larger orchard plantations (60 ha and larger for
apples and pears, and 100 ha and larger for other species) to be planted at
densities greater than the average for the project (Loan Agreement, Schedule
1, para 2(d)).
Environment
52.       The project will not increase the area under orchards, and a
marginal decrease in this area is expected as a consequence of orchard in-
tensification. There will therefore be no displacement of other farmland.
Adoption of modern practices for the lands remaining under orchards will have
a beneficial environmental impact through measures such as terracing and
improved water utilization which will reduce erosion. Pesticide and fertil-
izer use would increase under the project and could increase the levels of
pesticides, nutrients and salts in ground water and surface streams. The
impact of increased use of chemicals is expected to be minimized through
modern orchard management practices in their selection and application.
Modern irrigation management would similarly be expected to control the level
of salts in surface and ground water. The Government would ensure that the
project would be implemented with due regard to the environmental impact of
the selection and use of insecticides, fungicides, herbicides and fertilizers
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a)(ii)).
Benefits and Risks
53.       The proposed project would help support the Government's effort,
begun recently, to improve the quantity and quality of domestic food consump-
tion, a policy objective with which the Bank concurs. The level of domestic
fruit consumption in Romania should be increased not only on its own merits,
but also because of the changing role of consumption in Romania's growth
strategy. Reasons for supporting this greater emphasis on consumption have
been given in para. 15.  Annual incremental fruit production under the project
at full development would be 528,000 tons, including 235,000 tons of apples,
25,000 tons of pears, 62,000 tons of plums, 26,000 tons of sweet cherries,
38,000 tons of sour cherries, 98,000 tons of peaches, and 44,000 tons of
apricots. Most of the orchards to be established under the project would be
provided with irrigation and this would greatly increase both the level and
reliability of yields in contrast with the low and fluctuating yields obtained
from most existing orchards which are not irrigated. The project would also



- 19 -
improve significantly the quality of fruit available to consumers. The
project would include facilities for controlled atmosphere storage of apples
which would permit storage of fresh fruit for consumption in the winter and
early spring. Very little fresh fruit is available during the off-season at
present. The technical assistance component of the project would help to
improve the technology available for fruit processing, handling, storage and
orchard mechanization. The project would provide employment to about 19,500
people. Approximately 20 percent of these people would be employed full time
while the remainder would be employed on a daily basis during peak seasons.
The economic rate of return (ERR) to the project as a whole would be about 27
percent. The economic rate of return from the fruit production component, the
cost of which is $286.6 million, is estimated to be 27 percent, while the rate
of return from the fruit packing and storage component, the cost of which is
$35.3 million, is estimated to be 17 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicates
that very large adverse changes in project costs and benefits would be required
if the ERR were to fall to an unacceptably low level. For the ERR to fall to
9 percent, benefits would have to fall by 44 percent or total costs would have
to increase by 86 percent.
54.       Fruit production could be adversely affected by frost, excessive
rainfall, pests and diseases. However, the level of these risks is not high
in the fruit producing areas of Romania and their impact would be lessened
through certain project activities, including irrigation and improved control
of pests and diseases. The modern intensive orchard management systems being
introduced under the project would require careful management and adequate
supplies of farm inputs, including fertilizers, pesticides and fungicides.
The Government has agreed that it will provide to subproject orchards sufficient
fertilizers, insecticides, fungicides and herbicides to ensure the application
of sound agronomic and commercial practices (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a)(i)).
There is a small risk that incremental fruit production intended for export
markets would receive less favorable prices than anticipated, although exports
expected under the project are modest in relation to possible export market
opportunities and exports are expected to account for only 15 percent of
incremental production.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for Agricul-
ture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 2, 1980
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-21-                                                Page I of 5 pages
ROMAWIA - SOCIAL INDICATO0S DATA SHEET
ROHASIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (AOJUsTED A"lxACES
LAND ARi!A (TKOUSAX'D 50. ILY.)                                                   - ¶OST REC-ST ES-;A-) i
TOTAL             237.5                                                      ShmE          SA.E    N-EXT HLCKER
ACRICULTURAL      149.6                                   MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    IYCOYE         UJCONE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION C c   GROUP /d    GROUP /.
GNP PtX CAPI7A (US5)                    180.0       510.0    1750.0             2906.3      1942.6       3075.3
ENE5Y C DNSU"ITTIN PER CAPITA
(XILOGRAX'S OF COAL EQUIVALZ_T)    1342.0        3013.0    4036.0            2033.2      1646.7       2518.6
POPULA.'ON A:4D VITAL STA-'ST.CS
POPULATIOS, .CD-YEA.R. (MILL'IONS)    18.4         20.4       21.6
UUAII POPUL'ATION (PERCEST OF TOTAL) 33.7          40.8         .0              56.3        31.2         72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YtAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. AN.                         77.0         85.0       91.0             81.5        28.2         33.5
PER SQ. X.K4. ACRICULTURALL LAND    126.0       135.0      144.0            138.8       100.5         91.3
POPuLATION ACE STRUCTUR- (PERCENT)
0-14 YIS.                           28.2         25.9       26.0             25.6        35.4         33.3
15-64 TXS.                           65.1         65.5       65.0             62.9        56.3         57.5
65 YRS. AND RIOVE                     6.7          8.6        9.0             10.2          5.1          5.7
POPULATION GRO4WI RATE (PERCENT)
TO AL                                1.2          1.0        0.9              0.9         1.7          2.1
MFA3hN                               3.8          2.8.       2.5              2.6         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.0         20.0       19.0             18.3        27.5         31.4
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER TYOUSAND)        9.0          9.0        9.0              9.2          9.2         8.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.2          1.3        1.2               1.2         1.8          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TROUSANDS)         ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF' MR7ED YOKEN)    ..              ..          ..
FOOD A:hSD NU-RITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTICN
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            85.6         89.0      140.0            115.7       102.0         98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRUE.NTS)                    105.0       I1S.0       123.0/L          134.2       120.8        112.7
PROTEINS (GRWAS PER DAY)            81.0         92.0       96.ILI           95.4        80.9         70.3
OF W;NICH AIMAL A.'D PFLSE        24.0         28.0         ..             45.4        31.3
GIILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        3.0          2.4        1.0              1.3         5.1          2.5
:lgATR
LLFE EX?ECTANCY AT BIRTN (YEARS)    64.0           69.0       70.0             70.0        65.6         68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             75.7         49.4       31.0             31.5        45.5         20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE UATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAT1ON)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..                ..       69.4         73.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                ..       8531         94.6
RCRAL                                 ..            .         ..               ..        43.0         64.6
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..                         70.1
LIP                                   ..           ..         ..                          8.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..               ..        33.2
POPULATION PER PNYSICIAN             780.0/f      840.0/1   730.0             661.6      1343.2        981.8
POPULA'ION PER Nl'RSING PERSON       620.0/f         5. 90.0                  677.1       765.0        397.8
POPULATION PER 4OS?ITAL BED
TO-AL                              130.0/f      120.0      108.0            180.1       197.6        240.6
UREAN                               50.o7?       50.0       50.0                         60.2
RUTRAL                             620.0o?      770.0      730.0                       1055.0
ADlISSIONS PER ROSPITLL 3ED              ..        23.0         ..             15.3        17.3         19.2
HOUSINGC
AV'RACE S1ZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          3.2/h       ..               ..         4.*
L'R3AS                                ..          2.8/h       ..               ..         4.4
RURAL.                                            3.47i .h.                               5.1           .
ANL1A E 'StMER or PERSONS PEX ROCM
TOTAL                                 ..           .h   -..                    ..         I
URSdA.                                .           1.3/h                                   1.2
RItRAL                                 .          1.4h '                                  1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCtET
Of OUELLINCS)
TOTAL                                 *-         49.rl/       ..               ..        66.D
RURAL                                 ..         ds.o h       .. h                       85A
RURAL                                 ..         27 .0'r      .                .



- 22 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
ROMANIA - SOCAL ?t'4U CATOtS DATA SNUT
urrA K 6caouPZ  s (AS'ttD ALERACMS
- 0TSt lSCZir ESTMA%   l *
5SaME        SA7E      RIT RChEZ
*  -         NT "Cct"          CCAMISC    LlC<om           INCOME
19   lb      1970 lb rESA?! lb          UCIO5   7c   CROUP /d    GOU  /a
DUVCA?S'N
ALM    O LnOLLU.?T LATIOS
MLM2Y   :  -  U                      96.0A       112 0      L0.0              105. 7      10l 7        107.6
KAU                   101.0        112.0     1l1.0              107.1      U1O.0
M'ALZ                 95.0         114.0      10.0             108 .5        92. 6
SwCUDAAT:    T TAL                   240         -45.0      '52.0                .9        51.2   --  39.1
UI1E                  27.0         51.0       65.0              70.3        56.4
MTAL                  *2.0          36.0        9.0             62.2        *3.7
VOCTIONAL EKEOL. (7 01 SEC3DTR)  54.0               55.0       70.0              20.4        16.3
MWfL-TEACfZ RATIO
ML(AY-                               25.0         21.0       21.0             26.7         27.1
52chm3y                              16.0         18.0       19.0                          25.3
A3Lt LITEUCY  WA-E (YU!CIN)              -.            .,      96.0 o.                       6. 1
COKSU(TION .
PASSENCER CARS PS SEOUIAND
IOWLATLON                                                                    105.5         53.4         8.1
tADLO UECEIVEUS PER THOUSAD
FPOPLLATioN                         109.0        152.0      1*6.0            233.7       225.9         210.3
TV RUCEIVERS PU   0USA8ND
POPULATtGN                            3.0         73.0      120.0            146.0       102.6         117.7
AUEVSPAPER ("DAILY CEiUAL
ITrREST) CIRCULATI0N PR
TNOUSAND POP1LATION                  147.0        169.0      129.0                .         76 .5
CmlE,. ANNUAL ATKMDANCe  PER CAPIT   9.0             9.6        8.7,              6.4         3.6
tASOR FORCE
TTAL LASOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         9600.0        9900.0    1000.0.
nEMAU  (PERCEN.T)                  . 449          44.5        i&.6             32;3        24.5         27.2
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              .64.5          49.0        33. Q           25.8         26.9         23.6
1D(USTET (PERCENiT)                  20.5         23.0        35.0            33.1        30.6
PA2T1tC A?1ON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               - 57.1          56.0       55.9              37.6        33.8         40.1
.KALE                                  64.5         63.3       62.6              57.0        51.3.        55.7
FEMALE                                 50.1         49.0       49.1              26.0        16.3         24. 7
EC0MOMIC DEPENDLEXCT LT1O                 0.1          0.7        0.7              .1.0         1.3          1.0..
INCOME DISTRIBVUT10                                       -
PERCETr OF PRIVATE LlCOlE
XRCEIVED BY
tICHEST 5 P!RCZ.IT Of HOUSEHOLDS       .
HICHIST S'0  EXC!`T Or HOLSEHOLDS    ..             .. -       .              47.9        57.6
LOVEST 20 PERCEWr Or IOUSEROLDS        5.0 3.A .
WIdEST 40 PE?C!1Yr Or TLOUSEROLDS                                              15.4        11.0
.POVEXTY TU&CEJT RCR15
ESTIMATED ASSOL5._ POVEXTY INCOME
L£VEL (USS PER CAPITA)
kilt3ki
URAL..                                            . ..         ..
ESTI1ATED I!LATEVE POVERrY IMCGKt
LEVEL (US$ PER CW2ITA)
URSAN                                  ..           ..      378.0                ..      55n.0
RLUVAL                                                      376.0            436.1       403.4
ES'IMA-ED ?OPULA':CN SELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME ;17EL (PEtCET)
IllrtA L                               *       
URA.                           .      .  .          ..
RUA            ..                                 .   .         . .
Nor available
Noc applicable
NOTES
la    Th* adjusted ;roup averages for .ech indicacor are populatiov.-eighced geometric sansn, excluad   th6   e extreme
val.es of th, indicator and the aost populated co.ncry ta. .sh group.  Coverage of coumtrxes c,ong th*
Indicauors -i*pends on avalability of data and Is cat uolforu.
/     Znl.si oaher.se  note:. d4s !fr 19-C re!fr to any !ear beuweeo 15'9 aod 1961; for 1970, 'rwetn  1969
nd 19;1; an! for !cs. Recent Zst: -:e, bet.een 1974 *:d 197%
Sc Eur De;   ,   LUpp.r ?,dd1e Incou (S!136-2500 per carita  1976);   /c  HItgh Intcoe  (over 52500 per capita.
19?6);   ' ^  1960;    t  A     S.         /h  19e-o;   -1        estiG ate.
Met Recqnt !>Sti.sca of CV.P per capita is for 1976.
August, e979



-23-                                                                  NU
ntis w umuz ass                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3tTf 5 pages
Notes altheetii.data ar drawn fr.. soens. geevally audged themat sutheritative WAd reblS, It she4d ales be osted that thkey wm not be Interns-
t   an   carbl  bcMe o  th. lack of st-ekerdloed derinitioss sad conceptse useed tW different countries In collecting the data. The date are  nonetheless,
nusful to descr~ibe orders of ogaitdsad, indicate trends, and  hoek.eetseio  ostale ajo  dirffrenees ketwees csti
itsed.ustd gas  vergesfor each indicator are pposlation-weighted gecanbic moan, meolsding the estrem  Voales of the indicator sod th, met populated
coua~P1FFj~ijTS to lack of data, group averages of all indloators for Capital hurI.. Oil Raprters sod of Indicators of Accses to Vats, sod Excreta
Disposal, Housing, Incom Disetrihutiom sod Poverty for other costury groups are population-ei&tsd. geoetric noece vithout saluinon of the entroee valuses sod
inb relatin  avrgs  foe siatrt  aohr.teetV    e                                                                                                                b .t aflVisssoltin    f   zete'vloswn  onriste  eieeodn
Indctra      isao  h   ountry sod mrersee. grsups.
Ida AIVA (tiosesod sq.he.)                                                                dccess to bterets Disoa  Coect of RP lato)-tta.'ub.r  ad equal
wW o aleseace area colpr-islss land area aud  mSd entcer.                          UMwr of People (ttl   rho    srra)sre  b   ert                    dso also
V    =ZFutura  - Mest recat utestl        of agricoltural are. sed teporarily              Percentages of their respective popuations. Znorta disposal MW  laimneb
or peraesnatI4 for crops, pastures, market sod kitoeb  gardam  or to                    the collection sod dieposel, with se withat treatment, of hamm asecte
lie P. allow                                                                            sod  asete-cuater by eater-bormesysptems or the sun of pit privies and saile
GIFP F    CkPIA (us) - ap p-  apit.estimtes a  CWT-   moru   pi..installations.
pap pn  7675Th19l)aonvP er.o capthdaestit1e  Lat curren  e19etet7 price,             DWeI=tonamrrnsaice - Popula4tion divided by msnkr of practicing pbyeioian
mi1 lathhdUby ue                                                                                rseovrsorrtod-Vol  Ds Als  1767  bss)  U1l W l~cal school at seiversity level.
196o, 197,wad 1978 data.                                                                 o qi nr  Lr             Peremn - Population divided by outer of practiiogo nale
SHElY CMUOUHPIM PERC 1Pr1A - Adasul coosuaption, of comercial                                an sd  eals gratduate eursee, practical wanes, ad sssistant asroe.
I Coa:la   ilgnite, peroe,  atural ga  sd bydro-, =uIsa  sod Leo-                            ouain rHsiaoe  - tta. urb n,a                         ral-Pop'lation (total, urtc,
thealeletrici'ty)okl            ofcoLi equivalent per capita; 1960,                   and rural) hdivdedb   hiMepetv                e   f hosiabesvillen
1970, sod 1976 data.                                                                      P-bilc and prints general sod speialiced ioetpital sod rekabilitation centers.
Hospitals are esteblisheente pernoently staffed by at least one physiolso.
POPULATICN AND' VITAL STATISTICS                                                            istnblieb-ntn  Providing principally cuetedial car  are oct included, mRral
toaI7pltkoo.IGd-YIeir-illliooe) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod                          hoeptnls,Iowve, include health and -edeal centere noct pernansotly staffs'
197? data.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~by_ aPhysiciao  (but by a mdioal assistant, nurs, aidwife, etc. ) tick  offer
Uric Proulaton (percentof total) -Ratio of uric to total popultioa;             in-Patisnt acoomdatioo  sod provide a Iieited range of nedical facilitie..
dMffesodfniton   of  ri  area                af sfect cosparability of data            Adeissiossper Hosoital led - TotaoueofdisietordicrgsPs
amog countries; 1960, 1970, sod 1975 data.                                               h.sil  dvided by the couteraof beds.
Pouit Ins Proj eeti...
fftvlatigtaq jear   - Current population projecticons are based on                  105511
1975 totlppoaisby age sod sec sod thric Mortality sod fertility                     AvrgSo   f.Houehl (pe1rases per hoshod     ttl urhe  so -rrI-
eate. .projection paroseeero for ecrality rates coapise of thzreeAhueodcoisao                                      ru   finiiul   h   hr  living qurtr  sod
leel M aesenig life copectmcy at birthi-loreasing with coonto7 0                      their eao  eas   A hoarder or lodger eaW or soy not be included Io the
Per capita "ce' level, sod faswab  life  -opotaney etbhilining at                     houebld for sattIstical purposes
77.5 years.  The perseeters for fertility rat.ealso have three levole               Aveager ..he of peronsne co    - tta,urc,sd rrl-Avrage cair
asesing decline in fortulity according to loomn, level sad pest                       of persons perfco  i   l uric  so ua cuied cveo. tiio..sl dweeliogo,
faeidly e1"oing porforaoc. Pack coutry Is tico assigned one of tinse                  respectively.  D-ellings occlude non-perucoent structure  and  -ncoptod parto.
nine cobiwation  of  -otality sod fertility trends for projection                   Mesas to Electr.icity (per.cnt of dw-lliago)v totn   urc,an rural - Co-
perponen.                                                   ventional deell~ings olth electricity isliin   qrtrnop-cnotge of
Htatllrypgpp4lp-I     tatiocary  peplation there Is so growth                           total, uric, sod rura  dolligo respectively.
ra.tl r  tel.  iseIqual to tie death rate, anod also the age
structure reeniss constsot. Thin Is achievd only after fertility rates           EDUCATION
decline to tie A1plnconent level of unit se  reprochatic  rate, too                 Odjue-ted ilurulleent Patios
eah generatico of ofs. replacec itself -esatly.  The  tetaicoary pop-               prer  sho -toa sleodfns- irons total, sale sod fe"le ;enroll
lotion cios was roulete' on the basis of the projecits ciaracteristics                 a           Ito  alae  atti  prisr  level a. percentages of respective pr"ry
of the ppoplation in the year 2000, ousd the rate of decline of fertility               echool-age popsoltioso; noreolly ioclIco. children aged 6-il year  hut
yrote :to replaconet level.                                                              adjuoted for differeot leogths of priesry oducation; for o-utri-s  ith
Yar sttionary poplation is reahed - The yea  ten  statiosary popslatios                   svrsleduction esrlolet esy  -ocod 100 percen.t clov  aco  Pupils
nice has been reached.                                                                  are be1w or shov  tie official school age.
PouainDesety                                                                        lec..odary school -  Wtotl. asic nd Pfaee - Coeputed no ao'cv;oecndisy
Perashe   Mid-year populatio Per squar  kilcter (iii isetares) of                         education require  clat fou  ye-   of approvd p-eryne   strcl
totl  re                                                                                proides geceral voctional., or teacher training instru..tloio.  for p,pils
Peo . a. agicultural land - Conpted as shov  for agricultural lcd                     -euall  of 12 to 17 yesr  of age; ocrreepoadoooecour--  are g-serally
only.                                                             roclu~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.ded.
Auust .oM   itrutare (percent) -Children (i-it year),  orhiog-age                   vocatiosal eoolst poos of  ocodr) - Hctiosa.Itootitutio.. oclude
(15-'. yers)  so  rtire  (h eassd oe)spretaeof nid-ear                                     tehia,idusril, orother progresshsch operate iodep.odently or a
IPopaltion; 146o,  970, sod 1977 dots.                                                    departeecte of secondary loitutlooti..
PPoplation Growth Rte (pereest) -_total - dAnual growth rates of total nid-               Pupil-techr ratio -Prisar. sod seodr   Total studest  o erolird is
yerpplations for 1950-h0, 1950-70, nod 1970-7l.                                      prsn           eode   ees divdd by nuniers of teachers in the  orr
Pslosltios Growth Pate (percet) - uric  - A-.uaI growth rates of uric                       spodinglels
VPoplations for 1950-i, '19b0-70, sod 1970-75.                                          Adult literacy rate (P-eret) - Literote edu1to  (shiv to reed sod cr110)s
Crude Mirth Rae    r tbnso)-AnosaI lIve births Per tho,sssd of nOd-                         ap-retage of total adult popolatioc aged 15 years sod ovr.
y- P.P.& .~Pl W9sod 19177 data.
Ceuds  et  R!jk,Agp}pep4ouecdl)-  ocal deaths per thoussod of eiid-yoar               C0nSHs(pTICS
sod 1977dt.asne Cars (Per thousandZocuaio-)d - Psenger oar  comprie actor Cars
ironTRprdution Pate  A-Aeragc oseher of dsoghtccaa.eoa   sill hea                         coating less tic  eight persooc   oclu es ohuinec., he.-ses sod wilitary
ic her  orea  Preprductive porid if she eoperiecoea pre...ot age-                       -ehiclcs.
epsoific fertility rsten; un-cally five-yea  averagec esdioS Ic 1960,                 Radic PO1eiveto 1    thousand psal Aoc           ll types of recivers for radio
1970), sod 1975.                                                                        iro cst   eca   ulcpctioussd of pepuIstioc; occldes unlicense.d
Fee ly Pinnoic  -Adocootors, Aoscoo (tious.a.do) - Annual cute.r of                       receivers ic -coutiee  nod Ic years  hee regioteotion of rodio urts sos Io
aceptors of birth-oot-o1 de-icn under auPices of satiosn1 foely                         vffect; data for receet yeses soy cot be  -opor..ile  -oornt             tooiies
plsoi,sig Progres.                                                                      abolished lio...oing.
Fasily Plnoiogl - Hae (pr roest of anrild cone    - Pcr'oectgef ass-clod                TV Receivers (Peeto n   peolatice) -TVreivs foe irosucot to g.eoro1
cones  f chid-hearng ag  (15-'. yearn.) who use tli-cootro   eie               public  e  thoune  pouaio;  -luds unicensed TV receivers is coutries
to all enribd coc  In san  age group,                                                   sod Is y-r  ohe. registratioc of T'V sets co  o*o ieffect.
FOOD AND MMITION_                                                                         EePsseaje Ciroulatibo  (per tiouna "ojua.tios) - ih-w tie ovrage cicoulatios
MT-1 dli 5971111d5t1           rcit    i697-10      Ldofprf  daily ges..ral istrert aesopapr., define.dt as speiodical publi-tion
tIde ofroo  P fdu "io pe'aia(997=00      ce   fprvP't                             deoedp inaly to recording gesralse-I   sv idered to he "doily"
socua  produtio  ofolfodoediti-s  Production e-cldes acdsod                             ifvitd oPprc   tln   ou   ie            ed
feed sodis on caeedar yer issis.Co,mooditics covr priasury goods            Clace A.-nus Atteodnv pe  Ca.pita o     or -balcd .c tie  -ner of tivdvto
(cc. su-arone is-teod of engar)  hblob  -r  edible add costaic sutrieste               acddnetepo,louigoeuoost   ro-avseasdwbt
(.. cffe  sod tea arc  oviuded).  Aggregate pr-d-tion of  -hc   -tuluy                -cit..
isboe  un d ntio..al avrage produer price ocight
PeI apt sucio   oois(eos of  qeuices,eta( - Poapued Iroc                           I.dP Plow,
ceergy equivalet of act food ..upp..i.aovi able is P..try per capita                Total Labor PFroc (th..uandd) - E-oaoi-sIly  otive pernoss, ioludingaro
Per dy.  dAsilble supplies  -Merice donotic productive, lsp-eri  lens                 forces nd sonployed hut e-luding ihucoive, etudeets, etc. iefi,:itio,-
op-tia, sod chngec Is stood.  Met oupplica coolade animal feed, ae.ds,                -5vrlo  cutries ace solo -nparbe.
qu .ttc tued is food processing, ned ivooco  dis  trlhutioa. Rcqair-             -seret  -rsl    ir force 1 aP-ev-tape of total labor foce
soe.too-reesinted by PAP bsced -c physiologi-a1 cred  for o..,-Iu                     rutu erot)-Labor force Is fouvolg, frutry. hunting sod
u-tivity nod health  -ocide-ing  eviruceetal teepratuer, body ovight.,                fishnlg as pero-tap  of total isboc force.
ape so  sciutr ibotiosoof populstUo, sod s1ooing 11 perorot for                     ldstyieret   laborfoceI doing:itruotios  nufatoring  -ed
cas te at icu..eihld ive-1.                                                           e1-trivity, cater and g.ao  opse~rveage oftotal lob-r force
Per v  pit coply o prooio  gres- Per day) - Prote;  -oteot .1 pvc             Patopto-oo(cos)-ttlnl.nd feale - Partioipat-e or
cPit-    e   upl   ffooSd pr day. Ret supply of food Is dcli-rd asstvtyrtcoropo-tcd  so total   oo   o     n                                       ao   oc   spr
ahoec. Requireets for nil  -outris established by ISIS poovado for                    - otag- of total, sale ned femal  ppalatios of o1l apa repectively;
ndIcLe    ali1-nc  of 60 groo  of total Proteis per day -d 20 groc  of                1960, 1970, nod'1975 dats.  chee  arc IL0a pactiviptsoeo rates reflecting
noieal.sod pulse proteis, of oich 10 grac  obould he -eal proteie.                    ap-ceo otroture of tie peputistl, sod long tiav treod.  A fe  esticates
These  ticdard. arc lose.r tine those of 75 gron  of total proteis and                are fron satio...   -ouoe.
25 gra   of neina  Protein as -osvvgv for ti. erouc, proposed by PAP                sleolocia peedsy Patio -  Patio of populotio  under 15 sod 65 sod over to
I. the Third World Pood lurvey.                                                       th.ao   oc  Is  g  group of 15-64 year.
Per capita evtelo oucely fron anial sod polar - Proteileoupply of food
dociv-d Proc dils sod puloco in gear  pr day.                                     IeNiOse DISTRIBUTIONI
Child (ages 1-i) Mortality Rate (per thcusod   - Ansual deatho per thousned             Percetage ofPiate .        ..... (both is cash sod hind) - RP...ivedtby richest
icape group 1-4  eas  to ohildees 10 thin ago group; for  -te dcvi-                   5peract, ricest.     0Peet,post 20 peroect, an  poores  t0 perceat
opong coutries data derived Prow life tables                                            ofh h.ueholds.
HEALITH                                                                                  POVERTY TARGET 1R0020
Life tEpcit-Y at Pirt  roa -y Avergpe  umb-r of yern. of life                           Ectoiatod Abuoloto  P-:erop I-oc    leve  (Hit. cccl capita)  ubis no -rra
coeosiling at birth; 195 ,170  ned 1977. daa                                           dAbuute poverty I-co    lvlatht Incoe lee   eoweb                      ,ndia
Isat KortolitY Pate (prtose)-And.aI deatho of isfneta under coo                          sotritiusally adequate diet pi..ar.oseia1 oos-Pcod cequiroeta is acot
year of age Per thouso   lve birtho.                                                    affordable.
A-o to Safe Water (pcroot of poouaie-ot                 rc sdrrl-                    Eotisoted ORlotive Povety 1ocs-  eve   Htpe   act.    ra sdpcr 
Numte  of People (total, urc    e   ual ibeaucieacs  to                                 Mh eaIve pvrty Io_n  ece-  is ocr-third o   og  per caIta
safe satyr supply (ilaudes treated surface  at-r  or untreated but                      personal incom  of tie coutry. Seine leve  Is derived f-a  the rural 1e-v
u-tonteb-ted oster ouch as that Prom prot.tetd ic-eoles, springs,                       cith  djusit-ot for higher cot of living 10 urnearas
and osoitary wello) as p-etgpea of their respective pepuatiocs. Is                    Estisoted Poplation PrIce Abeelute Poveror ccon  level(ject(-uisd
';C rin  are  a Public foutain or stsodposi 1o0sted sot sor  tiene                       rua  - Ferest of population (urine  -I url  sh r   aadtnpo"
20nters frye s house ey b.edcoideced cs being ctbic r-a-cble
a'osof that hou-e.  In  -an   areas roneocble acowo  ocud ieply
that .i..hseif. or -eters of the household do act how to upon's a                                                              Oocc,io nd Sccia1 Dain Divinico
disprup-~tio-ate part of tie day in fetching the  soodly'. cater seeds                                                      ..o.oeI  Asalyais sod Projections iDparteet



-24-                                         _M  
-~~~~~~~~q   24    ~ f 5 ptSes
UOJWIC ZDCATOM
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT 3I 1978
Average Annual Rate of Growth (%)
US -        1961-65     - 196-7o               1971-T5          I975-78
GNP at Market Prices                       36,040          100.0          9.0/              7.7-             11.3J'              9.11/
Gross Fixed Domestic Investment           10,905            30.3        11.3               11.2              11.2              11.9
Gross National Saving                     10.126            28.1
Current Account Balance                     -779             2.2
Export of Goods, NFS                       8,639            24.0          9*o2J /          10.923/           23.6 1            11.5 2/1
Imports of Goods, NFS                      9,174            25.5        10.7lo 1           12.7 /            22.32.1           15.52 /
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Net Value Added 2                  Labor Force                     N.V.A. Per Worker
US  Bln.         S             Nln              S                US $                %
Agriculture                                  4.46           15.3          3.36             32.7              1,327              46.8
Industry                                   16.87            57.9          3.41             33.2              4,947            174.6
Constrction                                  2.97           10.2          0.92              8.9              3,228            113.9
OtherO                                       4.83           16.6          2.59             25.2              1,865             65.8
Total/Average                       29.13          100.0         10.28            100.0               2,834            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1978
Central Government
Lei Billions       % of GDP
Total Receipts                              300.8           52.4
Total Expenditures                         299.3            52.1
Total Surplus                                 1.5            0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1975          1976          1977             1978
Money Supply                                176.4          201.4        207.5             232.5
Short-Term Bank Credit                     170.2          194.0        194.5              212.8
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                 103.9           104.4        105.0             107.3
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices           0.2            0.5          0.5               2.2
i  Growth rate of national income                                                                            EMENA CP1D
21 In current prices
i/ Growth rates of exports and imports only.                                                                 Ma  23, 1980
ii National income (SMP methodology) and output of the non-productive sector.
2/ Includes net output of the non-productive sector.



-25-                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pe4es
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Convertible Currencies)                                        MERCRANDIKE EXPORTS 1978
(All Currencies)
1971       1977        19                                    US $ Mln      %
(millions US $)
Exports of Goods and NFS                +944        3,983      4,459          Capital goods            2,289       28
Imports of Goods and NFS                -988      -4,o80      -5,018          Consumer goods           1,405       17
Resource Gap (deficit = -)               -44          -97       -559          Foodstuffs                  784      10
Intermediate goods         667        8
Interest Payments                        -40        -195        -168          Raw materials            2,911       37
Other Factor Payments (net)              -25          +19        -52            Industrial             2,538       32
Balance on Current Account              -109        -273        -779            Agricultural             373        5
Total             8,056     100
Direct Foreign Investment
Net MLT Borrowing/                       3
Disbursements                     +312         +928       1,167               EXTERNAL DEBT (December 31. 1979)
Amortization                      -190         -561         602
Subtotal                          +122         +367        +565                                       US $ Mln
Export Credits Extended]'(net)             2/       -171        -186
Short-Term Credit (net)                  -20        +156        +441          Total M and LT                5,564
Net Errors and Omission                   -            -          -1            of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)                  -7         +32         +40            currencies                  5,467
Fuel and Related Materials 4t
Imports                            635.6      2,622.1    3,346.5
of which Oil and Oil Products    36.6         875.4       n.a.
Exports                            425.5      1,463.0    1,800.2        DEBT SERVICE RATIO  1979        _
of which Oil and Oil Products   143.0         688.1      n.a.
Convertible currencies only   20.4
All currencies                 12.1
EXCHANGE RATES
1.  Official Rate
Before August 1971                     6 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973              5.53 lei:US$l
February 1973-March 1978               4.97 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                       4.47 lei:US$l
2.  Tourist Rate
Before August 1971                     18 lei:US$1
August 1971-February 1973              16 lei:US$1
February 1973-October 1974             14.35 lei:US$1
Since October 1974                     12 lei:US$1
3.  Converstion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973 - March 1978                 20 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                       18 lei:US$1
1/ Includes use of IMF credit.                                                                             EMENA CP1D
2/ Included in M and LT Capital.
31 Includes S, M and LT credits extended.                                                                  May 23, 1980
4/ Total trade.



-26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pases
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
STATEMNT OF BANKWANS  As of Aril 30. 190)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Loan Number        Year          Borrower                                          Bank   TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                                         200.0
LA. 1020-RO       1974        Investment Bank              Fertilizer               60.0                 2.2
Ln. 1083-RO       1975        BAFI a/                      Agricultural Credit      30.0                 2.7
Ln. 1169-Ro        1976       BAFI                         Flood Recovery           40.0                 1.7
Ln. 1242-RO        1976       Investment Bank              Hydropower               50.0                12.2
Ln. 1247-RO       1976        BAFI                         Irrigation               60.0                10.9
Ln. 1368-RO       1977        BAFI                         Irrigation               60.0                19.7
Ln. 1436-Ro        1977       Investment Bank              Bearings                 38.0                15.7
Ln. 1447-RO       1977        Investment Bank              Glass Fiber              18.1                 1.2
Ln. 1448-RO       1977        Investment Bank              Polyester                50.0                14.6
La. 1479-RO       1978        BAFI                         Agricultural Credit      71.0                37.1
Ln. 1509-RO        1978       BAFI                         Irrigation               40.5                26.3
Ln. 1536-RO        1978       Investment Bank              Tire                     85.0                65.2
Ln. 1581-RO       1978        Investment Bank              Post Earthquake          60.0                41.1
Ln. 1634-RO       1979        Investment Bank              Chemicals                40.0                31.7
Ln. 1651-RO       1979        Investment Bank              Pipe                     40.0                39.1
Ln. 1652-RO       1979        Investment Bank              Thermal Power            70.0                63.7
Ln. 1669-RO        1979       BAFI                         Livestock                75.0                62.5
Ln. 1670-RO       1979        BAFI                         Irrigation               70.0                70.0
Ln. 1764-Ro        1980       BAFI                         Livestock                85.0                85.0
Total                                             1,262.6                602.6
of which has been repaid                             13.9
Total now outstanding                             1,248.7
Amount sold                19.8
of which repaid             9.9                        9.9
Total now paid by Bank b/                         1,238.8
Total undisbursed                                                        602.6
a/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry.
b/ Excluding exchange adjustments.
c/ In addition, a $100 million loan for the Danube-Black Sea Canal Project and a $90 million loan for the
Covurlui Irrigation Project, approved by the Executive Directors on January 22, 1980, have been signed
but are not yet effective.



- 27 -                      AANNEX II
Page 2 of 6 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln No. 1020    Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1980
After initial delays due to changes in site and project scope, and
delays in design and construction, most plant units have been commissioned
during 1978/79 except for the urea plant. The urea plant is delayed due to
slow delivery of local equipment and is now expected to be commissioned in
late 1980.  The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack
of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the
Bank's Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers.
More recent delays have been caused by late delivery of Romanian manufactured
equipment. The cold mill was commissioned in July, 1979 and construction on
the bar mill is progressing somewhat behind contracted schedules with commis-
sioning expected in June, 1980. Total project costs are expected to be
essentially equal to appraisal estimates. The project is expected to be
fully completed in 1980. The loan is now fully disbursed.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages are likely to result in a fifteen month delay in commissioning
of generating units. Project execution is otherwise according to plan, but in
connection with Turcene II some modifications in the coal handling equipment
mills are underway because the coal (lignite) was found to be harder and of
poorer quality than originally expected. Training of future operational staff
is in hand. The loan is now fully disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
Construction of the pre-mix feed mill is satisfactory and final project
procurement has been carried out under contracts tendered internationally.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project execution is proceeding well except for the installation of
the flood warning equipment which has been slow. Equipment procured under
international competitive bidding has been delivered and only small quantities
of spare parts remain to be procured. Delivery of flood warning equipment is
expected to be completed in 1980 and installation will extend into 1981.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation is expected to begin early in 1980. Project execution
is currently about on( year behind schedule. Civil works for the dam and
underground power station are well underway, and 100 percent of the loan
amount has been committed.
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project
works is progressing satisfactorily. Out of 11 dairy farms, six farms are
completed and contracts for purchase of 9,130 imported heifers (100 percent of
total) valued at over US$8 million have been awarded. Procurement contracts
for all equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo in Negruvoda is
completed while the silo for 44,000 tons in Baneasa is delayed. Work on soil
erosion control and the land levelling is behind schedule.
Ln No. 1368    Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials have been awarded. Some
construction equipment and about 50 percent of pipe has been delivered.
Construction of project works is underway, progress is satisfactory. In 1979
about 18,000 ha have been irrigated. Works on surface and tile drains, land
levelling and soil erosion control works are behind schedule.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Contracts on virtually all major packages except one, have now been
signed and implementation of the project is proceeding ahead of the original
schedule. Project costs are expected to be close to, or slightly over,
appraisal estimates.  Overall economic aspects of the project look somewhat
more favorable than at appraisal due to the improved market outlook, improved
product mix, and changes in project design to achieve lower product costs.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.1 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank has
reviewed the procurement of roving machines and has decided that procedures
undertaken by the Borrower were inconsistent with those required under the
Loan Agreement. Therefore the portion of the loan (US$197,080) that would
have otherwise been eligible for disbursement has been cancelled. The pro-
curement of equipment for Section II (Spinning) financed by the Bank is nearly
completed. Start-up of this section has been delayed about 12 months behind
appraisal estimate. This is mainly due to civil construction delays because
of severe winter conditions and also delays in imported equipment delivery and
erection. Commissioning and three-shift operation is targeted for June 1980.
Ln No. 1448    Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily with production expected to begin
in June 1980.
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania
in a development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the development
of a large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and selection centers,
expansion of industrialized swine production, and provision of slaughtering
and processing facilities. Project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, although disbursements are lagging 31 percent behind Plan targets.
Construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment procurement under ICB is
almost complete.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts were received in November and
December, 1978, and almost all contracts have been awarded. Construction of
project works is proceeding satisfactorily, and about 25 percent of irrigation
works have been completed.
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness:  June 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Construction of the Zalau plant (truck tires) is slightly behind
schedule with expected completion in the second quarter of 1980. The Turnu-
Severin plant (off-the-road tires) has been delayed 2 years mainly as a
result of difficulties in obtaining adequate responses from prospective
suppliers of the main technology and equipment package. The Romanian Govern-
ment is now at an advanced stage of negotiations with a prospective supplier
for the OTR package.
Ln No. 1581    Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and contracting is around
70 percent complete. The pace of disbursement has also picked up in recent
months and is expected to be maintained. The enterprises assisted under the
loan generally recorded substantial output growth in 1979.
Ln No. 1634    Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January 15,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial procurement and execution of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily, and the final commissioning is expected by end 1981, as
scheduled, although partial commissioning of some units is delayed by a
few months. The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate.
Ln No. 1651    Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of February 26,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
After an initial delay of nine months procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily. The contract for the main technology package was signed in
November 1979 and other packages have been prepared for international bidding.
Site clearing started in May 1980. The project is expected to start commer-
cial operation in the first quarter of 1983.



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6 pages
Ln No. 1652    Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by about one year because of
delays in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for implementa-
tion of both projects. Orders for the three Bank financed 330 MW thermo-
electric units have been placed.  Procurement for about 3 percent of the goods
being financed from the loan is in process.
Ln No. 1669    Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 6, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and disbursements
are in line with appraisal forecasts. Tender documents for procurement
of construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment have been approved.
Ln No. 1670    Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project; US$70
Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
July 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Initial preparatory works are proceeding satisfactorily. Bids for
procurement of equipment and material, under ICB, have been opened and are
being evaluated by the Borrower.
Ln No. 1764    Third Livestock Project; US$80.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1979; Date of Effectiveness:  April 15, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project implementation is beginning. Tender documents for pro-
curement of construction materials have been approved subject to some
modifications.
Ln No. 1794    Danube-Black Sea Canal Project; US$100 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: (not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln No. 1795    Covurlui Irrigation Project; US$90 Million Loan of April 8,
1980; Date of Effectiveness:  (not yet effective); Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness is underway.



- 32 -                               ANNEX III
ROMANIA
ORCHARDS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:              19 months (November 1977-June 1979)
(b)  Agency which has prepared             Ministry of Agriculture and Food
the project:                         Industry
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Bank, and date of first
Bank mission to consider
the project:                          November 1977 and October 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                              November 26, 1979
(e) Date of completion of nego-
tiations:                            May 2, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectivenss:          September 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The Government should review its prices for apricots, plums and sweet
and sour cherries, and establish by the time of the initial produc-
tion of these species revised prices at levels adequate to service
BAFI loans out of the net cash flow generated from the orchards
(para. 46).
(ii) The Government should carry out detailed domestic and export market
studies, full reports of which will be submitted to the Bank by
June 30, 1982, and review these with the Bank (para. 39).



/<                  0f -S:s             m *   ErME:
N        /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>r
r 7              -4
1'~~~~~~~M1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
vllAW%En~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- : L



