LOAN NUMBER 1876 RO
Loan Agreement
(Orchards Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
Dated          k"K                    1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1876 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      , 1980, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE
ALIMENTARA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract loans from foreign
lending institutions up to an approximate aggregate amount equiva-
lent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) to assist
further in the financing of the said Project.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1,01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BAFI-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower to a Loan Beneficiary for an Investment
Project;
(b) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower approved
by Decree No. 55 of 1970 of the Council of State of Romania,
approved by Law No. 15 of 1970 of Romania, as amended from time
to time;


﻿-2-
(c) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the R.manian Bank for
Foreign Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of P-mania;
(d) "Loan Beneficiary" means a state agricultural enter-
prise or an agricultural cooperative unit to which a BAFI-loan
is proposed to be made or has been made;
(e) "Investment Project" means a project for any of the
investments included in Part A of the Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement which is to be carried out by a Loan
Beneficiary or Loan Beneficiaries utilizing the proceeds of a
BAFI-loan or BADI-loans;
(f) "Lei" means the national currency of Romania;
(g) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(h) "Romagrimex" means the Romanian Foreign Trade Enter-
prise of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania,
established under Law No. 11 of 1971 of Romania, and operating
under Decision No. 938 of August 14, 1972 of the Council of
Ministers of Romania, as amended from time to time;
(i) "GEDH" means the General Economic Directorate of Horti-
culture established under Decree No. 298 of August 2, 1979, as
amended from time to time; and
(j) "Net cash flow from operations" means revenue from the
sale of fruits at farm-gate prices established by the Romanian
authorities less all expenditures incidental to their production,
excluding from such expenditures any payments of principal and
interest under BAFI-loans.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time


﻿-3-
to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, on account
of: (i) disbursements made by the Borrower under BAFI-loans for
technically feasible and financially viable Investment Projects
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B
of the Project; and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
(b) The Borrower may designate the Foreign Trade Bank as
representative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and Article V of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and services
required for the Project, selected by agreement between the
Bank and the Borrower and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and administra-
tive practices and with due regard to the environmental impact of
the selection and use of insecticides, fungicides, herbicides and
fertilizers as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall be responsible for supervising the
execution of the Project;
(b) Romagrimex shall make suitable arrangements for the
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and
(c) GEDH hall have overall responsibility for the coor-
dination, of the execution of the Project and for the Project-
related activities of the other departments and agencies of the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) For each Investment Project, the Borrower
shall make a BAFI-loan or BAFI-loans to the Loan Beneficiary
or Loan Beneficiaries that will carry out such Investment Project
for all or part of the cost of such Investment Project.
(b) Each BAFI-loan shall bear interest at a rate which
shall be equal to the interest rate then charged by the Borrower
in respect of loans for the same type of investments and shall
be repaid over such period, after such grace period, as shall be
consistLent with the expected implementation period and yields of
such Investment Project and the repayment capacity of the Loan
Beneficiary.
(c) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, each BAFI-loan will be made on terms whereby
the Borrower shall have under Romanian legislation, or shall
obtain by written contract with the Loan Beneficiary or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Loan Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, agricultural, financial and


﻿-5-
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that (A) notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2e03 of
the Loan Agreement, the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the BAFI-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor
and, in the case of services, of their quality and competence of
the parties rendering them, and (B) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, fruit handling and storage facilities and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) obtain all such information
as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to
the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Loan Beneficiary; and (v) suspend or terminate
the right of the Loan Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of
the BAFI-loan upon failure by such Loan Beneficiary to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to the Loan Beneficiary in suit: manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and t Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. Part B of the Project shall be carried out
in accordance with such technical. assistance program as shall
have been agreed upon between the Bank an4 the Borrower.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance of the imported goods referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or any BAFI-loan to be
used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Achievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Bank and the Borrower agree that,
in order to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be
necessary that:
(i) the Loan Beneficiary be supplied with agricul-
tural technical, advisory and research services
and agricultural, financing and marketing faci-
lities, all as required to make optimal produc-
tive use of the investments made under the Project;
and, without limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, the Loan Beneficiary be provided with
sufficient quantities of fertilizers, insecti-
cides, fungicides and herbicides to ensure the
application of sound agronomic and commercial
practices in orchards to be established under
the Project;
(ii) the facilities established under the Project be
operated and maintained (A) with due regard to
ecological, environmental and safety factors,
including the environmental impact of the selection
and use of insecticides, fungicides, herbicides and
fertilizers, and (B) in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and agricul-
tural practices;
(iii) by the time of initial production of apricots,
plums and sweet and sour cherries from the orchards
included in the Project, the prices for these
species be reviewed and established by the com-
petent authorities in Romania at such levels as
shall reasonably enable the Loan Beneficaries to
service their BAFI-loans during any fiscal year out
of their net cash flow from operations for that
year;
(iv)    in order to help making decisions concerning
orchard investments in the succeeding years,
detailed studies of domestic and export fruit
markets be carried out by the competent author-
ities in Romania, and full reports of these
studies be submitted by June 30, 1982 to the
Bank for its review and comments; and


﻿- 7 -
(v) facilities be constructed in Romania adequate to
handle, store and process fruit to be produced at
the orchards inicluded in the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized
under the laws of Romania, ensure that the requirements set
forth in this Section be met.
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate adminis-
trative and financial standards and practices and in accordance
with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower
represents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists on
any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create the
lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if the lien shall
be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the
Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall
take such measures as shall be necessary according to the State
Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order to achieve the
purposes of the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information;
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accom-
plished. To that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at
the request of either party exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the bene-
fits derived from the Project, the performance of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment of the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan, and the Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to exchange views with
representatives of the Loan Beneficiary, GEDH and the other
agencies concerned of Romania with regard to the Project, the
benefits derived from the Project, and the fulfillment of the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from the Loan Beneficiary
and the other agencies of Romania concerned with the Project, -.d
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the pla.s,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank and the Borrower shall agree;
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall cause the Loan Beneficiaries to
maintain accounts adequate to independently record all Project
expenditures and Project-related financial transactions; (ii)
shall maintain (A) summaries of the accounts referred to in (i)
above and (B) procedures adequate to monitor and record the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the    proceeds of the Loan or any BAFI-loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
within forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter, a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree, on the progress of the Project during such
quarter;


﻿- 9 -
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's reDresentatives to
visit and examine the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or any BAFI-loan, the facilities and con-
struction sites included in the Project and the accounts of
the Borrower referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section and
the records and documents relating to the Project of the Loan
Beneficiary and of the departments and agencies of Romania respon-
sible for the Project or any part thereof;
(e) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each of its fiscal years,
certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower), and until the com-
pletion of the Project certified copies of its accounts referred
to in paragraph (c) of this Section, for such fiscal year, both
the statements and the accounts to be in the form in which they
shall be audited; (ii) submit such statements and accounts
including all records supporting certificates referred to In
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to an independent
audit conducted, in accordance with appropriate   auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by the Ministry of Finance of
Romania, and the report of such audit by said auditor, of such
scope and in such detail as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
agree, including a separate opinion by said auditor in respect of
the said certificates showing whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn on the basis of such certificates have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the before-mentioned
financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
(f) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
furnish to each other such additional information as the other
party shall reasonably request with regarA to the progress of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
BAFI-loans, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds,
the operations, resources and expenditures of the Loan Benefi-
ciary, the benefits derived from the Project and the general
status of the Loan; and
(g) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than December 31, 1988, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail


﻿- 10 -
as the Bank and the Borrower shall reasonably agree, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, 4ts cost and the
benefits derived   and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Bank and the Borrower of their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the
service thereof or the performance by either party of its obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date     NA lz         is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) o:
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
For the Borrower:
Banca pentru Agricultura si
Industrie Alimentara
Strada Smirdan No. 3
Bucharest, Romania
Cable address:                     Telex:
AGROBANK                           11622
Bucharest
IN WITNESS WhEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                 isP~xxA        Y7w
By  AC ^  Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI
INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Disbursements under
BAFI-loans:
(a) for Part A.I           41,300,000       20%
of the Project
(b) for Part A.II           6,700,000       20%
of the Project
(2) Goods and services           2,000,000       100%
for Part B of
the Project
TOTAL            50,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) disbursements under BAFI-loans, which loans were signed
before the date of this Agreement;
(c) any BAFI-loan until the -iank shall have been furnished
with a certified copy of the document evidencing the approval
required under the laws of Romania for the implementation of
the Investment Project to be financed out of the proceeds of such
BAFI-loan; and


﻿- 13 -
(d) any BAFI-loan for an Investment Project unless the
Bank's prior consent to the Investment Project in question, or
consents to such other Investment Projects as shall be agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower to be representative of the
Investment Project in question, shall have been obtained: When
submitting an Investment Project to the Bank for its consent, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, together with
a description of the Loan Beneficiary or Loan Beneficiaries
concerned and an appraisal of the Investment Project concerned,
in such form and containing such information as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree, and the proposed terms and conditions of
the BAFI-loan or BAFI-loans concerned.
3.   Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account in respect
of a BAFI-loan shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
Borrower by which the Borrower certifies that the disbursement
on account of which the withdrawal is requested has been made for
an Investment Project; the certificate shall be in such form as
shall have been agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category or Sub-Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category or Sub-Category, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category or Sub-
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
or Sub-Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category or Sub-Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement
is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable


﻿- 14 -
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Investment Project
I.   Orchards
Establishment of about 29,820 hectares of new orchards
under about 120 Investment Projects, with aggregate areas and
average planting densities by species as follows:
(a) about 6,370 ha of apple orchards, planted at an average
density of 1,667 trees/ha, and including about 3,290 ha
for agricultural cooperative units and 3,080 ha for
state agricultural enterprises;
(b) about 2,730 ha of apple orchards, planted at an average
density of 1,000 trees/ha, and including about 1,410 ha
for agricultural cooperative units and about 1,320 ha
for state agricultural enterprises;
(c) about 4,280 ha of plum orchards, planted at an average
density of 500 trees/ha, and including about 3,030 ha
for agricultural cooperative units and about 1,250 ha
for state agricultural enterprises;
(d) about 870 ha of pear orchards, planted at an average
density of 1,250 trees/ha, and including about 415 ha
for agricultural cooperative units and about 455 ha
for state agricultural enterprises;
(e) about 5,080 ha of peach orchards, planted at an average
density of 740 trees/ha, and including about 2,200 ha
for agricultural cooperative units and about 2,880 ha
for state agricultural enterprises;
(f) about 3,800 ha of apricot orchards, planted at an
average density of 700 trees/ha, and including about
2,390 ha for agricultural cooperative units and
about 1,410 ha for state agricultural enterprises;


﻿- 16 -
(g) about 2,710 ha of sweet cherry orchards, planted at an
average density of 500 trees/ha, and including about
1,810 ha for agricultural cooperative units and about
900 ha for state agricultural enterprises; and
(h) about 3,980 ha of sour cherry orchards, planted at an
average density of 834 trees/ha, and including about
2,870 ha for agricultural cooperative units and
about 1,110 ha for state agricultural enterprises.
II. Controlled Atmosphere Cold Storage
Construction of about 19 new controlled atmosphere cold
storage facilities located in the main fruit producing areas of
the country, each with an annual capacity to sort, grade and pack
15,000 tons of apples and static storage capacity for 5,000 tons
of apples.
Part B: Technical Assistance
Provision of specialized equipment and training in its
use for improvement in handling, storage and processing of fruit
and for applied research for mechanization of fruit production and
harvesting.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1987.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1983
through   December 15, 1994                2,085,000
On June 15, 1995                               2,042,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.65%
More than three years but noC
more than six years
before maturity                             3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender, a general procurement notice,
in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project
shall be grouped together, whenever practicable, for the purpose
of bidding and procurement, and such grouping of items shall
be subject to agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
B.   Goods and services required for Part B of the Project may
be procured on the basis of prudent international shopping by
soliciting offers from at least three suppliers from at least
three of the member countries (including, for this purpose,
Switzerland) of the Bank; provided, however, that the Bank's
prior agreement to such procedures shall have been obtained
and that aggregate cost of such procurement shall not exceed
$2,000,000 equivalent.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their


﻿- 20 -
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods offerred in
such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods
evaluated on a c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applic-
able to finished domestic products) on goods evaluated on an
ex-factory basis, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Romania.
(3) Group C: bids not included under Group A or B
above.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or gr;'up B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.


﻿- 21 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
Irom group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest eval-
uated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
Review of invitations to bid or, in the case of procurement
by international shopping, to quote prices and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
(a) Before bids or price quotations are invited, Romagrimex
shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid or quote prices and the specifications and, in
the case of invitations to bid, other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents or the invita-
tions to quote prices shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders or suppliers.
(b) Promptly after the bids or price quotations have been
received, Romagrimex shall inform the Bank of the names of the
bidders or prospective suppliers and the respective amounts of the
bids or prices quoted, and shall indicate those items for which
only one bid was received.
(c) After bids or price quotations have been evaluated,
Romagrimex shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder or the supplier to which
the contract is intended to be awarded and the reason for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids or the price quotations received, together


﻿- 22 -
with the recommendations for award and such other information as
the  Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Romagrimex and state
the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids or price quotations were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this ,3O   / day of    L   , 19'2.
FOR SECRETARY


