Document of                       FILE COPY
The World Bank                         \    Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3454-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$126.4 MILLION
TO
ELECTRICIDADE DE PORTUGAL, E. P.
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
January 28, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ban



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year 1982                   August 1982
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
US$l = 79.98 Esc.                  US$1   = 81.4 Esc.
1 Esc. = US$0.0125                   1 Esc. = US$0.0123
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
KV    =  Kilovolt; 1,000 Volts
KWh   =  Kilowatt Hour
MW    =  Megawatt; 1,000 Kilowatts
MTOE  =  Million tons of oil equivalent
TWh   =  1,000,000,000 KWh
ABBREVIATIONS
CPE        Companhia Portuguesa de Electricidade
DGE        Directorate General for Energy
EDP        Electricidade de Portugal, Empresa Publica
EEC        European Economic Community
EIB        European Investment Bank
IMF        International Monetary Fund
LIBOR      London Interbank Offer Rate
MIEE       Ministry of Industry, Energy and Exports
PETROGAL   Petroleos de Portugal
PGP        Petroquimica e Gas de Portugal
TSF        Thermal Support Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
POWER PROJECT VII
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Electricidade de Portugal, E. P. (EDP)
Guarantor:              Republic of Portugal
Amount:                 US$126.4 million equivalent, including the
capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                  Repayable in 15 years, including three years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate;
EDP to bear foreign exchange and interest risks.
Project Description:   The project consists of a three-year time slice
of EDP's overall investment program. The object
of the program is to meet, at least cost, EDP's
forecast growth in demand while maintaining the
required reliability of the system. The 1983-85
investment program includes; (i) construction of
hydroplants which will eventually add 1460 MW to
the system; (ii) completion of the second phase
of an oil-fired thermal plant (2 x 250 MW), in-
stallation of two combustion turbines (2 x 83 MW)
at an existing plant, and work on the first phase
of a coal-fired thermal plant (2 x 300 MW);
(iii) construction of about 564 km of transmis-
sion lines and about 12,500 km of medium- and
low-voltage distribution lines, with associated
transformer capacity of about 4,700 MVA; (iv) ex-
pansion of testing and measurement facilities;
(v) computer hardware and software, and a study
for upgrading the accounting system; and
(vi) study for the identification of possible
nuclear plant sites.
The major physical risks facing the project are
those normally associated with construction of
hydroelectric plants and EDP has taken measures
to reduce these risks to a satisfactory level.
The major institutional risks are those asso-
ciated with EDP's ability to generate sufficient
revenues and raise additional financing on ac-
ceptable terms. Given EDP's past performance and
safeguards included in the loan and guarantee
agreements, these are considered acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and rnay oe used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise De disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs; a/
US$ Million Equivalent
Local      Foreign b/       Total
I. Generation:
Hydro plants                             169.1         83.6         252.7
Thermal plants                           238.7        204.8         443.5
Subtotal                              407.8         288.4         696.2
II. Transmission                                67.8         35.3         103.1
III. Distribution                               171.9         95.1         267.0
IV. Rehabilitation                              37.1         20.6          58.0
V. Other                                       31.4         13.9          45.3
Subtotal                               308.2        164.9         473.4
Base Cost                                716.3        453.3       1,169.6
VI. Contingencies
Physical                                 100.6         63.8         164.4
Price                                    332.6         82.7         415.3
Subtotal                               433.2        146.5         579.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       1,149.5        599.8       1,749.3
VII. Interest During Construction c/            634.6        348.1          982.7
TOTAL                                1,784.1        947.9       2,732.0
Financing Plan:
US$ Million Equivalent
Local b/    Foreign         Total
I. Borrowings:
IBRD                                      -           126.4         126.4
Foreign Borrowings                        -           786.2         786.2
Local Borrowings                       1,035.6          -         1,035.6
Subtotal                            1,035.6        912.6        1,948.2
II. Government Equity                           30.5          -            30.5
III. Contributions and Participations            77.6          -             77.6
IV. EDP Internal Cash Generation and
Reduction in Working Capital             675.7          -           675.7
TOTAL                                  1,819.4        912.6       2,732.0
a/ EDP is exempt from taxes on the importation of equipment and materials.
b/ Includes indirect foreign exchange costs.
c/ Includes front-end fee of $0.9 million on Bank loan.



- 111 -
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million Equivalent
FY1983 FY1984 FY1985 FY1986 FY1987
Annual                 6.3    31.9   40.7   37.9    9.6
Cumulative             6.3    38.2   78.9  116.8  126.4
Economic Rate of Return:            10.3 percent
Appraisal Report:                   No. 3805-PO, dated January 27, 1983



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
ELECTRICIDADE DE PORTUGAL, E. P. (EDP) FOR A
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Electricidade de Portugal, E. P. (EDP) for the equivalent of US$126.4 mil-
lion, including capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a seventh power
project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years grace,
w:ith interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2,        The latest economic report, entitled ""Policies for Industrial
Restructuring" (No. 3804-PO,) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
August 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I. An updating eco-
nomic report is being prepared for discussion with the Government.
Backg round
3.        The revolution of April 1974 and its aftermath radically trans-
formed Portugal's economy. The banks, insurance companies, power companies,
major transportation agencies and large industrial groups were nationalized.
A comprehensive land reform was carried out in the central and southern parts
of the country. Trade union activity was legalized and workers' rights safe-
guarded. Minimum wages were established and restraints were put on the high-
est salary levels. Prices were controlled. Unemployment and social security
benefits were increased. Real wages and private consumption increased
rapidly in the period to 1977, resulting in a significant improvement in in-
come distribution. The Government also increased public expenditures and
deficits (necessitating rapid monetary expansion) to meet the expectations of
improved living standards which had been generated by the revolution. The
general circumstances of the revolutionary period and its aftermath also
generated a serious deterioration in the profitability and general financial
position of the private sector.
4.        A combination of adverse external factors, together with the struc-
tural changes brought about by the revolution, resulted initially in a sharp
deiterioration in the balance of payments. The period 1974-77 saw Portugal
fighting a losing battle with the problems of maintaining private consumption
and meeting the investment needs of the economy. A program of austerity mea-
sures, including currency devaluations, was implemented in 1976 and 1977, but
its impact was reduced by the continued rapid expansion of credit, mainly to
finance the Government deficit. In early May 1978, the Government adopted a
comprehensive program to reduce the balance of payments deficit and by 1979,
the current account deficit was virtually at zero, export volumes rose by 29
percent while import volumes rose by only about 7 percent. In early 1980,
the focus of policy shifted to the control of inflation, and a six percent



- 2 -
revaluation of the escudo was implemented in February. Together with con-
tinued but weaker credit restraint and price controls, this helped to bring
the inflation rate to a level of about 17 percent for the year.
Recent Developments
5.        The period since 1979 has seen the progressive deterioration of
economic performance in most major aspects and especially in relation to the
balance of payments. The growth rate of GDP, after having been lifted to 5.5
percent by expansionary policies in 1980, declined to less than 2 percent in
1981. Inflation, which reached 24 percent in 1979 and was brought back by
administered price restraints to 17 percent in 1980, accelerated to about 25
percent by the end of 1981. The current account deficit rose to $1.2 billion
in 1980 and to an estimated level of $2.7 billion (11 percent of GDP) in
1981. Three main sets of factors have contributed to this deterioration.
They are: (i) a reaction of wages to their decline in real terms from 1977
onwards; (ii) a series of unfavorable exogenous factors including the 1980
oil price hike and the 1981 drought; and (iii) serious weaknesses in under-
lying policies. This recent deterioration has left the economy less able to
face up to the challenge and the fundamental structural changes necessitated
by prospective EEC entry.
6.        The policies pursued during the past four years have not made any
real dent in unemployment (still over 8 percent), and the emphasis on short-
run stabilization has also delayed the formulation of policies to address the
serious structural problems which Portugal faces. Particularly important is
the large dependence on imported energy; the rising dependence on food im-
ports; a backward agricultural sector; an industrial sector, parts of which
still require heavy protection in comparison with the EEC; an ill-defined
attitude to public enterprises; and a weak tax structure. Despite rising
confidence in Portugal's economic and political stability, private investment
has been very disappointing in recent years (it even fell in real terms in
1979), and has certainly not been adequate given the very considerable in-
vestment needs of the economy.
A Strategy for the Eighties
7.        The recent sharp deterioration in the balance of payments suggest
that stabilization must once again dominate the formulation of economic
policy. Growth rates on the order of 4 to 5 percent per annum, which were
earlier thought to be possible, now seem to be inconsistent with the mainten-
ance of reasonable stability in the balance of payments over the next three
to four years. The dilemma which the Government now faces is to address the
serious deterioration in the economic situation, while at the same time
undertake structural changes. Stabilization policies will need to be pursued
in a framework which is consistent with efforts to restructure industry, to
encourage investment attuned to energy-saving and to improve the generally
weak productivity performance of Portuguese agriculture. The main objective
of these stabilization policies would be to reduce the balance of payments'
current account deficit to more manageable levels, as well as deficits of the



- 3 -
Government budget and of the public enterprises, and to reduce inflation.
Wlhile the Government has taken first steps by devaluing the escudo by 9.4
percent in mid-1982 and by initiating an investigation into the financial and
economic situation of public enterprises, much more remains to be done. A
combination of appropriate exchange rate policies, interest rate policies and
fiscal policies will have to be implemented quickly in order to avoid a
further deterioration of the economic situation. At the same time, if rea-
sonable growth rates are to be achieved in spite of oil, food and other
structural dependencies on the import side, Portugal will certainly require a
rate of growth of visible exports significantly higher than the growth of
world trade. Portugal will also need to retain policies which can maintain
mrigrants' remittances at a high level. To achieve these objectives will
require careful balancing on the part of the Government since the measures
which could ensure a reasonable balance of payments position may, at the same
time, discourage investment and slow the rate of growth.
8.        As Portugal expects to join the EEC in the mid-eighties, the posi-
tion defined above will require the country to fully exploit its potential
comparative advantage. In the industrial sector this will mean emphasis on
labor-intensive industries, both light industries, such as textiles and foot-
wear, and heavier items, including electrical machinery and transport equip-
ment. This will imply a substantial, and possibly painful, rehabilitation
process in some cases (e.g., textiles). Although Portugal's industrial
strategy must give priority to exports, the development of basic industry to
supply the domestic market should also be pursued whenever adequate rates of
return can be demonstrated. It will also be important to dismantle, or at
least simplify, many of the complex Government interventions to which Portu-
guese industries have become accustomed. These include the system of invest-
ment incentives, the price control apparatus, the arrangements for export
incentives, and extensive non-tariff barriers to trade.
9.        Portugal's industrial strategy is also complicated by the fact that
its wage advantage will be eroded as the country will be gradually integrated
into the EEC and that intensified competition from the Far East will become a
problem for some products in which Portugal may have a comparative advantage
for the moment. The Government also faces the very difficult problems of
improving labor mobility and devising better arrangements for controlling the
evolution of public enterprises and their investment program. Neither of
these problems permits an easy solution and both require the early definition
of coherent and comprehensive programs.
10.       In the case of agriculture, the adoption of EEC policies will raise
prices to consumers but, at the same time, could cause a net flow of re-
sources into agriculture. It will also change the relative profitability of
vvarious agricultural commodities.  Portugal needs to respond to the opportu-
nity presented by EEC entry and thereby reduce the current very large trade
deficit in agricultural commodities. The necessary response is to modernize
and increase investment in the cultivation of fruits, off-season vegetables
and, possibly, vegetable oils where the climate and early season confer a



- 4-
strong comparative advantage. Modernization in other more traditional agri-
cultural crops is desirable even in the absence of EEC entry, but would also
help to reduce the potential costs to the economy of EEC membership.
11.       There are five main types of adjustment which Portugal will need to
make to respond to the changed circumstances within the EEC for the agricul-
ture sector. First, the allocation of agricultural resources will need to be
adjusted to try to maximize the benefits to the sector of the EEC structure
of administered price supports which are often radically different from those
traditionally applied in Portugal (e.g., emphasis on extensive rather than
intensive livestock production).  Second, a major effort will be needed to
raise production in those areas, and notably cereals, where the foreign ex-
change implications of the EEC agricultural protection policy could be
extremely severe. Third, complementary arrangements will be needed to reform
the policies for the consumer subsidization of basic foodstuffs since contin-
uation of present levels of consumer prices would involve a much increased
budgetary outlay. Fourth, steps need to be taken to develop the institutions
which will be necessary to take full advantage of EEC arrangements for sup-
porting producers. A major example of this is the need to develop producers'
associations and cooperatives, especially for fruits, to act as the vehicle
for EEC purchases of surplus production. A related need is to develop EEC-
consistent grading arrangements for fruits and wines so that potential ex-
ports are not lost. Finally, arrangements need to be devised for the gradual
dismantling of Portugal's present monopolistic marketing arrangements.
12.       The last economy-wide planning exercise in Portugal was conducted
in 1976, in the form of a proposed plan for 1977-80 which, however, was not
implemented. Work has been underway for some time now to develop sector
plans for the major sectors; draft plans for energy, agriculture and trans-
port have been prepared. The challenge for Portuguese planners is to be
highly selective in their program of public investment in support of these
plans, at an acceptable cost in terms of scarce budgetary and other resources.
In addition, it is extremely important to seek new institutional arrangements
to streamline decision making as well as project preparation, implementation
and supervision. As regards public enterprises themselves, there is a need
to define a medium-term strategy which will differentiate between their
social and economic objectives. For the moment, the development of these
enterprises and external lending to them is significantly hindered by the
fact that the economic cost of meeting social objectives is sometimes not
taken into account by the Government. Subsidy, pricing and other policies
towards public enterprises should be made in the light of a clear understand-
ing of their consequences, with adequate and explicit provision made for any
divergence.
13.       The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the
economic growth rate foreseen for the 1980s and is expected to account for
about 60 percent of the investment of the period. The very large increase in
exports in 1979 is evidence of the gains that the private sector can make in
major markets. However, private investment is still hindered by several fac-
tors. Profitability, though rising in recent years, is still relatively low



- 5 -
by historical standards and is likely to be squeezed in the near future.
Credit availability to the private sector is restricted by the continuing
large public sector borrowing requirement, although in the absence of strong
private sector demand, this has not been a major constraint in the past.
Potential investors have considered current interest rates too high and the
investment incentive schemes are essentially designed to mitigate the per-
cebived high cost of capital for selected investments. Under the schemes,
economic viability is a prerequisite for larger investments and an important
factor in evaluating smaller ones. On the other hand, the new schemes pro-
vide only modest additional encouragement to exports and are not well-target-
ted; furthermore, they are potentially very costly to the Government.
14.       Measures to improve the conditions in the agricultural sector are
underway, but are slow in producing results. Credit needs to be expanded
further and focussed on production-oriented investments. The mechanism and
structure of agricultural lending rates needs to be rationalized to provide
appropriate incentives for long-term investments. While increased on-farm
investments are necessary, little will be achieved without substantial ad-
vances on the technical side as well. The extension services of the Ministry
of Agriculture, Commerce and Fisheries need to be upgraded, and their links
to research and to the farmers need to be strengthened. Recent efforts to
train agricultural manpower and the farmers themselves need to be intensified.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portu-
gal's need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and
for long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, Banco de Portugal has
obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank forF
International Settlements and European central banks. In addition, as of eMid
1981, total disbursed and outstanding IMF assistance to Portugal amounted tio
about $60 million.  The EEC, European Investment Bank (EIB), European Free
Trade Association (EFTA), as well as bilateral agencies have committed signi-
ficant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for long-term
projects. The Bank's contribution is summarized in Part II. In large part
because of Portugal's gold reserve, the Government and major banks and com-
panies are able to attract medium-term loans from consortia of commercial
banks in the Eurocurrency market. Recent terms provided eight years repay-
ment with interest rates as low as 0.4 percent over LIBOR. The Government's
efforts to stimulate direct foreign investment have resulted in large commit-
ments by Renault and by Ford and the promise of other substantial invest-
ments. Portugal will however continue to require sizeable external inflows
for the investment necessary to restructure its economy and finance its large
external deficits. The multilateral lenders, and in particular, the World
Bank and the EEC/EIB, will have to continue to play a vital role in helping
Portugal meet its capital requirements. In this respect, the pre-accession
aid proposed by the European Commission of about 275 million units of account
will play a useful part.



- 6 -
16.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term
debt (disbursed and outstanding) rose from about $3.7 billion at end 1978 to
about $6.6 billion at end 1981. Service payments on this debt, which
amounted to only from 7.9 percent of exports of goods and services plus
workers' remittances in 1978, almost doubled in percentage terms to reach an
estimated 14.6 percent by the end of 1981. Preliminary figures for end-1981
from Banco de Portugal suggests a total outstanding debt of $10.2 billion
(including $3.4 billion of short-term debt). The debt service ratio (MLT
only) is expected to rise to over 20 percent by the middle of the decade.
Although Portugal's total debt outstanding still remains at manageable
levels, it needs careful monitoring, especially in view of the rapid buildup
of short-term debt in 1980 and 1981. Given Portugal's gold reserves of about
22 million troy ounces, this seems a large but acceptable burden to carry.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
17.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal, during the period
1963-66, was concentrated in the power sector, in line with Government
priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing industrial
sector. The events of the more recent past have created special problems;
the transition to an open political system has revealed social and economic
weaknesses which are unusual for a relatively high-income developing
country. The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs by identifying, prepar-
ing and financing projects, and through economic and sector work.
18.       The proposed loan would finance the Bank's twenty-second project in
Portugal, the seventeenth since the resumption of lending in 1976. Bank
operations since 1976 involved two highway projects, three industrial finance
projects, two education projects, as well as one project each for water
supply, agricultural and fisheries credit, forestry, fertilizer moderniza-
tion, mechanical industries, energy conservation and diversification, rural
development, power, and petroleum exploration. Total Bank financial assist-
ance since the resumption of lending amounts to $714 million, net of cancel-
lations.
19.       As of September 30, 1982, total disbursements from loans made since
the resumption of lending in 1976 amounted to nearly $207 million. The 1976
Power loan and the 1977 First Banco de Fomento Nacional loan are fully dis-
bursed and closed, and the other 1977 loan, Highways I, is fully committed.
Looking at the 1978-1982 loans, projects involving direct lending to industry
are progressing well and disbursing without major problems, and development
finance company loans are proceeding satisfactorily. However, projects
directly implemented by the administration, or largely controlled by it, are
slow in execution and disbursement. The main reasons for this are admini-
strative weaknesses, such as insufficient coordination, as well as limited
experience in project preparation, implementation and supervision. As the
result of a thorough bi-annual country implementation review, in close con-
sultation with the implementing agencies and the Central Government authori-
ties, some of these problems have been attenuated; others are currently being
addressed by adjusting institutional components in project design. These



across-the-board reviews have proved useful and should lead to improvements
over time. Portugal's record on disbursements has lagged behind that of
other countries in the Region, but has improved significantly in the last
months. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and the IFC in-
viestment as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
lievels, the Bank is assisting the Government in reviewing policy and manage-
*          ment issues.  Economic missions and the discussion of their reports have pro-
vided a basis for a review of policy at the macroeconomic level. Reviews of
the water supply (together with WHO), education and agriculture sectors and
of manufacturing export industries were carried out and discussed with the
Government, and the corresponding reports distributed to the Executive
Directors. The most recent in the series of economic reports, "Policies for
Industrial Restructuring," was distributed to the Executive Directors in
August 1982. A transport sector memorandum will be discussed with the
Government shortly and a major agricultural sector survey will be initiated
in FY83.
21.       In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned
above, agriculture and industry have been identified as areas of concentra-
tion for Bank lending. The importance of developing the industrial sector
cannot be overemphasized since this sector is expected to be the main force
inl the Portuguese economy, to lead economic growth, continue the export ex-
pansion which started in 1978, and to maintain competitiveness in the EEC in
the years ahead. The main objectives of Bank lending to industry are struc-
tural reform, export promotion, employment creation (or preservation) and
promoting energy-saving investments. To address the needs of the agricul-
tural sector, the Bank has assisted the Government in creating an agricul-
tural credit institution and approved loans for a forestry project and an
irntegrated rural development project. The trained manpower requirements of
thie industrial and agricultural sectors, which constitute a serious bottle-
neck, are being addressed through the FY78 and the FY80 Education loans.
22.       The stabilization policies of 1977-1979, while initially contribut-
ing to the improvement of the balance of payments, have not permitted imple-
mentation of the development programs now urgently needed in many sectors.
Heavy dependence on imported oil, a rapidly increasing oil bill, three years
of drought and a recession in Portugal's export markets have again worsened
the balance of payments outlook.   If the restructuring needs of the economy
are to be tackled seriously and the pressing deficiencies in the social sec-
tors corrected, long-term external assistance will be needed to help
Portugal. It is the World Bank's objective to contribute to these efforts
and to provide advice on institutional reforms which are crucial for
Portugal's long-term economic objectives.



- 8 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
23.       Portugal's domestic energy resources consist of hydropower,
uranium, and small deposits of poor quality coal. Up to 1979, these domestic
sources provided about 28 percent of the nation's total primary energy needs,
with hydropower contributing about 20 percent. Due to three successive years
of drought (1980-1982), the proportion of hydropower to the total has fallen
precipitously and in 1981 amounted to only 11 percent. Of the total hydro-
power potential of about 27 TWh per year, under average hydrological condi-
tions, about half has been developed and another 10 percent is under con-
struction. Proven recoverable reserves of poor quality coal are estimated at
only 5 million tons, and lignite reserves are estimated at about 33 million
tons. Uranium reserves, estimated at 8,200 tons in concentrates, would suf-
fice to provide fuel for three 1,000 MW reactors for about 25 years. How-
ever, the decision to construct nuclear plants in Portugal is yet to be
taken. Portugal has good potential with regard to renewable resources such
as biomass, particularly wood, and solar and wind energy. At present, how-
ever, only wood serves as a significant source of energy, accounting for
about 5 percent of total energy consumption. Production and consumption of
fuelwood could be significantly increased, considering Portugal's existing
and potential forestry resources, both through better use of forest residues
and large-scale afforestation programs.
Energy Supply and Consumption
24.       Portugal's energy system was developed at a time when it had abun-
dant access to cheap imported oil; its electricity generation system as well
as its energy-intensive industries launched in the 1960s reflect this.
Portugal is therefore heavily dependent on imported crude oil and petroleum
products for meeting its demand for energy. In 1981, 83 percent of the total
commercial energy supply was imported, primarily in the form of crude oil,
petroleum products and some coal. Between 1973 and 1981, commercial energy
consumption increased by about 5 percent per year, while the oil import bill
increased from $100 million to about $2.4 billion. Per capita energy con-
sumption increased by more than 50 percent in the 1970s; nonetheless, it
remained relatively low at about 1,800 kilograms of coal equivalent in 1981,
compared with 7,600 kilograms of coal equivalent for the industrial market
economies. Total final energy consumption in 1981 amounted to 8.1 million
tons oil equivalent (MTOE), of which industry (including refineries)
accounted for about 50 percent, road transport for 28 percent, the power sec-
tor for 8 percent; residential energy only accounted for about 13 percent of
total energy consumption. Only about 88 percent of the total population has
access to electricity and per capita electricity consumption remains among
the lowest in Europe at about 1,440 kwh/capita.



-9-
Energy Pricing
25.       The Government sets both retail and ex-refinery prices for major
petroleum products. Ex-refinery prices are based on an import parity system
tc encourage efficient domestic refinery operations. Retail prices of indi-
vidual products have a two-tiered structure as is the pattern in many other
middle-income developing countries. Petroleum products for private use, such
as gasoline, are taxed heavily, while petroleum products used in key economic
sectors such as industry and power, as well as in public transportation, are
taxed less or, in some cases, were even subsidized in the past.  Another ob-
jective of the Government's pricing policy is to generate substantial tax
revenues from petroleum products which are then channeled through the Fundo
de Abastecimento (Supply Fund) to subsidize key agricultural and other com-
modities.
26.       Retail prices of gasoline have historically been among the highest
in Europe, and their contribution to sector revenues is substantial. As of
January 1983, the Government again raised the prices of petroleum products,
including those for fuel oil and diesel, the prices of which had fallen to
just below cif import prices in 1982, due to the steady devaluation of the
escudo. The Government also recently revised its system for setting ex-
refinery prices so as to better account for the financial costs associated
with imports of crude oil. The price for electricity has been raised
steadily over the last five years, averaging about 35 percent per year;
electricity tariffs were raised in January 1983 by about 29 percent, includ-
ing fuel adjustment provisions.
Energy Plan and Policies
27.       In response to the impact of rising petroleum prices and petroleum
product imports on the balance of payments, the Government is formulating a
comprehensive energy policy for the country. A detailed model of the energy
sector, constructed by a joint team of Portuguese specialists and staff of
the U.S. Department of Energy and being refined by the Directorate General of
Energy (DGE), has provided two basic energy supply and demand scenarios as a
basis for the draft National Energy Plan. The major goals and priorities of
the proposed National Energy Plan are to:
(a) develop economic domestic energy resources, including
petroleum exploration and renewable energy development,
particularly wood and solar energy;
(b) diversify the sources of primary energy, particularly by
replacing petroleum by other, less expensive, energy sup-
plies;
(c) promote energy conservation measures throughout the
economy. The Government's overall target implies 10-15
percent energy savings across the board in the economy by
1990; and



- 10 -
(d) continue to price energy products correctly, to promote
more efficient use of energy and domestic resoure-
development.
Sector Organization
28.        The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Exports (MIEE) has jurisdic-
tion over most energy-related matters. The DGE, at MIEE, is responsible for
the formulation and implementation of energy policies, preparation of energy
forecasts, review and coordination of investment plans, price setting, and
the establishment of energy conservation measures.  DGE also oversees the
activities of the three state-owned companies, Petroleos de Portugal
(PETROGAL), Petroquimica e Gas de Portugal (PGP), Electricidade de Portugal
(EDP). PETROGAL is responsible for exploration for oil and gas, and imports,
refines, distributes and markets about 80 percent of the petroleum products
consumed. PGP manufactures town gas which it sells at bulk rates to EDP.
The Power Subsector
29.        During the last 38 years the power subsector has been undergoing a
process of consolidation. By 1954, five companies were established with
Government participation--four for hydro and thermal generation and the fifth
for transmission; 14 large private companies were generating and distributing
power in concession areas and 161 municipal and private undertakings were
operating small local distribution systems. In 1969, Companhia Portuguesa de
Electricidade (CPE) was formed with 52 percent Government participation by
merging the four generation companies and the transmission company. In 1975,
the Government nationalized CPE and the large private companies, and in 1976
created Electricidade de Portugal (EDP) by merging CPE and the nationalized
private companies; to date 65 municipal and private undertakings were also
integrated with EDP. Although the same law also decreed that all private and
municipal distribution was to be integrated with EDP over time, due to strong
opposition from many municipalities, the integration process did not advance
as smoothly and rapidly as anticipated; 96 municipalities are still not inte-
grated into EDP. EDP currently distributes about 73 percent of all publicly
sold electricity, with the balance sold mainly by municipal undertakings.
30.        The Government has recently inaugurated a new strategy for distri-
bution which allows the municipalities to continue to distribute low voltage
electricity, but only if they charge the uniform national tariffs established
by the Government (see para. 34 below). Under the terms of a new decree law,
municipal operations, or a consortium of municipal operations can, if they so
choose, transfer their assets to EDP or to some other locally or regionally
based public enterprise for operation. This transfer could be arranged
either by the sale to EDP of the municipalities' distribution assets, or by
granting a concession to EDP or to a locally or regionally based public
enterprise, to distribute power in the area using the municipalities' assets;
under the second alternative, the municipality would receive a rent payment,
the level of which would be determined by the Ministry of Internal Admini-



- 11 -
stration and MIEE. This provision of compensation will also be applied
retroactively to the municipalities which have already been integrated with
E:DP. The financial terms of these transfers will be calculated taking into
account any outstanding debts by the municipalities to EDP. The Government
has also tightened up procedures for arbitrating any disputes about these
claims. It is expected that nearly all of the remaining municipalities will
integrate or arrange a concession with EDP. Through this process, EDP ex-
piects to reduce the high level of arrears currently owed by municipalities
(due to their practice of not charging customers at the full national tariff
level and not paying EDP for the bulk electricity supply), and establish a
sound basis for payment in the future.
Organization of EDP
31.       When EDP was incorporated, it faced a very difficult situation.
The staff it had adopted, although experienced and qualified, was employed
under conditions and salary scales that varied considerably. The reserve
margin of the generating facilities was already low, and new additions under
construction were insufficient to meet the forecast demand. The transmission
and distribution systems were weak and overloaded and power interruptions
frequent. Tariffs varied considerably from region to region and the politi-
cally strong municipalities refused to make full payments to EDP for bulk
electricity supplies. To make things still worse, hydrological conditions in
the first year of EDP's existence hit a low level which can be expected to
occur only once every 15 years. However, the young corporation lived up to
the challenge extremely well. It initiated massive construction programs to
catch up with the power needs of the country, standardized designs and uni-
form working procedures, unified a considerable collection of employees'
rights and privileges at the expense of sizeable increases in its wage bill,
initroduced a uniform accounting and reporting system, and introduced a mar-
ginal cost based tariff structure. EDP would have substantially complied
with the revenue covenant agreed under Loan 1301-PO had severe drought condi-
tions not occurred in three consecutive years 1980-82, a very rare occurrence.
32.       EDP is managed by a General Council and a Board of Directors sup-
ported by central staff departments for planning, engineering, and finance.
Operations are conducted through six decentralized directorates, one for
generation and transmission, one for equipment and four for distribution.
The managers of these directorates form the Management Committee which con-
trols and coordinates operations. Presently EDP is an extremely well managed
entity; its administrative and technical staff are of high standard and cap-
able of conducting the company's activities. Training is a built-in com-
ponent in staff development programs. Four regional training centers are
currently in operation, and a fifth one is under study. These centers pro-
vide a wide spectrum of training which is considered adequate to meet the
company's needs.
33.       Electricity Supply and Demand.  EDP's installed generating capacity
is 4,671 MW, of which 2,622 MW are hydro, 1,715 MW steam turbines and 334 MW



- 12 -
combustion turbine. The transmission system operates at 400, 220 and 150 KV
interconnecting the whole country and the Portuguese system with the European
system. Between 1976 and 1981, peak demand increased at an average annual
rate of about 7 percent, gross generation of electricity by about 6 percent,
electricity sales by 7.5 percent, and number of consumers by 11 percent. The
higher growth rate in the number of consumers is due to the integration of
municipal companies with EDP. In 1981 industry accounted for about 59 per-
cent of EDP's total sales, households and services accounted for 38 percent,
transport for 2 percent, and agriculture for 1 percent. EDP has prepared
several demand forecasts using various sophisticated programs, and has
adopted a forecast which assumes that demand would grow on average by about 5
percent per annum between 1982 and 1990. Its investment program is geared
accordingly.
34.       Electricity Tariffs.  Electricity tariffs charged to each customer
class are proposed by EDP and approved by the Government. Up to mid-1982,
these tariffs were set by the Government as the maximum tariffs that could be
applied by any power distributor, and municipalities in many cases were
charging their customers tariffs well below those set by the Government. In
September 1982, the Government approved a new decree law which makes it man-
datory that all power distributors charge the tariff levels set by the
Government. The same decree law establishes a schedule for increasing muni-
cipal tariffs lagging behind EDP's levels in August 1982, so that uniform
tariffs will be attained throughout the country by 1985.
35.       EDP's tariff structure is based on the principle of marginal costs,
and is uniformly applied to its customers throughout the country, and have
been increasing since 1976 at an average rate of 35 percent per year, repre-
senting an annual increase of about 6 percent in real terms. In addition,
EDP was allowed as of 1977 to levy a fuel adjustment charge to cover
increases in the price of fuels occurring between tariff revisions. EDP's
average tariff is estimated at about 78 percent of the average marginal cost
of supply, and this percentage is expected to increase as tariffs continue to
be raised in the future.
36.       Electricity tariff levels are computed assuming average hydro-
electric generation, based on a 30-year average of hydrological conditions.
To alleviate the financial consequences resulting from wide variations
between actual and average hydrological conditions, the Government created
in 1960 a "Thermal Support Fund" (TSF) as a special fund administered through
the accounting records kept by the separate generation companies. Operation
of this fund is based on the premise that surplus revenue in years of above
average hydroelectric generation should be set aside to cover the costs of
extra thermal power production and imports of energy from abroad in years of
drought. In 1976 when EDP was formed, the TSF was in deficit and with sub-
sequent drought years of 1980-1982, the TSF was not in a position to provide
the buffer to EDP's cash flow as it was intended. As a result, EDP was
forced to borrow to meet its requirements. The TSF was restructured in an
acceptable way in January 1983, to provide for (i) segregation of TSF



- 13 -
accounts from those of EDP, and (ii) imposition of a surcharge on tariffs
whenever the accumulated TSF deficit and finance charges amount to 15 percent
or more of EDP's annual revenue. The level of the surcharge would be set so
that any deficits of the TSF would be fully recovered within no more than
five years. The resolution also grants powers to the Minister of Industry,
Energy and Exports to approve such surcharges, while in the past additions to
tariffs (except the automatic fuel adjustment provision) had to be approved
by the full Council of Ministers. In addition, the resolution provides a
clear undertaking by the Government to make available, or cause to be made
available, loans to the TSF, whenever its condition so requires.
Bank Role in the Energy Sector
31.       The Bank Group has made six loans for power in Portugal totalling
$93.5 million. Five loans were made during the period 1963-1966, three to a
thermal generating company and two for hydroelectric generation. The sixth
loan was made in 1976 to finance part of EDP's 1976-1978 investment program.
Al1 projects were successfully completed. A project completion report for
the sixth project was prepared, which concluded that, thanks to excellent
management, EDP achieved all of the objectives set at appraisal except for
the self-financing objective; failure to achieve the self-financing objec-
tives was due to droughts, and thus was beyond EDP's control. In preparation
for the proposed project, EDP has taken steps to improve the functioning of
the TSF to be better able to cope with such situations in the future. The
Bank is also assisting with the modernization of the hydropower equipment
industry under the Mechanical Industry Project (Loan 1875-PO). The Bank made
a $20 million loan (Loan 2024-PO) to PETROGAL for petroleum exploration in
1981 and approved a $30 million loan to the Government in 1982 for an In-
diustrial Energy Conservation and Diversification Project (Loan 2168-PO).
Bank lending for energy in Portugal has not only provided investment funds
for the projects and helped attract financing from other sources, but more
importantly it has contributed to several major institutional changes;
(i) establishment of EDP and its development into a sound utility;
(ii) implementation of a revised rate structure for electricity taking into
account marginal costs of supply, (iii) rationalization of petroleum product
pricing, and (iv) launching of energy efficiency programs. Continuation of
the Bank's involvement in the energy sector would assist Portugal in develop-
ing further its indigenous energy resources and institutions, and carry for-
ward these financial policy improvements.
PART IV.  THE PROJECT
38.       EDP has developed a reasonable long-term forecast of energy and
load requirements for the period 1980-2010. Completion of plants presently
under construction would allow EDP to meet system demand up to 1986, with an
average reserve capacity of about 10 percent. Additional capacity of about
1,050 MW would be required to meet demand through 1992. The least cost solu-
tion for the additional capacity has been determined to be 450 MW of hydro
and 600 of coal-fired thermal. EDP has designed an investment program for



- 14 -
the 1982-1986 period along these lines and is seeking financing for the
1983-1985 activities. The proposed project, which consists of the entire
1983-1985 investment program, was appraised by the Bank in July 1982. The
project is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Portugal: Power Project VII" (No.3805-PO, dated January 27, 1983), which is
being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Lisbon, Portugal in
mid-December, 1982. The delegation from EDP and the Government was led by
Eng. Ricardo da Cruz-Filipe and Dr. Antonio Labisa, respectively. The main
features of the loan and Project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary
and in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
39.       The object of the project is to meet, at least cost, EDP's forecast
growth in demand while maintaining the required reliability of the system.
The project includes all facilities under construction in January 1983 or to
be started prior to the end of 1985. It involves work on the installation of
new generating plants with related transmission and distribution facilities.
Completion of hydroplants under construction during this period would event-
ually add about 1459 MW (or about 31 percent) to the system. One oil-fired
thermal plant (2 x 250 MW) would be completed and one (2 x 300 MW) coal-fired
thermal plant would nearly be completed. Two combustion turbines (2 x 83 MW)
would be installed at an existing thermal plant. About 564 km of transmis-
sion lines and 12,500 km of medium and low-voltage distribution lines would
be constructed, along with associated transformer capacity of about 4,700
MVA. The project would also provide facilities to connect 315,000 new cus-
tomers. Miscellaneous additional works involve expansion of testing and mea-
surement facilities, purchase of additional computer hardware and software, a
study for upgrading the existing computerized accounting system, and a study
for identification of possible nuclear plant sites.
Project Cost and Financing
40.       The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies and
interest during construction, is $2,732 million, of which $948 million would
be in foreign exchange. A physical contingency of 25 percent was applied to
the hydro components, and 15 percent to the thermal components. Lower physi-
cal contingencies of 10 percent were assumed for the transmission and distri-
bution cost estimates due to the continuous nature of these works. Prices
were calculated at end 1982 prices, and contingencies of 20 percent for 1983,
18 percent for 1984 and 16 percent for 1985 were applied to local costs, and
8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984 and 7 percent for 1985 were applied
to foreign costs. The contracts for the studies are being negotiated on a
lump sum basis.
41.       The proposed loan of $126.4 million equivalent would meet about 13
percent of the foreign exchange costs of EDP's 1983-1985 program (including
interest during construction), or about 5 percent of total requirements.
Financing for the project would be as follows: (i) foreign borrowings



- 15 -
about 33 percent; (ii) local borrowings about 38 percent; (iii) internal cash
generation and decrease in working capital about 25 percent; and (iv) Govern-
ment equity and customers about 4 percent. Financing of about $150 million
has already been arranged from the European Investment Bank and from other
foreign loan sources.
Project Execution
42.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to EDP.  The project would be
implemented under the supervision of EDP's well qualified and experienced
engineering staff, and EDP will be responsible for all aspects of project
execution, including installation and progress monitoring and reporting.
Civil works for the Crestuma hydroplant should be completed by early 1983 and
construction of gates, bulb units, etc., is progressing satisfactorily.
Invitations for civil works pre-qualification for the Alto Lindoso and Torrao
hydroplants and the general procurement notice for the equipment to be
financed by the proposed loan were published in October 1981.  Goods and ser-
vices amounting to about 35 percent of the proposed loan amount have already
been tendered under ICB. Detailed engineering designs for other civil works
to be undertaken in 1984 and 1985 and most related bidding documents are
ready. Contract awards and mobilization of contractors for civil works
associated with the Alto Lindoso and Torrao hydroplants will take place in
1984. Terms of reference for the studies have been agreed and the contracts
are being negotiated.
Financial Performance of EDP
43.       To achieve its financial objectives and to enhance its capacity to
support its large investment program through self-financing and borrowing in
the international markets, EDP has proposed and the Government has approved a
series of regular tariff increases. The specific undertaking to contribute
30 percent of its average power construction requirements from internal cash
generation was established as part of EDP's statutes and was recorded as part
of the revenue covenant of Loan 1301-PO. Electricity tariffs between 1979
and 1981 were almost doubled allowing EDP to achieve a 37 percent level of
cash generation in 1979. Due to subsequent severe drought conditions, EDP
achieved only a 15 percent level of cash generation in 1980, minus 28 percent
in 1981, and 3 percent in 1982. However, since the failure to achieve the
agreed self-financing objective was due in large measure to circumstances be-
yond EDP's control, and occurred despite substantial tariff increases which
were considered to be the maximum possible at the time, the Bank has accepted
EDP's performance as adequate.
44.       Internal Cash Generation.  The objective of attaining 30 percent
self-financing continues to be appropriate, in view of the need to raise
funds from the sector so as to minimize EDP's dependence on Government
resources and to improve EDP's financial strength to support the necessary
borrowing program. It is therefore proposed to build back up the level of
internal cash generation, defined as the ratio of EDP's net cash contribution



- 16 -
to the average value of EDP's investment program in electric power facilities
(mean of current and preceding year). EDP would attain a level of 10 percent
internal cash generation in 1983, 20 percent in 1984, 25 percent in 1985, and
30 percent in 1986, and thereafter (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05(a)). The
Government would take all measures to enable EDP to achieve these targets
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). This implies increases in average
revenue per kilowatt hour, including the effects of fuel adjustment charges
and the surcharge for the TSF, equivalent to 48 percent in 1983, and 25 per-
cent in 1984 and 1985.
45.       Debt Limitation.  Together with the internal cash generation
requirement, a limitation on the debt/equity ratio of about 1.5 would keep
EDP's assumption of long-term debt within acceptable limits and ensure an
adequate cash flow for debt service and construction requirements. Except as
agreed by the Bank, EDP would not incur any long-term debt if EDP's long-term
debt, including the debt to be incurred, would exceed 1.5 times its equity
capital (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04).
46.       Municipal Arrears.  The Government has put in place a satisfactory
series of measures to establish a sound financial relationship between EDP
and the municipalities, including means to pay municipal arrears which
amounted to over $300 million or nine months of revenues as of December 31,
1981 (paras. 30 and 34 above). After a lead time to complete the processes
now underway, EDP would ensure that its accounts receivable, commencing with
fiscal year 1985, would at no time exceed the equivalent of three months'
sales and the Government would take all measures necessary to enable EDP to
meet this requirement (Loan Agreement, Section 5.06; Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.02).
47.       Financing Plan.  Given the large investment program involved, it is
not feasible to have at this stage a financing plan with firm commitments
over the entire project period. EDP has provided a satisfactory financing
plan for 1983, which assumes foreign loans and export credit of about $170
million equivalent, suppliers' credits of about $50 million equivalent, local
borrowings of about $250 million equivalent, local and foreign bond issues of
about $95 million equivalent, and a draw down of about $28 million from the
proposed Bank loan. EDP would provide by end-November of the years 1983 and
1984, its annual investment program and financing plan for the forthcoming
year acceptable to the Bank; the financing plan shall include a phasing of
projected borrowing activities which would lead to (i) firm commitments by
June 30 from other sources of finance covering not less than 50 percent of
the required borrowings for the year; and (ii) identification of those
sources of finance from which the remaining balance of the borrowing program
will be obtained (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07(a)(i)). An interim report on
the implementation of the construction and investment program and the financ-
ing plan for the current fiscal year, satisfactory to the Bank, would be pro-
vided for each year of the project by July 31 of each year (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.07(a) (ii)). The interim report would include a listing of the
borrowings undertaken, or to be undertaken, the Government's explicit commit-



- 1 7 -
nnent for its annual contribution, and adjustments if needed to the construc-
tion program. If, when preparing the interim reports on the implementation
of the financing plans, it is determined that adequate funds to complete the
previously planned annual construction program will not be available as
originally planned, two options would be available: (i) the Government would
provide or cause to be provided adequate funds on acceptable terms for pro-
ject execution; or failing which (ii) EDP would adjust its annual construc-
ition and investment programs in agreement with the Bank (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 2.02). EDP's investment program is sufficiently large and diversi-
*            fied that EDP could reschedule without much disruption, leaving implementa-
tion of the core program financed in part by the proposed loan on schedule.
Accounting and Reporting
48.       Because of the work involved in unifying the accounts of EDP's con-
Stituent units, introduction of a new accounting system and the revaluation
of assets, EDP's accounting work was delayed in the past and its audited
accounts were submitted to the Bank about six to eight months late. This
delay was being slowly reduced, but with the integration of many additional
municipalities expected over the next two years, EDP's accounting work will
likely continue to be subject to similar delays. As part of a phased program
to improve the timely provision of audits, EDP would provide audited finan-
cial reports, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within
eight months after the close of the year for 1982, seven months for fiscal
[983, six months for fiscal 1984, and five months for fiscal 1985 and there-
after. EDP plans to computerize all detailed accounting records beginning
1985.
49.       Monitoring System.  A set of key indicators to monitor EDP's tech-
nical and financial performance were developed and agreed under Loan 1301-PO.
EDP would continue to implement this monitoring system (Loan Agreement, Sec-
tion 4.06).
Procurement- and Disbursement
50.       Contracts for civil works and supply of equipment and materials to
be financed by the proposed loan would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional bidding in accordance with the Bank Group guidelines for procurement.
A preference of 15 percent of the c.i.f. bid price or the applicable duties,
whichever is less, would be granted to Portuguese manufacturers of equip-
ment. The proposed loan would be disbursed against an agreed list of goods
composed of the following:  specific portions of the civil works contracts
for the hydroelectric plants of Alto Lindoso, Torrao and Crestuma; bulb units
for Crestuma; and specified list of site construction equipment, equipment
and materials related to transmission and distribution networks, measurement
and testing equipment, and computer hardware and software. The procurement
process was initiated in October 1981, and most of the tender documents and
some of the bid evaluation reports have already been reviewed by the Bank.
It is likely that some contracts associated with supply of site construction



- 18 -
and transmission and distribution equipment, the bulb units, and studies will
be awarded before loan signature. Therefore, retroactive financing of up to
$5 million is proposed.
51.       The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows: (i) 75 percent of
total expenditures for civil works associated with the Alto Lindoso, Torrao
and Crestuma hydroelectric plants; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and of local expenditures (ex-factory) associated with the purchase of bulb
units for the Crestuma plan; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and of
local expenditures (ex-factory) for site construction equipment; (iv) 100
percent of foreign expenditures and of local expenditures (ex-factory) for
the purchase of the agreed list of transmission and distribution equipment
and materials; (v) 100 percent of the foreign cost of measurement and testing
equipment, computer hardware and software and the consultant services; and
(vi) interest and other charges on the loan accrued on or before November 14,
1986.
Environmental Aspects
52.       The Portuguese State Commission on Environment, which is respon-
sible for ensuring that environmental factors are taken into account before
projects are approved, has reviewed and approved the project works. In addi-
tion to these Governmental measures, EDP is very conscious of the environ-
mental impact and relocation issues created by its projects. Accordingly EDP
conducts extensive and thorough studies of high standard and takes all neces-
sary measures to restore the affected sectors and remunerate in an equitable
way private parties affected by its projects. In view of the strict emission
standards imposed by the Government on conventional steam plants and EDP's
treatment of the issue in the past, no adverse environmental effects would be
caused by the proposed project. The Portuguese and Spanish Governments have
an agreement on the use of international waters and procedures to deal with
issues relating to the project have been put in place.
Risks
53.       The major physical risks facing the proposed project are those nor-
mally associated with the construction of hydroelectric plants. The measures
taken by EDP to reduce these risks to the extent possible are satisfactory.
In order to ascertain the safety of the dams to be constructed at Alto Lin-
doso and Torrao, EDP would engage, by May 31, 1983, an independent panel of
engineering experts, acceptable to the Bank, to review the design of these
dams, including the proposed monitoring instrumentation and procedures, and
conduct periodic reviews during their construction (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(b) (i) and (ii)). EDP would provide to the Bank, not later than June
30, 1984, the specific monitoring and inspection programs for the Alto Lin-
doso and Torrao dams and, at least one year before completion of these dams,
a plan providing the specific measures to be taken to implement these pro-
grams (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). Another risk for the proposed project
is that of unexpected delays in construction. In the past, project imple-



- 19 -
mentation has been somewhat delayed mostly due to procurement related pro-
blems. During appraisal special attention was given to procurement issues to
ensure that similar delays will not occur in the future. On the institu-
tional side, the major risks are associated with EDP's financial performance
which is affected by factors beyond the corporation's control. Provisions
for adequate safeguards are included in the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
(Loan Agreement, Sections 3.07, 5.05 and 5.06; Guarantee Agreement Sections
2.01, 2.02 and 3.02).
Justification
54.       The proposed project forms an integral part of EDP's least-cost
program for meeting demand through 1986. The demand forecast reflects a rea-
sonable forecast of economic growth. Due to the long lead time to introduce
nuclear power, the least-cost calculation was restricted to choosing the
optimal mix of hydroplants, oil-fired and coal-fired thermal plants and com-
bustion turbines. The alternatives of coal-fired and oil-fired thermal
plants were subjected to extensive sensitivity analyses and, under all likely
cases, the coal-fired plants were shown to be the most cost-effective.
55.       Since the project is part of EDP's overall expansion program, it
was not possible to isolate the benefits attributable to it alone. As a
result, the return on the whole investment program was calculated, and is
taken as a proxy for the return on the project. The economic rate of return
was calculated, based on the measurable economic benefits and costs, from the
viewpoint of the economy as a whole. The economic rate of return, based on
revised tariff levels, is estimated at 10.3 percent. If calculated on the
basis of existing tariff levels, it would be about 6.8 percent. Sensitivity
analysis was conducted by reducing the incremental generation of hydroplants
to reflect output corresponding to critical dry years, and increasing
simultaneously by the same amount the output of thermal plants. Under this
assumption the rate of return falls to about 9.5 percent. This methodology
of calculating the economic rate of return underestimates the actual return
to the economy, since benefits to consumers may substantially exceed the
regulated prices they are charged.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Electricidade de
Portugal, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. There are no special conditions of effectiveness.



- 20 -
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 28, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 21-                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9.AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              92.1                                 MOST RECENT                MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL       40.8               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                  EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   360.0       970.0    2370.0                    2323.9                  10328.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      460.1        921.5    1443.4                    2107.4                   7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8826.0        8628.0    9836.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5          26.2       30.6                     47.9                     78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         11.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          13.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        95.9         93.7     106.1                      83.3                    138.5
PER SQ. 10X. AGRICULTURAL LAND    182.4        200.7     239.2                     155.4                    509.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          29.2         28.4      26.7                      31.1                     22.7
15-64 YRS.                          62.9         61.9      63.2                     61.2                      65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    8.0          9.7      10.1                       7.7                     11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               0.5/c       -0.2/c      1.3                      1.6                      0.8
URBAN                                2.1         1.3        2.9                      3.5                      1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.1         19.9       18.2                     23.6                     14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        7.5         9.9        9.6                      9.2                      9.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.6         1.5        1.2                      1.6                      0.9
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..
USERS (PERCFNT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0        105.0      77.0                     116.0                    111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   118.4        134.7     127.1/d                  125.1                     130.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           80.1         92.8      84.1/d                    92.7                     97.1
OF WHICH ANDIAL AND NULSE        33.0         40.5      38.6/d                   35.9                      61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       9.0          4.3        2.3                      9.2                      0.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    63.3          67.1       70.8                     67.6                     73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            81.0         52.7      35.1                      65.1                     11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              28.9         34.5      65.0/e
IRBAN                              82.1           ..      90.0/e
RURAL                               14.4          ..      56.0/e
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1247.5       1057.9     698.0/d                  1105.4                    620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1421.8/f    1035.0      466.9/d                   634.4                    246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             182.9           ..     187.4/d                  286.8                     122.0
URBAN                              70.0/f       70.8      80.9/d                   192.0                    140.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..
4                                    ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         9.8       13.5/d                   20.0                      17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.9          3.7
URBAN                               4.0           ..
RURAL                               3.9           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.1          0.8
URBAN                                1.0          ..         ..
RURAL                               1.1           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              40.5         64.2         ..
URBAN                              88.5           ..         ..
RURAL                              27.4           ..         ..



- 22 -                                               ANNEX I
TABLE SA                                                Page  2  of  5
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEB49ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) W
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE               MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     ..         98.0      117.0/d                  102.9                     101.7
MALE                     ..         99.0      119.0/d                  107.1                     103.9
FEMALE                   ..         96.0      115.0/A                   99.0                     103.6
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     ..         57.0      55.Old                   60.2                       88.4
MALE                     ..         63.0      54.0/d                    66.4                      83.4
FEMALE                   ..         51.0      56.O/d                   54.0                       84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  46.4            33.6       16.5/d                   31.6                      18.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              34.0         33.6       19.1/d                   25.8                      20.3
SECONDARY                            19.0         16.6      22.9/d                   22.2                       16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          62.0         71.0         ..                     75.9                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           17.9         63.9      108.3/3                  51.0                      338.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           96.1        158.6      161.2                    157.2                    1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            5.2         45.1      123.1                    123.7                     403.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    63.2         86.1       62.7                    112.3                     331.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0             3.0        3.5                      4.0                       3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        3397.3       3386.7    3789.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     17.9         24.8      25.9                      36.6                      36.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                44.1         33.3       24.0                     38.7                       6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  29.0          33.2      36.2                      25.9                      37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  38.5         39.3       38.5                     44.5                      45.4
MALE                                   66.0         62.3       60.3                     56.3                      58.9
FEMALE                                 13.2         18.5       19.0                     32.8                      32.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.0        1.0                      0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            56.1/h.i  56.3/h                      ..                       43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          6.2]hi   7.3/h,                      ..                        5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         20.6       21.41                      ..                       16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..     480.0/d
RURAL                                  ..           ..     480.0/d                  406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1977;  /e 1975; /f 1962;
/S 1976; /h Highest 25% and lowest 25% and 50% of households;  /i 1968;  /. 1973-74.
* The 1981 World Bank Atlas shows 1980 GNP per capita of $2350.
August 1982



- 23 -                                                                        ANNEX I
DEFINTtION$ Oil SOCIAL. IgOICATOJ.S                                                       Page    3   of   5
NotCt;  Aititogh the d.ta are d.anEC ff...ourc. g.nnreiy lodged th.  -e  anth-itti- end rlal,it ah.oid al.  b. naad that they say notnoct
nationai1y compara.ble oncas  of Uth. tek of etngdrdi.ad difi"tan   and ...ncepee ocad by different... conri-L.sI  -11-eoing the date.  VTh. dat  ae.vo.
Chai.... oseful Co de...ib. .o4.ee of ennitude. indfct.t  trends, .nd  -bcaiacranmJor differenc. betwee  c....tCis..
Thet refernegou.a.I)t,:                  cutygr           fth u,c  ooutr, and2) a ..autr  g.ouy with  oeanhat higher ur-.g. iLcoe than the Cootnty groop
of tesbJec   onr   ac    fo C            0ghInco        oil tt   &tr'gCu-p ehr   Middl. 1ocom   norh Africaen  tid    Ps-t  L ch.... becaoe  of  -troger
ot  otiua   ffls.lcie.    it therferensgopdt  ta .nere..    ate poplaio  weiSht   atheti Caefor 0h iodIc....r and ehe  onlY when
ma-oity of Itheconraitagru  ha. into Eor that  Entto.  Sinc  the c- ge of conrisae   h  indicator. depends en the o-il.bhILty of data
an  I  not ouifot.e,. cttlo. anat he ouoiaed in relating  --atg. of Oeindica..tot  o  noher.  rhea. arrge   r  onty oasfol in oePertng the  uiu_ of
0.  diofioatr et a II-  emng the contry end ref.r....rope
ojiA (thonsed eq.k..)                                                                            Pouaion .t .. hortl hd -total.t -bn  ond rural -P Ppulation  (tota.
Total - Totai striate ooa coteogLad ara end iniard ....ere; 1979 doto.                           "ran  ad rurl) itidd Iyterreetn   ubro   opciha
E.itloai-ttime  of oRIcICtor1 area oced treporerily ornamoty                             syatlablo  npbi.n   rvt   ees.adtetiOdheis   n   e
forcros  paue.   ekt and kitchen fA.dea or to Ii. tahle; 1979 data.                            hebiliteto    str.1 .Haspitais arC.         oiihet  p -raatiy staffed
by  n Iea..  oo..  phyeiclo-   Zetbllabh-t.* prordid., pri-nciply oa-to-
CHP PtR CdPITA (US$)   GNlP P.r c.Pit. netimtaaO   utn   ektPrla.  a-ticoear   o Idlod                                                              byra   hpti .   phye. inclod  healthy
190  and 1900da.                                                                                  ediai  aieas nus. midwife, etc.)oInoffe  Inpttnenoa
datln and Pro-i4e a1haltd rang  of m-dlc.i fEtilten    For etata-
ENERGY COMtSUMTbIONt PER CAP ITA   A onc1 conmo-Pti.. ofcoarta  o gy )coaiCC. Pic                          . .u e ... he-b   hosPitais  ol.1ds Atg rW cpifeea  h-nPitaia,
led iirlin   petoleum   osral gs,an  bydr...-. ouc-o  and gea_ raieic-ad  ..taI hospitals, loca  or tots  hoepici  and   edicoi and naterity
Cytoltyl it kilogram  of coa IqLvlt peI            aia   9.17.Ad17                               center-  Spotlaiod h.sPitul. nra  Incided oiy ondr  te.1
from  hopil  diide  by the nmeof beds.
yopL'LATION AND5 VITAL STATISTICS
Total ftp.L.ti... gid-fY-  ;tlhaaendn) - nf JulY 1; 1960. 1970, nO  1980                     hoUSItG
data.                                                hoeruse Sins of Onusehoid (pnrmoet ner hotoashnid) - tonal. oban. an  rurul-
Urbn  opooton(pecet  f total) -  tatl  of utha  . t  tti..I popsianion;                   A   n loaoi  cnits o      rou  o  inivdul   .b ..r.i.ngq                .ter
differeot dnfiirin   of orban oen  map  ffant Coatuh.illty of latu                             an  thei  main mal..tA  hore ridger may or my s bthaincluded 10
amen  coutries; l9b0. 1970.  dn i9n0 date                                                      the ha... hoId for  Cttiti    poros
yoynl..ion Protect Lben                                                                        A-era   ete  ofntoe  a   om- C            oti.  rb-, . ad rua ..     aor nm
,porianiJon inj ver 2000 - Cu'rran  populatias p,ojeloes ara based on 1980                     her ofL.roepe   O I  all urban, sad rane1 ....pied  -anetional
Itol poplaion by  ge end nsn sd their   atilyedfertility  -atee.                            deeLine.  -epantlrly.  heellinge   elada non-peroat  nrttneud
Projection paramter  for ert1ity tseecoio   o  i.Pi     .bmh  leel  aesse-                   utocupisd parts.
iog lis. anpeCCrauCy enbiht   nrean    ith c..-try'. per c.Pit. 100055                    Adoo... to ftntlio t' (rrcee  of d- lInsf-toa,uban, and rural1
lenel. and femal  lfe I      tps,eey atabLietan   at (7.5 yt.rot.  Vhs para-               To.v.tt.n. .d-ILioga nLIt  aitr-ict   in ilong.quarte.g as p...e..ug
mae.frfrIltyot   Lso hone three  .eI.l  asueLtgd dsL.. in                            of tona.  _ree  ad   in  dwslingn  _eepetIlve
e-tility a-Cording to       -nte..1 sd pat family pla-nrg perforane
loch c...ntryI teh tbtaalnn   On f tbeaeioaoos.bistian   cf. ..          tala V.T
and fertility Coebde for projention potpe.                                                 Adil-nen   fnroL-so    ation
'Itatnat   -"cIuta   - it a  tuiny popletit.  there ig no gnth niee                           Pimar  nohnL - totuL. maLe  nd fEmaL. - true  Ctotl    atadf l
tbr  -ieth  rateiaequa  to che death rate, and also the  pgorn ra   -                          Cnro1ent of si age. at the r.      r  ee   oprrrgeo  remp.ctiva
neite cosat    his Is atbietd only eftar fortLfY C-tss droliust C.P, Carnhoo-age populations; nomlyincludes chitdren eqO b-il
lha rePlacement  Inol  f  n   -t r,prudnoio   st.nfs ot  deaertioyent  itt, :dLuntad for difforet lengths of pr i-ary eaa lfor
A   nst epoce  tsl  eoly   Te  teiCeY Pop,ltl.  ales L           as                    c_Attlsrtoivraedetnernmntayocd15pret
e.timet.d 00Ch tbeheel  of rho proJatted Cherceteic    fthe yn.Pnstc-                          nli_  na_ pupils ars below or abov  ths  ffi.iL1 aboof age.
io toe Fant 20DD, and the -ta of deLine of fertility  rate to  .ePI...-                      Sondery scho-i - total, -eel  and foesle - ComPuted nsahbre; er...dnry
sen  Inte. -ad-ctiourequ1reeatLnoa   four Yesr  of appr...d primary lEt..ruOitL.;
V.er  -COIusoY rotulatlon Le reanhed - The Year when ntatiomy pspultiion                         pr_ldes genera.   ttio..el, or temhsrtann.imroia  for pnDiin
P         U      Yacn sIlL het-he.                                                               ou-u1y of 12 to 17 y.mne of ege; ttrrnnpnndannuote   r   mna
Per on. km. - rid-Year peplation per sqorn kilnatet 1100 h..Ctates(of                        Voca..  nenolmet   rorent o feoeamf -.fnaloa ..Ineini
ctota   fra.; 1960, 1970 ood 1979da.Itod Zenatol,  ndut1id.  r oher1 proeram  hechp b     tpeae  lsdsped-
yetso.km.aeroalota1lad - Comutedaeahave for  gtticolt.rI. lsnd                          r-tlyore doatst   fLsteeyintttO
onY ; 1960. 1970 end 1979 data.                              ~P.ii-t!ssoht  et    - P"f.er.  an  etndt -:                                  - Total-4 egdt  eerelsd L.
otpulaloti  A-e Struotora. (r-er..t) - Children  (0-14 yeere).  -ekI g-... 115-                  Pr I,ar  an  mEno;drtY lers   divIded by numbers of tehers in the
64 yearn.). and ratire   (6S yanra an  ovr) s  peee s f ead-y.ar popo-                         ctrr-pondingi l.
atn;1960. 1970, aId 1980 dsa                                                              dl  ieaytt   prcent) - ILiCtert  adnit. (ebe to renCd end -I..)
l'oPol-t-o Gronh Rata (neront)  totu   -A--Iua  grnwh nets, of Ctota   id-                       snpretn            f tntsl adslt popal--e aged 15 ymarn and oref
feat populaion  for 19'0-6. 190-70  ned 1970-80.
Porulatlot Gonth gatg Ins-n) - orb- -  nA--I growt  rates of orhen poo-                      CONSUMPTION
lutlos fo  19)00. 160-70  and1970 1-Of... Panget Tare (p-r thonsed p.p.latioe) -P'..-ger cane comPrise   -tr
1rue  irt  hte  ne  t196ea7d  - Sano  Ion birth. p-r thouod of nid-reroas-nta   lame than, sigh  pesn;ecua   fuac..er                                              n
nopola.ti_; 1960. 19 70, ad 1900 data.                                                         sL irarY  nie.
Crode D.eth gate  (ost thou ...d  - dAbcu.l deaths per Chaua...   of sid-Y..r                  00db  ecivre(rrtbhnunsnd rP2uaIsnII    - kil types ofr. tor4a  radio
fnooi,;1960. 1970   i  1900 date.                                                       broadeestnoC elpulic per thonseed of population; enclnds 
Goos  up-rd-oti.oa. ht- Aneten   n5r. of daogbt-n      oa  silt hea  in                          lIcensd  _en_ver  in  -onsrie and inY_r  sh.. rsienratine of  .edi.
hernoe   r.pCodnotls period If shenperince  prsn  aesed  tfo-nt-w It  efc;dat   o  ratyent  ma -Y   t he tmpara.bie eLtos
tiliy  ros.;osuaty  fvn-asr  reraes  ndin  in  960  197. m   1990                 me  cootte   bolished 1Lcnang
TiiyPuhn  -Acnos  Atnoe  (thons!Are    A- ncI  tnn  of aocp.rtt                                TVtcCsm(e   h-..Mr Pnu..tIIol - TVtennc   Ear hrnndcss  to
of birth-rntro1 devices .Wda, a-nPc.. of osi lfamIly planning prnarn                           genra  PuaiC per thensnd pupulaion; soluden alicane-d TV recivers
randy Pleenine - le-r  (cmn f  -etd                       I..m.. PeCentag  of rmaridi Loatranen  in Y::re shar-                         itato    f TV mete se  in effct
woe   fchild-bssttoe age 115-44 yaare) she  bs itth-oonsrnl  dsi... to                 noesrare  Clrcslatin- fear then-ead penlttio)-   Sham  the a-e-gsar
allmeied wom  in sae  g  gop.                                                                Wuaigo   dIygnrlitrs   eeee"   eined asapen idic
pulicatio   derntd primerily to recrin  Serlne,Iiscndrd
rOn OD AND NU`rRTItN                                                                               toI he  detty' If It oppeea at Isea.t ZsarCime-  :ieb.k
Ine. of Pond Prndnotionn   Carit. (1969-71.10           1.ira  of per cepIt.   -Ioe            GInsm Onnl ACttsedann  Pt Clante p.r fear -  eand - the number of
pronuntio    f  ltfond C_mdItisa.  F- dntle  sciade  see..d and f se  a_d                      ticle- sold during the year,.. incuing umse eta drive-in co-
La on cain f 'ynn haste.  Tomaditi.e hono  pn.e-Y goode (e.g.  -netossdmbil. _nitm.
ineted of scgan) shich emstedible ondcoti  ontint                g. Coffee aed
tasreeC. _iodedS.  Aggr,at  pru:duatls of sach oeuetry L. based on                        LAgOS FORCE
-atlons  acetgs podcer  ric  wights; 1961-65, 1970. and 1990 deta.                          Total Labor Port  (th-nead.) - fu-oloil.y a.ttlo   penense  toclading
Per capita suCry f1     uora   (Crarest ofrqaetf    -CamPutd fro                                 armed forCe. and aepae   n   eldn    nsene   tdte   t.
noerIgy eqnlrelnnt f Fe  lanfd sa.pplis svll-     l  inc-try peCept                            trrleg poPeletlon of etl uge.  hafinittaei   ain    un                    r
p.r dsp.  Avoitabte suppis  rp      ,a omeU  podotion, inperts las                             not poo...rbla; 196). 1970 and 1980 data.
enot. ad oh"nge  In afoo,  net .nppllae eslod* semI feed. esedn,                          FemaI. (earnt) - tws tahoe f..ne.   pe.           etae  f Ltuga  iebar fare..
qnaotiels and is food P_so..L.e. end tI.-n  L  diafbtn.   geur-Agri talan    (P.-c) - labo.r forte isUam. f                                         orLg retry    atn   anbt    d
mate  -seetimagadby PAO besed os physiLagItal- -sd. fo-  --Ime  ati-                             ifsehing ee parceet.e of tntl labse  torn.; 1960. 1970 and 1900o date.
vIny andheathC osadeing sntrometal temparanur .hidy weightn. age                               I.duetr  (nernet) - taher forteLi minge.%cegets.   aoetrn
and em   istriLbnaio of pop.ti.tla. and 51105mg to peroet for nssa ansa  sentri.lty.  -ater end gee .e p.....t.gs of ftal labor fame-;
houseold  evel  196-65.1970 ou  1977 data.                                                 960.  90edig   aa
erCano  snl  of O        1tei  (ra":   Ie day1) - Protein ostant of per ..pit.               atocatght  lets_s.tS)   t ...a. maIn, and femei  - P-rtioipetio  or
ne  npply of food Per da.O apply at food L. defined es above.  -                            notiityrs.t.. aratt.ted as total, male, and f mal  labo  tome a
qurmnefor all oontien .atblished by USDA prootd. for sleim                               percentages of tonal, main and female pop1atin  ofalt ages respe-Ively;
alteene  of 'hI  grm   f ton-l prneI. per day ned 20 area-  ofenm         nd                1960.1970,. ad 1900 duts.  Thee are based o   1    pantioipatia  rotan
pus Lri., of ohich 10 gra   hbald he anima  pestein.  Theme stn-fletting  aesen enntcn  ofthe  - uapl.tion, od lute time trend.A
ard. a   lo-   than then. of 75 Sr-a  of tnt1 protin end 23 gra   of                           feeeti.    a  are tram  ntionl  nrns
aimal protein .  an -0 g. Eor the aild. propo..ed by FAO) J. the ThIld                      Ec-ooml  ysedo tyStin-"It.o nf ppeletien ordr IS an  hi and os
OnvldrotASuc.ny; 1614 0,190 an  i9t7 date.                                               ttmhtLlbor fnrc.
Poecet rrten  ut   fo  animal and roles - Prain  supply of f.sd do
ri_ed from  a_ll  and p.1... In SCam   per dy; 1961465, 1970 an  1977 da.                 INCOME ISiTRIBtUTIfON
ChildCae 1-0  bet hate (tsr tJuanend) - dA--I daathe per thatead InWrrtg   fPlaetcm   lbob  In cah1                                            d  id    - harelve   yo riost
agearop  -4roas,to children i. thi. as. grop; for mas  developin  con                      pret I I%inhest 20  ecn.pn t2  prnen. and Porest 40P pret
Vriea oata derived fo lif. tbe;1960. 90edtg    at,o   nahis
HEALTH                                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
-ids toPet-Incy attrt                 A,at) -Arrge voter of rests of lifs r-elicia             The  olan   aimte  are very appro..mate m               s .,f povery lreIn1
athlth  (.97.19)  en   90 deli                                                               an  hd h-          Iney Ltdcth c-nid.rshe  atia
Inat ItCt c hae  pe  th-nod) - Ann,-l deacha of infanna under on  yanr                    Esriatd Abenlote P-yrtY Inco         L Levl (US   et.  tia  -r-nIt
Acteas to Oaf Otd (p.rC..t of P.rian1ol -totl o .rb.. and ruru  - on-                            ounr IClooa1   d.dqnst  dire plu .. ....tia1 noe-food yaquirsant  inou
her of Ppeol   nl,      urban, and rural) with .......ableacs  no  afe                         afodal..
vetorso.Pp  lioluaetree ted outface nete .         rontreata   ho         ... ononteinne     Etimled Rslative Pnoertt Incom   Levn1 (0S$ cn- capita) -urban oO ur.rl 
eater snob s  that from prtnc sd hbr!heles. sPrigs  ned. saiaY wells  as                       toalreut    povatty inom  Isol L.....on-hir'           fanneprctt
peooae   f their reapectlt  p.pul.ti.es.  In anaranara   public                        p.r       I--a-o   of che country.  Urb.. 1-o1I  detod frmC         h  rurs1
cf tino -       danpotI .oot.  no1 t mra tha  20  senrs utr   e bones soy be.                 l     Ithadnimntfr  one  cost of tlintg in uhnb aea.
resoslnosaol  19610 tIet the h -n- -wlf. or sesora of Chr hounehld                   and rural   P.-Prn  of ptpulattoe  (uhn  end itel)  h r  'aeout
doco  hav  to sped            - di -rooet.nst  Por f rho dayL nfetCcler the                    p.nr".
Numr of Pple (totol, urban. end rura) nerved by ocret  dlpoolo
pnrntgso  the ir ta        poncspoIti-tle         f-.r.t  disposal sa-y  .inldo
teC%   letn   an  di.possl. -ih on sient  rstm e  Of hIese   Cte
and onst-met- by nntr-hnrn  sy-te    or  h.s  -  of pit priti*. end ii-
Ponoinnin osr Physician - ?.,.Iltiandividad by tu-i- of prentising rhyac-                                                            tI-sel  end  oct1 ha.  lis"iu
cLr   ulified from a medloal nobool  et .eivrit,  sh                                                                    tct._.d. anltsd Pro)eni..n Departee
Pneinto  re  SrensPer ot - Poptclagio  divided hy numbe  ofMatigny 1982
male' and femal   grdeeaaa   einn_  vUre.paintnean
ntrin  esitlete .    n..                    ..prtc1.r                    -



- 24. -
-. 24 -ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Am0oants in Millions of US Dollars)
Actual                    Annual Growth Rate (%)                                  Share of GDF at
1980                              Actual                       Est.    Market Prices (Current Prices)
L$i=Lsc. 50.062)    1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980    1981              1960   1970   1975   1980
NA,IJbNAc AGclU,Nei
,uco,  D.i-oxtic Prod-ct a/               24,077         -4.3    6.9    5.6    3.2    4.5    5.5          1.4    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
A,ri.ultur-                                2,781         -6.5   -1.5  -10.0    4.0    9.0    3.0    -5.0           22.7   16.2   14.2   11.S
i-ousty                                    8,122        -9.5    4.6    9.5    3.2    5.0    6.0           1.5      34.5   30.4   31.1   33.7
S4rviccs                                  11,033         -0.2     9.8    6.0    2.8    3.3    5.8         4.5      35.4   43.2   45.7   45.8
.o ovsupticie ci                         21,486         0.3    4.1    2.5    1.1    1.8    4.8           3.5      87.8   83.3   96.2   89.1
,r-ox  l-sestmint                          6,043        -45.3   29.7   34.7   -4.7   -2.1    12.1         6.1      18.5   23.5   16.4   25.1
.xports uf GNFS                            6,768       -15.6     0       5.9   14.6   27.3    8.2    -3.4          16.6   23.4   19.7   28.1
Mrportx .c UNFS                           10,228       -25.3    3.4   12.0   -1.8        7.8    9.6       3.8      22.9   30.2   32.2   42.5
(7r-s -Natcul S-icigs                      1,984        -61.9   58.3   55.3   17.2   27.5    7.7   -16.7           16.7   25.5    3.8    8.2
Prices
,Lce of lotiatiui (Ionsuner Price loden)              16.1   16.3   26.0   19.3   24.3   17.0    20.0
txculalige Rate c/                                    25.55  30.22  38.28  43.94  48.92  50.06   61.5
Msxct-.ANDLlot IlhADt                                    Annual Growth Rates at Constant 1970 Prices                      As Percent of Total
1970   1975   1980
Impurts                                    8,786       -23.1   18.0   12.8   -2.1   6.7          9.0      3.1            100.0  100.0  I00.0
ijec                                      1b7        -20.9   19.7   -7.5   -3.1  16.9          8.7     4.6              11.0   16.6    9.3
wcllrr  cunscoor (oods                    534       -26.5   10.9  -23.9   -9.7   4.1    10.9           5.2               9.3    8.3    6.1
retrolcum Products                       2,189        -7.5    6.7   -1.5   10.6  15.3          2.5      1.6               9.5   16.4   24.3
Iocerneaiate Goods                       3,292       -23.9   28.8   19.4   -3.5   3.3    10.9           1.8             41.5   36.8   37.5
upitu  Dooas                             2,004       -27.5   18.4   26.7   -5.8   3.6    11.0           5.9             28.6   21.9   22.8
LEpurts                                    4,86        -16.0    4.3    4.1   11.1  29.3          7.1     3.9             100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculturc and Fuood                      553        -0.3   17.8    1.3    3.6  15.3    -1.0   -10.0                    20.9   16.8   12.1
Woco, Gork, Paper and Pulp                 813       -17.8   28.0   -3.8    3.3  28.2    17.3   -10.0                    16.1   15.9   17.7
lcxtiies as.d Cletuing                   1,154       -18.4   -b.7   -0.5   22.1  26.2    -8.0          0.0              26.4   27.3   25.2
Petroleum Prodcots                         288 )    -17.1    0.5   11.0    9.6  33.6    50.0    -8.0                              -      6.3
itlier Nanui-ctures                      1,778 )                                              13.0      1.0             36.7   40.0   38.8
MERChANDlSE TRADE INDIGES                                                    1975=100
Export Price Index                                   100.0  107.1  145.1  179.0 229.1   315.7    95.9
Import Price Index                                   100.0  111.4  143.9  177.5 240.0   381.0   102.5
lerms ot Trade Index                                 100.0   96.1  100.8  100.8  95.5    82.9    93.6
Current Prices (Billion Escudos)                         As Percent of GDP at Market Prices
Est.
P1UbL64  FPNANGL                                                                                                   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
'.rrent Receipts                                      93.2  127.1  173.6  212.2  264.3  361.8    450.2    24.8   27.2   27.9   27.2   26.9   30.0   31.2
Current Expenditures                                 102.6  153.3  182.1  238.5  302.2  407.0    524.6    22.6   32.8   29.3   30.6   30.7   33.8   36.4
-urrent Surplus/Deficit (-) of the State              -9.4  -26.2   -8.5  -26.3  -37.9  -45.2    -74.4    -2.5   -5.6   -J.3   -3.4   -3.9   -3.8   -5.2
apstal Expenditures (Net)                             12.4   19.3   34.5   39.1   42.7   64.8           69.2      4.4    5.0    6.0    5.0    4.3        5.9    5.4
Net Pinancing Requcrenents                            21.8   45.5   43.0   65.4   80.6  110.0    143.6            5.8    9.7    8.0    8.4    8.2    9.1    9.9
Financiog Needs                                       17.4   48.9   44.7   75.8   97.1  131.1    162.5            4.6   10.4    7.2    9.7    9.9   10.9   11.3
beDt A-ortizatioo                                      4.4   -3.4   -1.7  -10.4  -16.5  -21.1 d/ -40.4            1.2    0.7    0.7    1.3    1.7    1.7    2.7
LABOR FORCE                                                              TOTAL LABOR FORCE e/
In Thousands                                Percent of Total                         Anneal
Ext.                                           Est.         Growth Rate(%)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981              1977   1978   1979   1980    1981                1979-80
Agriculture                1,263   1,187   1,174   1,158   1,090              33.4   31.8   30.9   29.9    27.3                 -1.4
lndustry                  1,250   1,283   1,330   1,382   1,446               33.0   34.4   35.1   35.6    36.3                 +3.9
Services                  1,269   1,259   1,290   1,337   1,450               33.6   33.8   34.0   34.5    36.4                 +3.6
Total                   3,782   3,729   3,794   3,877   3,986              100.0  10D.0  100.0  100.0   100.0                  2.3
a!  At market prices.  Sectoral components are expressed at factor costs and will not
axd due to exclusion of net indirect taxes end subsidies.
b/  Statistical discrepancy is includea in the consumption data.
c/ Exchange rate at end 1981 US$I=Exc. 65.0.
d/ Estimated.
e/ Total employed labor force excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
(0340G)



- 25 -                                                                              ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars at Current Prices)
Ac tualIE  
Bat.
tLt4MARY OF BALAhl.C:  OF PAYM4 NTS     1973  1974  1975  197b  1977  1978  1979   1980   1981
Exports (F.0.8.1                      1843  2238  1936  1790  2001  2379  3550   4575   4228
Lspurts (F.O.B.)                      2745  4277  3606  3965  4533  4787  6182   8781   9280
-roa Brdal-aoe (X-M)                  -902 -2039 -1670 -2175 -2532 -2408 -2632  -4206  -5052
Net los-Factor Services               67   -74  -170       54    82   276   541        568    417
1o-rise  Receipts (Gross)          (550) (513) (360) (327) (403) (592) (942) (1148)
Resource -Blance                      -835 -2113 -1839 -2121-2450 -2132 -2091  -3638  -4635
hrt ivusstrent Iocome a/                86   129   -14  -133  -179  -329  -437    -617   -899
Net Tracsfcers b/                     1097  1111  1037   964  1134  1635  2476   2997   2824
00.05cre cal csurrc or Account         J41  -873  -817 -1290 -1495  -826   -52  -1258  -2710
lirect Fcreigl  Lnvestmoet             110   109   122       51     52    56      59     100    -
,lic-g-s is Oft-cial Liquid
coreug' Exchasge Reserves
I- = Ilocceaso)                  -345    554   688    128   359  -103   -68           58     190
OLciccul Reserves
-ross bLos    Year c/               2839  23j5  1534  1301  1391  1880  1951    1815
ot -01-c:  uold                     11b3   1193  1136  1125  1025  1009  1020    1020    ''
Forc-go ussau-ge       1641  1125   390    166   366   871    931         795
Actual
Est .
GkAN'T ANID LOAN GGMMllMENTS                                                                           DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE d/          1975 1976 1977 1978 1979  198C  1981
Utrlsla, Gr[ats a-d Gralt-ike          -              3    -       -      -      -                   Total Debt Outstanding
and Disbursed -
Pobls-  obLI Loa-s                                                                                     Public Debt Only               1060 1343 2185 3699 4998  5625  5712 e/
LBRD                                -       '            36    74   131   143   134               Isterest on Public Debt             37   41   78  149  311   45C   641
IDA                                       e-              -     -      -      -      -            Rpayments on Public Debt            75  102  140  257  417   538   60b
JLto-r Mlotilateral                   I             4   123    87    86        69     96          Total Public Debt Service           112  143  218  406  728   988  1247
-overasests                           7            71   124   314   915   237         91
S.pplcers                          207             55    41      62    53       1   106
Pfblic Debt Service Ratio   3.0  4.1  5.4  7.9  9.5  10.2  14.6
FPisauccI Markrts                    74    '      91   388   396   744   700   659
Pusli   as Loans  u.                 -
Total Pablc M&LIS Loans                51   460   224   712   933  1929  11.50  1086                Average Terms of Public Debt
(Grant Element)                 9.1 11.1 12.9  4.5 -2.8    0.4    -
Debt Outstanding    Dcber 31, 1981                         Interest us Public Debt Y          7.6  6.3  6.8  7.6  7.5   8.1   9.7
EXIERNAL DLBT                                  Disbursed Only              Percent
IoRD                                                132                    2.1                      Anorticatios as % Priur
IDA                                                  -                      -                          Year Public DOND                      9.6 10.4 11.8 10.4  10.8
UOtM. Maltilaterac                                  338                    5.3                       IBRD Debt Outstanding
Csvarsrsects IRsiureral Loans)                     1316                   20.6                         and Disb -rsed                 39.0 35.6 32.2 36.1 63.1 109.4 132.0
cappluerL-   Erecdts                                347                    5.4                       IBRD DObD as Y Public Debt
Fssascial Institat-o-s                             3519                   56.0                         Outstanding and Disbursed    3.7  2.7  1.5  1.0  1.3   1.9   2.5
Total Pabllc and Pabllcly Guaranteed Debt   5712 eI                       89.4                       IBRD Debt Service as Y
istal Publ-c ass Private HbLT Debt f/               6-802                  100.0                         Public Debt Service              5.7  4.3  3.1  1.9  1.8   2.0   2.1
a/  Largely Interest payments.
b/ Largely wsrkers. remittances.
/  Gola, Llatiosal Valuation:  Special Drawing Rights, 35 per fine tray ounce and converted to US dollars.
December 1980 stock of 22.13 million ounces would give about $9 billion, valued at $400 per ounce.
a!  DeSt serv-ce as a ratio of earnings from esports, non-factor services and workers' remittances.
e/ Estim-to for publc debt and publicly guarasteed debt ($5712) based on Treasury data processed by the World Bank Debt Reporting System.
fl  Estimate from the Bank of Portugal; includes $220 million of private non-goaranteed debt.
Not available.
Earope, Middle East and North Africa Regio-
November 19, 1982
(340G)



- 26 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
As of September 30, 1982
($ million)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
Loan                                                        Amount (less cancellation)
No.  Year      Borrower                 Purpose                Bank      Undisbursed
Six loans for power development and one for
industrial finance fully disbursed                       139.5           -
1334 1977 Republic of Portugal       Highways                  24.0             6.1
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal       Water Supply              40.0            30.1
1559 1978 Republic of Portugal       Education I               21.0            18.9
1603 1978 Republic of Portugal       Agricultural Credit       70.0            69.0
1649 1979 Quimica de Portugal E.P. Fertilizer Industry         58.0            11.7
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal       Highways II               40.0            36.1
1701 1979 Republic of Portugal       Small and
Medium Industry          45.0           33.8
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal       Education II              40.0            39.9
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal       Forestry                  50.0            41.3
1874 1980 COMETNA a/                 Mechanical Industry       33.4            27.7
1875 1980 SOREFAME a!                Mechanical Industry        9.6             3.6
1942 1981 Second Banco de Fomento  Development
Nacional                   Finance                 100.0           90.6
2024 1981 PETROGAL                   Petroleum Exploration   20.0              17.3
TOTAL                                               690.5 b/       426.1 b/
of which has been repaid                            72.9
TOTAL now outstanding                               618.6
Amount sold                           2.6
of which has been repaid            2.5              0.1
TOTAL now held by Bank c/                           618.5
TOTAL undisbursed                                                  426.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Year        Obligor               Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1981 SPI Sociedade Portuguesa   Development Finance   10.0          1.5     11.5
de Investimentos             Company
a/ Loans to two companies under the same project.
b/ Excludes $4 million of 1432-PO for BFN I and $1 million of 1875-PO for
SOREFAME, which were cancelled, as well as the $30 million Energy Conser-
vation and Diversification and the $51 million Tras-os-Montes Rural De-
velopment projects which were approved by the Executive Directors in June
1982 but not yet signed.
c/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I Project; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: July 8, 1977; Revised Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Despite start-up delays in procuring equipment, appointing consul-
tants, and preparing subprojects, all aspects of the project are now pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The road rehabilitation components and the pro-
curement of equipment are expected to be completed by June 30, 1983. The
national transport plan and the highway master plan are substantially com-
pleted. The first engineers have completed their overseas post-graduate
training. The closing date was revised for the second time to September 30,
1983.
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Effectiveness Date; January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
The main physical component of the project, a 90 km transmission
pipeline, is progressing although with considerable delays, as is work on
the related pumping stations which is also behind schedule. A feasibility
study of water supply and sewerage in the Porto Region has been completed.
Steps have been taken to clear up the municipal arrears and some improvement
has been made. A new Board for EPAL was appointed in January 1982, which
has made major improvements in EPAL's financial management. Tariffs were
increased in March 1982 by about 45 percent on average. The investment pro-
gram was tailored to concentrate on the project works. Due to delays in
contracting, a two year extension of the closing date is likely to be
requested.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effectiveness Date; September 6, 1978; Revised Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Architectural designs for all project institutions, including
management training centers, are now underway; construction of the voca-
tional training centers has been completed and the centers are operational.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
porgress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Equipment procurement lists have been approved and most draft contracts
negotiated, but all are not yet signed. Technical assistance is being
recruited on schedule; studies have been substantially completed. The clos-
ing date has already been extended by one year to December 31, 1982 and if
implementation continues to progress satisfactorily, a further extension will
be considered.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70.0 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Progress in implementation of the agricultural credit component
remains slow. Excess liquidities in the banking system have so far sharply
limited recourse to IFADAP refinancing. The Government is preparing a pro-
posal for restructuring the project, to streamline the credit approval
system, expand the project area, adjust the interest rate structure to esta-
blish a constant interest rate over the life of the subloans and increase
short term rates above medium- and long-term rates, and eliminate other
credit facilities from the area which offer different terms. It is likely
that a large portion of the loan could not be utilized by the current closing
date, and may be cancelled.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project; $58.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Physical project implementation is progressing satisfactorily,
about three months behind schedule, with the urea plant already commissioned
and the Alverga nitric acid plant undergoing start-up tests. Procurement of
Bank-financed equipment is completed and the corresponding loan funds are
fully committed. The fertilizer study has been completed. Although the fer-
tilizer operations show some profit, Quimigal continues to experience finan-
cial problems, especially in non-fertilizer operations, and its position is
under review by the Bank.
Loan 1700 - Second Highway Project; $40 Million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a slow start, progress on rehabilitation works is now pro-
gressing. Twenty-eight of the 60 road sections to be rehabilitated are under
construction. Training programs are under preparation. Budgetary con-
straints have delayed project implementation, which is now nearly two years
behind schedule. The Government is taking measures to relieve the budgetary
constraints.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan 1701 - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project; $45 Million
Loan of June 27, 1979, Effectiyeness Date. August 29, 1980; Closing, Date:
December31, 1983.
A substantial amount of the SMI credit line has been committed.
Participating banks have shown renewed interest in the credit line, due
mainly to the Central Bank taking steps to facilitate its use. A revision in
the rental policy of the Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates (EPPI) has
been made to ensure better returns on investment; however, EPPI is experienc-
ing delays in budget support and construction works; the Government is likely
to reallocate funds from EPPI to the SMI credit line. The technology study
and procurement on other technology items are progressing well. The textile
study has been completed, but the Government has decided to abandon the
export promotion study. An extension of the closing date is likely to be
requested.
Loain 1793 - Second Education P~roject;_ $410 Mil~lion Loan of Apryil1,  1980_;
Effectiveness Date: July 10,  1980; Closing Date. December 31, 1984.
The Project Coordination Group has been established, and equipment
procurement is progressing well. Inter-ministerial working committees are
working well which should improve implementation of the civil works
components. Curricula and syllabi are either completed or under
development. Implementation of the technical assistance program is on
schedule.
Loan 1853 - Forestry Project; $50 Million Loan of October 2, 1980; Effective-
neiss Date: March 2_ 1981_ Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The Project Coordination Unit has been established and is working
effectively. Satisfactory progress is being made on the acquisition of land
and the afforestation program. Equipment for the 1981-1983 afforestation
seasons has been procured and delivered. Despite initial delays, the techni-
cal assistance program is now going well. The Agricultural and Fisheries
Credit Fund (IFADAP) is gearing up to process subloans to cooperatives and/or
associations of private forest owners soon. Extension workers are still
needed for the forest extension service so that specific investment projects
can be prepared.
Loans 1874 and 1875 - Mechanical Industries Project; $33.4 Million Loan to
,COMETNA and $9.6 Million Loan to SOREFAME of October 2, 1980; Effectiveness
date: December 29, 1980; Closing Date; December 31, 1983.
Physical implementation of the COMETNA project is progressing well
after a six-month delay due mainly to a change in site location. Site pre-
paration is now nearly complete; contracts have been awarded for civil works,



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
and buildings and procurement are progressing well. Mechanical completion is
expected by August 1983. Physical implementation of the SOREFAME project is
progresing well and should be mechanically completed by the end of 1982; all
equipment packages have been procured and the management study has been com-
pleted. Due to lower than expected equipment prices and favorable exchange
rates, project costs were lower than expected; at SOREFAME's request, $1 mil-
lion of the Bank loan has been cancelled. The engineering industries sub-
sector study has been delayed and should be completed by early 1983. Techni-
cal assistance components are proceeding.
Loan 1942 - Second Banco de Fomento Nacional Project; $100 Million Loan of
March 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Appraisal of subprojects and commitments are underway; however,
BFN's portfolio and arrears position remain a problem and are deteriorating.
The export promotion plan is underway, but the targets may be jeopardized
because of the unfavorable global economic climate. An in-depth view of
BFN's operations is scheduled for October 1982.
Loan 2024 - Petroleum Exploration Project; $20 Million Loan of September 2,
1981; Effectiveness Date: March 1, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Data acqui-
sition for the two seismic surveys is complete and the surveys should be com-
pleted by October 1982. Drilling of the first well has commenced; the loca-
tion of the second well has been agreed and that of the third exploratory
well should be agreed by November 1982. The first phase of the geochemical
study has been completed and the heavy oil study is expected to be completed
by the end of October 1982. Consumer prices for petroleum products have been
adjusted regularly; the ex-refinery prices have also recently been adjusted
to reflect some of the financial costs incurred in importing crude oil.
PETROGAL's financial situation is becoming very serious; Petrogal lost money
in 1982 and the Supply Fund arrears, which built up in 1982 due to the sub-
sidy policy of the Government for diesel and fuel oil, have not been paid.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
SEVENTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare          About two years
the project:
(b) Agency which prepared the project:            Electricidade de Portugal (EDP)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank,    November 1980
and date of first Bank mission to con-   and
sider the project:                          October 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission;    July 1982
(e) Date of negotiations:                         December 15-16, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                April, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank would review and approve annual construction and financing
plans (para. 47).
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Undertakings of the Government are;
(a)  The Government to take all measures necessary to enable EDP to
achieve the internal cash generation targets of 10 percent in 1983,
20 percent in 1984, 25 percent in 1985, and 30 percent in 1986
(para. 44);
(b) The Government to take all actions necessary to enable EDP, after
December 31, 1985, to manage its accounts receivable from munici-
palities so that at no time they exceed the equivalent of three
months' sales (para. 46); and



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) The Government to provide, or cause to be provided, adequate funds
for project execution or else cause EDP to scale down its invest-
ment program, in agreement with the Bank, to the level that can be
financed (para. 47).
2.   Undertakings of EDP are:
(a) EDP to achieve internal cash generation targets of 10 percent in
1983, 20 percent in 1984, 25 percent in 1985, and 30 percent in
1986 (para. 44);
(b) EDP not to incur any long-term debt, except as agreed by the Bank,
if its long-term debt, including the debt to be incurred, would
exceed 1.5 times its equity capital (para. 45);
(c) EDP to provide by end-November of each year, commencing Novem-
ber 30, 1983, its annual construction and financing plans for the
forthcoming year (para. 47);
(d) EDP to provide an interim report satisfactory to the Bank, on the
implementation of the annual financing plans by July 31 of each
year (para. 47);
(e) The interim report would include a listing of borrowings
undertaken, and to be undertaken, the Government's explicit
commitment for its annual contribution, and adjustments if needed
to the construction program (para. 47); and
(f) EDP to arrange by May 31, 1983, for an independent panel of
engineering experts, acceptable to the Bank, to review the design
of the dams at Alto Lindoso and Torrao and conduct periodic reviews
during their construction (para. 53).



IBRD 16179
v  3  /  -  g  eS . .............. SE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&PTEMRT   EEh?98
Alio [mdoso
t      L *-                                             OV,l,h-i         0)
VLANA DO CASTELO,                 I, V   il         o oode  Alto Roo
PORTUGAL                                                             Coocado
POWER VIl PROJECT
ELECTRICIDADE DE PORTUGAL                                                                      APTRoivaee
Main Transmission System                                                                                                                             Et3otto
and Power Stations
UNDER                                                              Rg
EXISTING  CONSTRUCTION  PROJECT              Po                                                          n
OR PROPSED
TRANSMISSION LINES:                                                        Cr                                                                                   -th
150kV                    ____
220kV                       -j                                                                                                 7
THERMAL:
Sloost Po-r Stpobn: AOilQVE)                                                                                                      , C.
Starts P-wer StItions Cool)                                                            M                 /
-teoonl Rondares        -     -                                       /              M
Notontl Captol1
Mo1o, Towos                 0
/COtIM R   oIt Alto
FIG          Ut EIR-,D'O                    t            =
/POMBAg                     ;bl                           r               i X
g LEIRIt//t f Bo~~~~~~~oc / +ROBANCOJ 
- R,. M-                                                                    E*               
A.j~ M-                                                                            Osns
0I (\  1        <OSetpo                            z
14 \          ,i'r  /                                                                PRANCE
                    50 0q0                                  /          I SO,Ao         OAlmodov:r            >                                             ANNDORRA
KILOMETERS                                                   (        
/r6                           ;            . iR2eal    n do              1
T.-                 Sooorono ~S   P   A   IN
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPet, o                                                        m          J  '0r 
-oen*s-oncaesmahplongr .........W.  k.2', -t    (                                                                                                             C 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -rrLmL Al.fi EtLA-A



I



V~~~~~~~~~~- r n n           
4~~~~~~~~~1 Os-  -0 0 Ck0  X T 08 Q.  X  ; - '' O 
0    0                                                                                           ',a                                                      0                   r;
0 ~~~ a  7    > iw  , {, i , g , i  m                                                                                                             m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ 6    r :    |
i:~~~ ~   ~~~ 8p 6(A     etXa.se  5>o 
1?1 gt6SVL CESl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



