Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No: AB3836 
 
Project Name 
Bangladesh:  Power Sector Governance Development Policy 
Credit 
Region 
South Asia 
Sector 
Energy 
Project ID 
P107797 
Borrower(s) 
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources 
Date PID Prepared 
April 7, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 28, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 24, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Government of Bangladesh has a well-articulated program of power sector reform.  The 
overall direction of reform was established in the 1990s, and incremental progress on reform has 
continued through a succession of elected governments.  The implementation and refinement of 
reform policies has continued under the current Caretaker Government, which has focused on two 
major items:  governance improvements, including in the power sector; and electoral process 
reform leading to an election that is scheduled for the end of 2008.  Power sector reform 
(including critical governance and institutional issues) has become an additional, top priority 
because of energy crisis gripping the country.  The crisis has manifested itself in shortfalls of 
electricity and natural gas supply; its root causes are governance failures but other problems, 
especially the steep rise in oil prices and the early 1990s decline of the taka against the dollar, 
have exacerbated the problems of the sector.  In this context, and dating back to the period of the 
last elected government, GOB has sought to reinvigorate its reform program.  The 
implementation strategy is to focus in parallel on a series of institutional reforms, including 
financial restructuring and corporatization of key service providers, development of the energy 
regulatory institution, transparent and competitive procurement, and reinvigorated efforts to 
attract private investment capital into the sector. 
 
The rationale for the proposed project is to support Government as it enhances governance and 
strengthens key institutions in the sector, while simultaneously improving the financial 
sustainability of the sector.  The focus on institutions is intended to build the credibility of the 
sector and lay the foundation on which to achieve full financial sustainability over the medium 
term.  The proposed operation will: a) support acceleration of the pace with which critical reform 
actions are taken, so that opportunities for impact are not missed; b) support refinements in the 
specific policy content of reform actions, so that development outcomes are enhanced; and 3) 
support Government in the on-going implementation challenges that arise in the wake of specific 
reform actions.  The proposed operation will support GOB objectives in sector financial 
restructuring, regulatory effectiveness, leveraging private investment for power generation, 
corporatization and commercialization of state-owned utilities, and rural electrification strategy.  
These choices collectively represent key areas for reform implementation in Bangladesh and are 
Page  2
well integrated with the Ba
nk’s overall engagement in the sector, which includes investments in 
peaking power generation to help address the physical shortfall of energy in the country’s power 
system. 
 
2. Proposed 
Objective 
 
Support tangible and sustainable reforms in the Bangladesh power sector that enhance 
governance, accountability, and service provision, while contributing to the process of building 
long-term financial sustainability. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed Power Sector Governance Development Policy Credit (Power DPC) is designed as 
a
single tranche credit to support an on-going longer term power sector reform program.  It is 
designed to support key components of the sector reform agenda, with a particular focus on 
governance reforms aimed at increasing transparency and accountability in the sector.  Success in 
these areas – encompassing financial restructuring steps, private power generation processes, 
regulatory reform, distribution corporatization and commercialization, and rural electrification 
policy – will be critical in enhancing the credibility and legitimacy of the broader reform agenda, 
and help foster an environment for the full financial recovery of the sector.  Taking into account 
that elections are planned for the end of 2008, continued World Bank support to the reform 
program will depend upon the new Government’s interest and commitment to the existing (or 
modified) reform program.  
 
The operation is designed to support GOB’s reform program and enhance the development 
outcomes associated with specific reform interventions.  Reform actions to be prospectively 
included in the Power DPC are related to:  1) implementation of steps towards financial recovery 
and restructuring in the gas and power sectors; 2) enhancement of power generation procurement 
processes with a focus on transparency and accountability (recognizing this is the single highest 
cost item in the supply chain); 3) improving corporate governance at the distribution level (with 
distribution effectiveness and efficiency being critical for economic growth and power cost 
reduction); 5) making progress in  operational and commercial efficiency in key customer 
segments; 6) strengthening governance in the rural electrification sector (critical for the access 
agenda); and 7) developing an energy pricing communications strategy. 
 
4. 
Environmental and social development aspects 
 
No adverse environmental and social impact is likely; GOB’s policy is oriented to 
environmentally sound and economically efficient development of the sector, and sharpening the 
development outcomes of the reform program will contribute to improvements in environmental 
and social impact management.  The sector relies on natural gas and hydro for over 95% of its 
capacity and energy, and there is an increasing amount of activity in renewable energy in rural 
areas.  Increased financial discipline, and increases in efficiency, both of which can be expected 
from successful implementation of reform, will allow for more optimal use of scarce gas 
resources, and could help GOB push off the point where a heavier reliance on coal will come.  
The Bank is engaged with GOB across a wide range of issues related to enhancing management 
of environmental and social impact in the sector, and is additionally engaging with GOB on 
climate change issues related both to adaptation and mitigation. 
 
Page  3
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
120 
 Total 
120 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact  
Alan Townsend 
Title 
 
Sr. Energy Specialist 
Tel. 
 
1 (202) 473-8654 
Fax 
 
1 (202) 522-2427 
E-mail  
atownsend1@worldbank.org
 
