Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3885 
Operation Name 
Bangladesh Power Sector Development Policy Credit 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Power (100%) 
Project ID 
P107797 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
(i) Ministry of Finance; and (ii) Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral 
Resources 
Date PID Prepared 
May 8, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 5, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
June 24, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Bangladesh faces challenging economic circumstances, and significant recent achievements in poverty 
reduction are being threatened by multiple shocks.  Natural disasters have coincided with unprecedented 
price hikes in essential commodities, especially food and oil.  Inflation remains the most important issue 
for the country, at just over 10% in February, though that is down from previous months. In particular, 
rising food inflation, which disproportionately hurts the poor, has been the single most important concern 
for policymakers.  Growth for the year is projected to be down as well, though the possibility of a bumper 
Boro
 (rice) crop means that growth might recover to 6% this year, down only 0.4% from last year.  
Meanwhile, government spending has had to be shifted from development expenditures to social 
protection, in the form of relief, rehabilitation, and food, energy, and fertilizer subsidies.  It is essential, in 
this tough situation, that GOB take steps now to preserve future growth prospects; power sector reform, 
covering sector governance and finances, is a key element of an overall strategy to facilitate economic 
growth. 
Poor quality power supply is a central economic growth concern, as the most recent Investment Climate 
Assessment (ICA) vividly details
—firms surveyed report persistent supply issues, significant losses of 
production and sales, and great frustration with the corruption associated with the sector.  Shortfalls in 
electricity could be costing the country two percentage points of growth per year.  With the increase in 
food and commodity prices, it is increasingly clear that Bangladesh can no longer afford to have its 
growth curtailed in this fashion, if it is to continue its impressive record in poverty reduction.  But turning 
the sector around will not be easy.  Investment has lagged for years; while recent power and gas sector 
master planning work identified a need for investment of greater than 2% of GDP, or about $1.5-billion 
per year, actual investment the last few years has been only about one-third of that level.  Doubts have 
arisen over the sustainability of gas supplies, which could complicate the development of the next 
generation of power projects.  Meanwhile, the steep increases in oil prices have contributed to the sector’s 
financial woes, as the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) has an operationally small, but 
financially significant, reliance on oil for some of its needs. 
Power is not a concern limited to business people but of broader political economy significance.  The 
access to, and affordability of, electricity supplies are key markers of economic and social advancement 
in Bangladesh; one of the signal achievements of this decade has been a doubling in access rates, to over 
40%.  Most of these new connections are in rural Bangladesh, where power in villages and households is 
transformative in its impact on education, productive activities, and communications.  But success in 
electrification was not matched by success in attracting generation investment, and the country finds itself 
Page  2
2
with a severe shortage of power, and as a result, severe power cuts
—and millions of frustrated electricity 
customers.  Bangladeshis have been hit by other shocks, too.  Food and non-oil commodity price 
increases have fueled inflation; and the situation has made adjustment of administered energy prices 
(including power) more difficult.  The political economy reality is that Government needs to treat power 
price adjustments with great sensitivity, and in a coordinated fashion with adjustments to prices of food, 
petroleum products, natural gas, and fertilizers.  Despite the constraints, GOB is planning such 
adjustments, and the first of them—a doubling of the compressed natural gas (CNG) price—took effect in 
late April 2008.  CNG is a relatively minor part of the overall gas market but even so the price increase 
will generate an additional Tk 3.3-billion in revenue. 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The operation will strengthen key institutions in Bangladesh’s power sector, while enhancing the stability 
of sector finances.  The operation does this by supporting a subset of the overall power sector reform 
program in these key areas:  1) procurement of privately financed power generation; 2) institutional 
strengthening of the Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission; 3) corporatization of the South Zone 
Power Distribution Company; 4) commercial reforms in serving large customers in the South Zone; 5) 
strengthening the Rural Electrification Board, including through development of a new strategy; and 6) 
implementation of a budget support mechanism, and other financial restructuring, to stabilize the finances 
of the Bangladesh Power Development Board.  The medium-term impact will be to contribute to a more 
robust investment climate, leading to economic growth and poverty reduction.  The pillars of the 
operation—strengthening institutions of accountability, and enhancing financial sustainability—are 
mutually reinforcing.  Governance of the sector will be enhanced by strengthening the regulatory 
institution; by making service providers more accountable to customers and shareholders, through 
corporatization and corporate governance reforms; and by developing the institutional capabilities for 
management of competitive and transparent generation procurement.  The policy actions are designed to 
boost accountability while leveraging public and private investment, and lay the foundation for follow-on 
actions to achieve full financial health. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for Bank involvement is threefold.  First, Bank involvement contributes directly to the pace 
of reform, with key decisions facilitated by Bank support. Second, the specific policy content of 
individual actions can be enhanced with Bank involvement, because of links to on-going Bank technical 
assistance and knowledge sharing activities. Third, implementation that follows from the set of policy 
actions is in all cases supported by a suite of on-going Bank projects; this will help to ensure better 
outcomes from the specific actions supported by the proposed Power DPC.  Beyond this single tranche 
operation, the reform program may be supported by a range of World Bank instruments (policy based or 
investment, advisory services, TA and AAA). The specific instrument will depend on the pace of reforms, 
the potential for a PRSC, and the interest and commitment of the new Government. 
4. Financing 
 
Source: 
     ($ 
mil) 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
120
Total: 120 
Page  3
3
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
A
single tranche Credit of about SDR 73.7-million (US$120 million equivalent) would be made available 
upon credit effectiveness, anticipated for June 2008.  The closing date of the Credit is March 31, 2009. 
The administration of this credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of 
Power, Energy and Mineral Resources, People's Republic of Bangladesh.   
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
 
Benefits
—weak governance has long been recognized as a serious development issue in Bangladesh, and 
that issue has particularly affected the evolution of the power sector.  The main benefit of the operation is 
strengthened sector governance, and incremental improvements in sector financial stability, which 
together contribute to lay the foundation for further moves to full financial health in the medium term.  
Other tangible benefits include the demonstration of more efficient (and less corrupt) procurement 
processes; lower technical and commercial losses; and better service delivery.  Strengthened governance 
will in part be underpinned by better and more integrated implementation of the GOB reform program, 
which is seen as a direct benefit of the enhanced engagement that the Bank will have if the proposed 
Power DPC operation goes forward. 
Governance improvements stem from enhanced transparency and fairness affecting key aspects of service 
delivery.  In the South Zone large customer metering component, all large customers will be moved to an 
automated metering system and managed by a large customer unit.  This business in South Zone accounts 
for 50% of revenues, and commercial losses (due to theft or faulty meters) will drop to zero, forever.  The 
benefit to customers will be a fair and predictable service free of the corruption that pervades the business 
now.  In making fundamental changes in regulatory approaches, the mechanism by which prices and other 
items are adjusted will be more transparent, because of requirements for public comment periods and 
hearings, and because key documents like tariff adjustment proposals will be public—and the basis for 
decision-making will be firmly rooted in law.  Now that the regulator is firmly up and running, because of 
reforms associated with this operation, GOB is now preparing to instruct its companies to file tariff 
proposals.  For the single biggest ticket item in the sector, power generation, the strengthening of GOB 
procurement capabilities in the Bibiyana IPP process will make a major impact on transparency and cost 
efficiency, if those approaches are replicated in future procurements. 
Risks—there is no question that there are substantial risks going forward.  The operation would take place 
in the context of a high risk sector in a high risk country; on balance, however, given the CTG 
commitment to power sector reform, it may be more risky to not do the operation, given the danger of 
major implementation delays in the GOB reform program in the absence of the external support afforded 
by the proposed operation.  There will also be, inevitably, a delay in policy decisions as the election nears, 
and that will continue for some time until a new government has its team in place.  But while policy 
decisions will not be made during that period, implementation of policy decisions already made is highly 
likely to continue, and without necessarily any delay.  This is because so much of the implementation 
responsibility is at the level of independent or corporatized elements of the power sector.  The election-
related paralysis on the policy institutions is a major risk for only one of the policy areas—that related to 
the IPP program.  As major investments, and given the nature of the GOB security package to be offered 
to investors in support of the deal, Bibiyana and other major IPPs will require final approvals from top 
levels of government.  The Bibiyana timeline does recognize this, which is another reason why it is 
critical to support GOB efforts—so that risks of slippage on critical IPP projects are lessened. 
Risks are substantially implementation-related – namely that GOB fails to implement reforms in a timely 
manner, or in the intended spirit. There are also factors outside the control of the authorities that need to 
Page  4
4
be considered 
–
namely, external shocks that force changes in the timelines or content of reform.  It 
should be noted that, despite major floods, a devastating cyclone, and unprecedented, coincident food and 
energy price inflation, GOB has continued to press ahead with the power sector reform agenda, though 
timing on some items, particularly pricing adjustments, has been affected. 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
No negative impacts on poor households are expected from the set of policy actions supported by the 
proposed credit.  The Power DPC operation seeks to strengthen certain core institutions of accountability 
in the power sector.  To the extent that the Power DPC contributes to sustained growth, and helps to 
diminish the prevalence of corruption in the power sector, it will make a positive impact on poverty.  
Growth impacts, however, may not materialize immediately; nor will it be possible, in the short-term, for 
Bangladesh to greatly accelerate its electrification program, other than for solar home systems, because of 
inadequate power generation capacity. 
The specific reform measures are being undertaken in a context in which most poor households are not 
connected to the electricity network.  Only 15% of the poorest quintile, and 28% of the second poorest, 
report using electricity for their lighting needs; and only 2 percent of the household expenditure of these 
bottom two quintiles is on petroleum products, gas, and electricity.  In at least some of these households, 
the source of supply is solar home systems, the costs of which are unaffected by network tariff 
adjustments (there are about 180,000 solar home systems installed in Bangladesh, and the Bank and other 
donors are assisting GOB with an accelerated roll-out of this technology).  Grid-connected, poor 
households consume small amounts of power and would be within the lifeline block—i.e. they consume 
less than 100 kWh per month.  But all household consumers receive the lifeline benefit in Bangladesh, 
and most grid-connected consumers are not poor.  This means that electricity subsidies in Bangladesh are 
regressive, with over 80% of the total estimated subsidy accruing to the non-poor.  It will be important, 
going forward, that better targeting of subsidies becomes an element of GOB’s financial sustainability 
approach in the sector, though initial steps are likely to be only modest in nature because of the multiple 
shocks being endured by the Bangladeshi consumer at this time. 
Positive impacts will arise stemming from the specific policy actions of the credit.  Stabilizing sector 
finances helps with service continuity and lays the foundation for deeper financial restructuring.  Non-
price aspects of financial restructuring are designed to reduce, as much as possible, the requirement for 
tariff increases, and to encourage efficient operations.  Successful IPP investments will add capacity to 
the grid, increasing the availability of energy in the network, and laying the foundation for increased 
electrification.  The two actions related to the South Zone company are both designed to promote that 
company’s ability to provide excellent service to its customers in the most efficient, and therefore least 
cost, manner possible.  Initially this will benefit mainly existing customers, including those living in 
slums—formalization of existing slum connections will be an important objective of the new company.  
Assuming greater generation availability in the coming years, the company will also be able to reach new 
customers.  REB revitalization will be directly relevant to Bangladesh’s ability to re-start its 
electrification drive.  Financial stabilization of REB will lay the foundation not only for renewed 
investment in new and rehabilitated rural lines, but also make REB a viable offtaker of new generation in 
its own right.  This is already happening—REB’s strong, historic payment record means that it has been 
able to attract small privately financed plants (some financed by the Bank) to connect to the REB system 
directly.  More such deals can be anticipated in future, provided that REB charts a strong path to financial 
sustainability. 
BERC should also make a contribution to social protection; its mandate is both to defend the rights and 
interests of consumers, and to factor GOB subsidy policy into the administration of pricing.  While there 
remains significant work to be done on subsidy policy generally and specifically on BERC’s 
Page  5
5
administrative role, the faster that the regulatory agency can develop its capacity in this area, the faster 
that at least some de-politicization of pricing can be anticipated.  This should result in outcomes that are 
fair for consumers
—both those that merit targeted social protection, and those that do not.  The Bank is 
supporting this agenda through technical assistance, directly to BERC on institutional strengthening, and 
to the power sector in general, through work focused on managing the social impact of restructuring, 
including the labor relations aspects. 
A
Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) was completed for Bangladesh in 2007; because most of the 
power produced in Bangladesh comes from gas-fired capacity, the power sector was not identified as a 
significant contributor to environmental degradation in Bangladesh.  The CEA did, however, identify 
capacity weaknesses at the Ministry of Environment and Forests, and the Bank has moved to help address 
these deficiencies through a closer operational engagement.  The policy actions supported by the Power 
DPC will have limited to no negative impacts on the environment, natural resources, or forests.  However, 
the operation will contribute to better environmental and social impact management, over time, by 
promoting enhanced transparency and accountability in the sector, and by helping to introduce best 
practice in environmental management of generation plants.   
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Alan F. Townsend 
Title: Senior Energy Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-8654 
Fax: (202) 522-2427 
Email: atownsend1@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
