                                                    Document of
                                                  The World Bank


                                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                      Report No. 43669-BD




                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                             PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                                       FOR A

                     PROPOSED POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT

                                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 73.7 MILLION

                                       (US$120 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                         TO

                                THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH




                                                    May 14, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
South Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

         Bangladesh - GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                            July 1 ­June 30

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective as of April 30, 2008)

                            Currency Unit
                US$1.00 = 68.67 Bangladeshi Takas

                   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                            Metric System

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA     Advisory and Analytical Activities
ACC     Anti-Corruption Commission
ADB     Asian Development Bank
ADP     Annual Development Program
AMR     Automated Meter Reading
APSCL   Ashuganj Power Station Company Limited
ATC     Agreement on Textiles and Clothing
BB      Bangladesh Bank
BERC    Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission
BPDB    Bangladesh Power Development Board
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFL     Compact Fluorescent Lamp
CTG     Caretaker Government
DESA    Dhaka Electric Supply Authority
DESCO   Dhaka Electricity Supply Company
DFID    Department for International Development (UK)
DPC     Development Policy Credit
DPDC    Dhaka Power Distribution Company
DSA     Development Service Agreement
DSC     Development Support Credit
EGCB    Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh
FRP     Financial Restructuring Plan
FRRP    Financial Recovery and Restructuring Plan
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GFS     Government Finance Statistics
GNP     Gross National Product
GWh     Gigawatt hour
HIPC    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICA     Investment Climate Assessment
IDA     International Development Association
IEG     Independent Evaluation Group
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IFRS    International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IPP     Independent Power Producer
ISO     Independent System Operator
JBIC    Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JSAN    Joint Staff Assessment Note



                                    ii

kWh     Kilowatt hour
LCG     Local Consultative Group
LDP     Letter of Development Policy
LGED    Local Government Engineering Department
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MDTF    Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOH     Ministry of Health
MPEMR   Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources
MTBF    Medium Term Budgetary Framework
MTEF    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
MW      Megawatt
NEP     National Energy Policy
NRECA   National Rural Electric Cooperative Association
NWPGC   North West Power Generation Company
NWZPDC  North West Zone Power Distribution Company
OPCS    Operations Policy and Country Services
PBS     Palli Bidyut Samities or Rural Electric Cooperatives
PC      Power Cell
PEFA    Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PFMIP   Public Financial Management Improvement Program
PGCB    Power Grid Company of Bangladesh
PHRD    Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Trust Fund
PPA     Public Procurement Act 2006
PPRP    Public Procurement Reform Project
PRG     Partial Risk Guarantee
PRS     Poverty Reduction Strategy
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSDTA   Power Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
PTA     Performance Target Achievement
REB     Rural Electrification Board
RERED   Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Development Project
ROSC    Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
RPCL    Rural Power Company Ltd.
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SEDA    Sustainable Energy Development Agency
SEU     Sustainable Energy Unit
SOE     State-owned Enterprises
SPPP    Siddhirganj Peaking Power Project
SZPDP   South Zone Power Distribution Project
TA      Technical Assistance
TOE     Table of Equipment
TSC     Transitional Support Credit
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
WZPDC   West Zone Power Distribution Company



              Vice President:           Praful Patel
              Country Director:         Xian Zhu
              Sector Manager:           Salman Zaheer
              Task Team Leader:         Alan Townsend



                                    iii


                                                         BANGLADESH

                    POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT


                                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS


I.   INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................................................................1

II.  COUNTRY CONTEXT .........................................................................................................................5

   RECENT ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN BANGLADESH.................................5
   BANGLADESH'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY: AN UPDATE ...............................................8

III.    THE GOVERNMENT'S POWER SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM .........................................9

IV.     THE PROPOSED OPERATION....................................................................................................11

   OPERATION DESCRIPTION ...................................................................................................................11
   POLICY AREAS ........................................................................................................................................12

V.   BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM.........................................................19

   LINK TO CAS ............................................................................................................................................19
   COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS ..............................................................19
   RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS ..............................................................................19
   LESSONS LEARNED................................................................................................................................20
   ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS..........................................................................................................21

VI.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION.............................................................................................22

   POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT..........................................................................................................22
   ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ................................................................................................................23
   IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION .................................................................25
   ADMINISTRATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING.....................................27
   BENEFITS, RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION.........................................................................................29

   ANNEXES

   ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY .........................................................31
   ANNEX 2: POWER SECTOR POLICY MATRIX.............................................................35
   ANNEX 3: BANGLADESH'S POWER SECTOR REFORM ROAD MAP................................36
   ANNEX 5: INVESTMENT CLIMATE AND THE POWER SECTOR.....................................56
   ANNEX 5: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE ........................................................................59




This Credit was prepared by an IDA team consisting of Alan Townsend (TTL), Raihan Elahi, M. Iqbal,
Sudeshna Banerjee, Fabio Pittaluga, Sameer Akbar, Zafrul Islam, Suraiya Zannath, Sandeep Mahajan, Dan
Biller, Tatiana Nenova, Shaukat Javed, Boonsri Kim, and Md. Abul Fayez Khan.




                                                                       iv


                    CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY CREDIT



Borrower           People's Republic of Bangladesh

Implementing       (i) Ministry of Finance; and (ii) Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral
Agencies           Resources
Amount             SDR 73.7-million (US$120 million equivalent)

Terms              Standard IDA terms; 40-year maturity including a 10-year grace period

Tranching          A single tranche Credit of about SDR 73.7 million (US$120 million
                   equivalent) would be made available upon credit effectiveness.
Development        This single tranche development policy credit supports a subset of the
Objectives and     Government's program of power sector reform. The policy actions
Description        supported by the Credit cover the areas of: (i) financial stability and
                   restructuring, (ii) private investment in generation (iii), regulatory
                   reform and institutional strengthening, (iv) corporate governance of
                   state-owned enterprises in the sector, and (v) transparent and
                   accountable commercialization of energy services, and (vi) rural
                   electrification strategy and institutional development. The development
                   objective is the enhancement of governance and accountability, and of
                   financial stability, in the sector leading to better and more sustainable
                   service provision.
Benefits           · Enhanced quality, transparency and efficiency of power generation
                      contracting processes leading to increased private investment on
                      competitive terms
                   · Enhanced governance of corporatized service providers, including
                      through improved metering, billing and collection systems
                   · Accelerated development of regulatory capacity by strengthening the
                      operations of the Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission
                   · Reduction of commercial losses
Risks              · Change in Government leading to change in policy
                   · Macro-fiscal deterioration that complicates energy pricing
                      adjustments
                   · Inadequate investor interest to meet Bangladesh's power sector
                      needs on affordable terms
                   · Labor strife that blocks governance reform, especially in the context
                      of the corporatization process
                   · Service delivery problems, linked to both inadequate generation and
                      natural gas shortages, that damage the credibility and legitimacy of
                      the GOB reform program
Project ID Number  P107797




                                            v


                                        I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The proposed Power Sector Development Policy Credit (Power DPC) is a stand-alone, single
tranche operation designed to support the Government of Bangladesh's (GOB) power sector reform
program. A parallel multi-sectoral, single tranche budget support operation--the proposed Transition
Support Credit (TSC), which is focused on tackling critical and long-festering weaknesses in core
governance functions--is also being processed. The proposed Power DPC supports two key themes of the
GOB's reform program in the sector: (a) strengthening institutions of accountability; and (b) promoting
operational and financial sustainability. GOB is strongly committed to a program of actions that can lead to
access expansion, improvements in service quality, and sector financial health, but it recognizes that in
parallel, the quality and credibility of its institutions must be enhanced. It also reflects the reality that
achieving financial balance in the sector will take time. Support for GOB efforts in key policy areas--
corporate governance, regulatory reform, generation procurement reform, financial restructuring,
commercialization, and rural electrification policy--will be critical in advancing the broader reform agenda,
and help foster an environment for on-going governance reforms.

2.       The current, Caretaker Government (CTG) came to power in January 2007 in challenging economic
and political circumstances that included growing difficulties with meeting power demand. The previous
administrations officially endorsed sound sector policies, but actions were often contradictory to these
policies. No new, reliable generation was added in the previous five years, mainly because of corruption.
During the same period, however, strong economic growth and rural access expansion contributed to
pronounced electricity demand growth. The situation was exacerbated by high losses--again, partly due to
governance issues--in distribution services. For most of its tenure, the previous government did little to
effect governance improvements, and little to implement a more rational pricing regime. The combined
effect was that the CTG inherited a sector that is unable to meet the demand for power, is financially weak,
and is hobbled by the legacy of poor governance.

3.       Upon taking office, the CTG mounted an anti-corruption drive in the power sector, which has
boosted sector revenues; implemented a tariff increase, in March 2007, that was the country's first power
price increase in four years; cancelled a number of power generation deals that were tainted by a lack of
transparency in the award process; ended the practice of having multiple state agencies pursue new power
generation deals in parallel, and non-transparently; reinvigorated the processes for attracting private
investment in generation, led by the Power Cell within the Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral
Resources (MPEMR); signed several deals, under transparent award processes, for emergency power
services; accelerated the institutional development of the regulatory agency; advanced the restructuring and
full corporatization of the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB); initiated implementation of a
serious financial restructuring plan; and taken decisive steps to de-politicize the Rural Electrification Board.
The World Bank has been working closely with the CTG on all aspects of its program, and the proposed
operation is intended to recognize achievements to date and the need to strengthen the platform for further,
high-impact reform.

4.       Bangladesh faces challenging economic circumstances, and significant recent achievements in
poverty reduction are being threatened by multiple shocks.            Natural disasters have coincided with
unprecedented price hikes in essential commodities, especially food and oil. Inflation remains the most
important issue for the country, at just over 10% in March, though that is down from previous months. In
particular, rising food inflation, which disproportionately hurts the poor, has been the single most important
concern for policymakers. Growth for the year is projected to be down as well, though the possibility of a
bumper Boro (rice) crop means that growth might hit 5.7% this year, down from 6.4% from last year.
Meanwhile, government spending has had to be shifted from development expenditures to social protection,
in the form of relief, rehabilitation, and food, energy, and fertilizer subsidies. It is essential, in this tough




                                                       1

situation, that GOB take steps now to preserve future growth prospects; power sector reform, covering sector
governance and finances, is a key element of an overall strategy to facilitate economic growth.

5.       Poor quality power supply is a central economic growth concern, as the most recent Investment
Climate Assessment (ICA) vividly details--firms surveyed report persistent supply issues, significant losses
of production and sales, and great frustration with the corruption associated with the sector.1 Shortfalls in
electricity could be costing the country two percentage points of growth per year. With the increase in food
and commodity prices, it is increasingly clear that Bangladesh can no longer afford to have its growth
curtailed in this fashion, if it is to continue its impressive record in poverty reduction. But turning the sector
around will not be easy. Investment has lagged for years; while recent power and gas sector master planning
work identified a need for investment of greater than 2% of GDP, or about $1.5-billion per year, actual
investment the last few years has been only about one-third of that level. Concerns have arisen over the
sustainability of gas supplies, which could complicate the development of the next generation of power
projects. Meanwhile, the steep increases in oil prices have contributed to the sector's financial woes, as the
Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) has an operationally small, but financially significant,
reliance on oil for some of its power plants.

6.       Power is not a concern limited to business people but of broader political economy significance.
The access to, and affordability of, electricity supplies are key markers of economic and social advancement
in Bangladesh; one of the signal achievements of this decade has been a doubling in access rates, to over
40%. Most of these new connections are in rural Bangladesh, where power in villages and households is
transformative in its impact on education, productive activities, and communications. Over 200,000 solar
home systems have been introduced, complementing the additional grid connections. But, as mentioned
above, success in electrification was not matched by success in attracting generation investment, and the
country finds itself with a severe shortage of power, and as a result, severe power cuts--and millions of
frustrated electricity customers. Bangladeshis have been hit by other shocks, too. Food and non-oil
commodity price increases have fueled inflation; and the situation has made adjustment of administered
energy prices (including power) more difficult. The political economy reality is that Government needs to
treat power price adjustments with great sensitivity, and in a coordinated fashion with adjustments to prices
of food, petroleum products, natural gas, and fertilizers. Despite the constraints, GOB is planning such
adjustments, and the first of them--a doubling of the compressed natural gas (CNG) price--took effect in
late April 2008. CNG is a relatively minor part of the overall gas market but even so the price increase will
generate an additional Tk 3.3-billion in revenue.

7.       Macro-economic, fiscal, growth, and political economy factors thus establish a challenging context
for GOB to address critical power sector deficiencies. There is a foundation to build upon. The institutional
framework--laws, regulations, companies, agencies--are, broadly speaking, in place, and well designed
from a policy perspective. The system itself has grown from virtually nothing at independence in 1971, to
over 5,000 MW (nameplate) today; electricity access is 43%, representing over 10-million households and
over 60-million people. But consumption of power is among the lowest in the world, at about 150 kWh per
year per person; load shedding has been persistent over much of the history of the sector since the nation's
independence; and the sector has suffered from poor governance. Government has been mindful of the need
to address these and other problems, but institutional capacity and political economy constraints mean that
reform processes do not always function efficiently. In 1996, to address the needs of sector development,
Bangladesh crafted a sector reform strategy that is well-oriented, administratively feasible, and has the
support of key internal and external stakeholders.           The challenge has been in managing successful
implementation of this strategy, and this challenge depends upon the ability of GOB to strengthen key
institutions while in parallel taking steps to bolster sector finances--first by stabilizing them, and then by
taking additional steps toward full sustainability.


1A summary of the ICA findings is presented in Annex 4.


                                                          2

8.       The basic strategy for reform of the sector dates back to 1996; at that time, Bangladesh was suffering
from serious shortages in generation, and the new policy--accompanied as well by a specific policy on
private investment in generation--was prompted in part by the need for sector reform and the recognition
that the sector had a critical contribution to make to economic and social development. This strategy was
updated in 2000, with a Vision Statement and update to the policy, but in its main orientation--directionally,
towards greater competition, accountability, regulatory clarity, private involvement in new generation
projects, and corporatization and commercialization of public operating entities, and full electrification by
2020--has remained consistent. On several dimensions, Bangladesh has had some success in implementing
its vision. As noted above, access has increased to an estimated 43%. Privately operated generation has
increased from zero in 1996, to 1080 MW today; by 2002, when the 450 MW Meghnaghat independent
power producer (IPP) came on-line, load shedding was almost fully eliminated (but only for a brief time). In
2003, the law for creation of the Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission (BERC) was passed. The
process of unbundling, which had started earlier in the 1990s, continued with the formation of corporatized
entities in generation, transmission, and distribution. And while implementation was often difficult, in many
areas there was incremental progress that eventually translated into good operating results (with DESCO, a
major distributor in Dhaka, and PGCB, the transmission company, standing out for their steady performance;
both are now partially private, having been floated on the Dhaka Stock Exchange).

9.       Governance improvements lagged, however; GOB did not institutionalize the good practices that
had led to favorable IPP deals (Haripur and Meghnaghat), and one result was that no new IPPs came on-line
after 2002. After passing the BERC law, the agency itself was not created and operationalized in a timely
fashion. GOB crafted a pricing framework, which included automatic adjustment mechanisms for fuel and
foreign exchange costs, that was also not implemented. Worst of all, the full range of procurement
processes--whether geared to public investment or to attraction of private investment in generation--
became less transparent over time. Accountability suffered, and procurement effectiveness diminished.
Apparent collusion and corruption affected a wide range of projects; in some cases, actual investments did
not materialize, while in other cases, capacity was installed, but came late, at high cost, and with
questionable reliability.

10.      The most significant success of Government had been driving the electrification of millions of rural
households; the most significant failure, to add reliable generation capacity after 2002. Combined, this
produced steep increases in load shedding in the period 2004-2007, with the result that GOB was forced to
declare a moratorium on new connections in 2007. As load shedding worsened, especially from 2004, and
reform implementation difficulties mounted, GOB crafted an additional, significant update to its earlier
policy documents, in the form of a rolling, 3-year "Reform Road Map." This document, dating from 2006
and updated in April 2008, has the support of the donor community in Bangladesh, and provides an
integrated, time-bound and implementation-focused strategy for the sector.

11.      The CTG has taken concerted actions to get implementation of the power sector reform program
back on track, first by investigating many of the non-transparent decisions taken by the previous
Government, then by curtailing the parallel systems of decision-making which had sprung up, and restoring
a system of transparent decision-making in several key areas ranging from appointments of senior staff to
billing & collections, to investments. GOB has unwound previous, non-transparent awards that were not
going to produce actual investment; and in parallel, brought to market new transactions that have credible
justification and advisory support. REB governance is beginning to improve, its strategy to better address
development challenges is under review, and GOB has now, cautiously, lifted the embargo on new
connections, while it continues efforts to stabilize and increase power supply. This is being done through a
combination of better operating and maintenance approaches, and a limited number of small IPP deals, most
hooked directly into the REB networks. An anti-corruption drive has targeted the meter-reading function,
and this has led to an increase in revenues as non-technical (i.e. commercial) losses have been reduced. A
financial restructuring effort has been launched, and the first phase of implementation of a sector Financial



                                                        3

Recovery and Restructuring Plan (FRRP) is underway. BERC issued its first ever tariff order as of March 1,
2007, which increased bulk power rates by 10% and most retail rate categories by 5%. GOB has also
reviewed its corporatization model, and, supported by IDA and JBIC, is moving toward implementation of
this new approach in the registration of new companies for key distribution businesses in the eastern half of
the country (these companies will take over BPDB distribution businesses in the Central and South Zones,
accounting for 20% of the market in the country and the major centers of Mymensingh, Sylhet, and
Chittagong).

12.      This is the context for GOB's request for the Bank to assist it with power sector reform through the
proposed Power DPC operation.          The objective is to contribute to strengthening of key governance
institutions, and to the immediate operational and financial stability of the sector, so as to lay the foundation
for the transition to sector financial health. GOB and the Bank have been actively working on this agenda
since the CTG took office in January 2007; during this time GOB's focus on reform has sharpened, despite
challenging circumstances, and the need for accelerating the pace of reform has grown. Elections are
looming, and are scheduled to be held by year-end, but locking in the reforms supported by the proposed
credit can be done now, leaving sufficient time for implementation and follow-on activities. Such an
approach will insulate this subset of the reform program from the threat of potential reversal later.
Additionally, the orientation on governance resonates with the Bangladeshi public, and this has helped in
gaining public acceptance (for example, well publicized examples such as BERC operationalization and
South Zone corporatization have been positively highlighted in the local media). It is thus opportune to
move on this operation now, while there remains a sufficiently wide window of opportunity both for the
policy actions to be taken, but as importantly for them be moved into full implementation well in advance of
the prospective election. While there are no guarantees concerning the policy orientation of the next, elected
government, the historical record of policy continuity, combined with the magnitude of the crisis that has
enveloped the sector, means that the package of reforms supported in this operation will in all likelihood be
endorsed and built upon in the future, under any likely political scenario.

13.      The rationale for Bank involvement is threefold. First, Bank involvement contributes directly to the
pace of reform, with key decisions facilitated by Bank support. Second, the specific policy content of
individual actions can be enhanced with Bank involvement, because of links to on-going Bank technical
assistance and knowledge sharing activities. Third, implementation that follows from the set of policy
actions is in all cases supported by a suite of on-going Bank projects; this will help to ensure better outcomes
from the specific actions supported by the proposed Power DPC. Beyond this single tranche operation, the
reform program may be supported by a range of World Bank instruments (policy based or investment,
advisory services, TA and AAA). The specific instrument will depend on the pace of reforms, the potential
for a PRSC, and the interest and commitment of the new Government.

14.      The current Country Assistance Strategy focuses on improving the investment climate and
empowering the poor, with enhanced governance as a core underpinning. Power is identified as a key sector
for Bank support. A stand-alone power DPC was not specifically envisaged, but the changed country and
sector situation, and the commitment of the CTG to do something about it, merit Bank support. Proceeds
from this operation will help MOF continue support to the power sector, while creating space to design and
implement phased tariff adjustments. In the absence of these resources, the CTG would be forced to either
borrow from the central bank or borrow from a commercial bank at high, short-tern interest rates--neither of
which is desirable, given the inflationary pressures in the country.

15.      Specific interventions that are proposed as part of the Power DPC program are synergistic with these
the CAS objectives. Power shortages and corruption figure prominently among the concerns of businesses
and households in the country. Addressing energy shortages in Bangladesh cannot be done, however, unless
spearheaded by a policy program that enhances governance of key sector institutions while contributing to a
stabilization of sector finances. These steps are a prerequisite for sustainable improvements and extensions



                                                        4

of service, and for an improved investment climate. Ultimately, the poor will benefit both from an improved
investment climate, and better service delivery, but also from better social protection if GOB is able to better
target subsidies that today are captured by middle class and rich consumers.


                                   II. COUNTRY CONTEXT

RECENT ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN BANGLADESH

16.      Bangladesh is in the midst of political transition. Since January 2007, when a state of emergency
was declared, a Caretaker Government (CTG) has been administering the country, and has been primarily
focused on fighting corruption while preparing the country for an election that is meant to be held by the end
of 2008. Although progress on the electoral road map is on track, there are uncertainties about the
conditions under which elections are likely to be held. While the Election Commission and the CTG as well
as the Chief of Army Staff have repeatedly assured that election will be held by December this year, the
political parties remain apprehensive because the election date has not been announced and no clear
commitment has been made to lift or significantly relax the state of emergency well ahead of elections.
There is also disagreement between the EC and most political parties on the timing of long overdue local
government elections. The CTG has announced its intention to hold dialogue with the political parties.
Relaxation and lifting of the state of emergency, political party reforms, ratification of institutional reforms
enacted since January 11, 2007, and the exit strategy of the CTG are, among others, likely to be the salient
agenda items in this dialogue.

17.      Devastating floods struck Bangladesh in the months of July/August and again in September 2007.
Just as the country was beginning to recover from the floods, on November 15 large parts of its coastal area
were hit hard by a Category 4 cyclone, Sidr. Combined physical damage is estimated at US$2.7 billion
(floods US$1.1 billion and cyclone US$1.6 billion), equivalent to 3.5 percent of GDP. The government
program for relief and rehabilitation being implemented in FY08 is estimated to cost US$850 million. The
government has secured about US$400 million in funding from development partners. The direct budgetary
cost for FY08 is estimated at US$450 million. It is being financed by improved revenue collection; within-
budget substitution, and additional budget support of US$225 million (US$175 from IDA and US$50
million from the ADB). The remaining reconstruction and rehabilitation needs will be implemented over the
medium to longer term with additional foreign assistance.

18.      For the past several years Bangladesh has had an impressive overall record on macroeconomic
stability, marked by reasonable economic growth, fiscal and external sustainability, and cautious monetary
management.      However, the record is being increasingly tested under difficult external conditions.
Inflationary pressures have been on the rise throughout this decade, driven in large part by global food and
commodity price inflation, and exacerbated by periods of monetary policy laxity. More recently, insufficient
correction of the administered energy and fertilizer prices has resulted into large losses for the state-owned
enterprises (SOEs), further straining an under-resourced budget that has already been stretched thin by the
additional expenditures arising from the natural disasters. While power prices were increased by 10% (for
bulk supply) and 5% (for most retail customer categories) as of March 1, 2007, this increase was insufficient
to cover costs, and as a result operating losses in the sector are running at about $140-million per year (taka
9-billion), almost all concentrated in BPDB's bulk supply business (the business of buying from independent
generators, as well as producing from owned-generation, and selling the aggregated volumes of power to
distribution companies). This loss compares to an overall loss in the SOE sector of over $2-billion.

19.      Despite prolonged political turmoil, growth of gross domestic product (GDP) equaled 6.4 percent in
FY07, the fourth consecutive year of at least 6 percent growth (Table 1 below). GDP growth has been broad-
based. The manufacturing sector grew at an impressive 11.4 percent in FY07. Garment exports, which
account for about 75 percent of manufacturing exports, grew by 11.6 percent (in nominal dollar terms)



                                                        5

despite enhanced competition from other low-cost producers after the dismantling of the Agreement on
Textiles and Clothing (ATC) on January 1, 2005. Net export growth has slowed down in recent months,
however, and concerns about reserves led to an injection, under emergency procedures, of US$217-million
from the IMF. Construction grew by an estimated 7.1 percent, maintaining its 7-8 percent growth record
since FY94. Remittances through formal channels were recorded at nearly US$ 6 billion in FY07, which is
about 9 percent of GDP and half of gross merchandize exports, compared with just US$ 1.9 billion in FY01.

20.       GDP growth is projected to slow down in FY08, to 5.7%, largely on account of three factors: (i)
agricultural output has suffered, first from the twin floods in 2007 summer and then from the loss inflicted
by cyclone Sidr in November followed by outbreak of bird flu in December-January; (ii) a slowdown in
domestic private activity, as the CTG's aggressive anti-corruption drive led to a slowdown in private
investment in new construction and capital machinery as well as conspicuous consumption; and, (iii)
negative export growth in the first quarter of FY08, because of lower garment orders.

                                       Table 1: Summary Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                                   Actual                         Estimate         Projections
                                                 FY02       FY03     FY04     FY05     FY06         FY07         FY08        FY09
 Output and Prices                                                             annual percent change
   Real GDP Growth                                4.4        5.3      6.3       6.0      6.6         6.4          5.5         6.5
   CPI                                            2.8        4.4      5.8       6.5      7.2         7.2          10.2        8.0
 External Outlook
   Exports (f.o.b.) (billion $)                   5.9        6.5      7.5       8.6      10.4        12.1         13.1        15.2
     Annual % change                              -7.6       9.5      15.9     14.0      21.6        15.6         9.0         15.5
   Imports (c.i.f.) (billion $)                   7.7        8.7      9.8      11.9      13.3        15.5         18.7        21.8
     Annual % change                              -8.7      13.1      13.0     20.6      12.1        16.6         20.8        16.5
   Current account balance (% of GDP)             0.3        0.3      0.3      -0.9      0.9         1.4          -0.4        -0.5
   Gross official reserves (billion $)            1.6        2.5      2.7       2.9      3.5         5.1          5.5         6.4
     In months of GNFS imports                    2.1        2.9      2.8       2.5      2.7         3.3          3.0         3.0
 Public Finance                                                                  In percent of GDP
   Total Revenue                                  10.1      10.3      10.2     10.5      10.7        10.3         11.3        115
   Total Expenditures                             14.8      13.7      13.3     13.8      13.9        13.6         16.1        16.5
   Overall budget deficit (excl. grants)          4.7        3.4      3.1       3.3      3.2         3.2          3.1         3.7
   Budget support to SOEs                          ..         ..       ..       ..        ..          ..          1.7         1.3
   Budget deficit including support to             ..        ..        ..       ..        ..          ..          4.8         5.0
   SOEs*
   Domestic financing                             2.5        1.2      1.8       1.7      2.1         2.0          2.3         2.8
   Public debt                                    52.7      51.1      51.0     50.1      48.3        46.5         45.5        43.6
 Money and Credit                                                           End of year; percent change
   Net Domestic assets                            11.6      12.2      13.5     17.1      19.6        13.4         16.8        14.1
   Private sector                                 13.9      12.6      17.5     17.0      18.3        15.1         15.1        14.9
  Broad money (M2)                                13.1      15.6      13.8     16.7      19.3        17.5         15.9        16.2
 Source: IMF & GoB
 Notes: (i) GFNS= Goods and non factor services; (ii) *Starting from the revised FY08 budget, the definition of budget deficit has
 been broadened to include explicitly the financing of the operating losses of the four largest loss-making non-financial energy
 and fertilizer state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The FY08 revised budget covers 71 percent of these losses.,



21.       CPI inflation has been on a rising trend since the early 2000s, increasing steadily from an average of
1.5 percent in FY01 to 7.2 percent in FY07. The increase has continued in the first half of FY08, with year-
on-year inflation reaching 11.6 percent in December 2007, driven mainly by food inflation, which increased


                                                                  6

to 14.5 percent. As of March 2008, though, year-on-year inflation had come down significantly, to 10.1
percent overall, 12.9 percent for food, and 5.6 percent for non-food items. Rice, wheat, and edible oil have
been the dominant sources of food inflation in both rural and urban areas. While rising international
commodity prices and internal food supply shortages have been the main contributors to inflationary
pressures, domestic policy responses have been inadequate. Rising SOE losses due to underpricing of fuel,
fertilizer, and power also contributed, as these are covered by bank and direct budgetary financing. The
CTG's anti-hoarding efforts may have also played a role in short-term supply shortages. The damage to
crops and transport infrastructure caused by floods and cyclone further added to the short-term pressures.

22.      Monetary growth has declined significantly in recent months, as demand for credit has fallen and
authorities have adopted a more cautious policy approach. Reserve money growth came down from 38.2
percent in December 2006 to 11.3 percent in December 2007, resulting from a 13 percent decline in the net
domestic assets of Bangladesh Bank (BB) as its claims on the public sector declined, even as its net foreign
assets grew by almost 40 percent. Year-on-year broad money growth fell from 22.3 percent in December
2006 to 14.2 percent in October, 2007, before picking up a bit to 14.7 percent in December. Nominal
interest rates have remained stable since November 2006 although inflation has increased.


                           Growth Trends in GDP                                                Recent Trends inSectoral Growth (annual %
                                                                                                               change)
                                                                                     12
             7                                                                       10
             6                                                                            8
        ( %5)                                                                          )  6
             4                                                                          (%4
             3                                                                            2
             2                                                                            0
             1                                                                            -2
             0                                                                              FY92      FY95    FY98      FY01       FY04   FY07(P)
                  FY92- FY95 FY96-FY99 FY00-FY03 FY04-FY07
                  GDP Growth      GDP Growth Per Capita                                      Agriculture     Industry       Services




                                                                                              Recent Trends in Gross Foreign Exchange
                          External Debt ( % of GDP)                                              Reserves & Current Account Balance

             50
                                                                                           6                                               2
             40                                                                            5                                               1
             30                                                          )$SU              4                                               0
          (%)20                                                                            3                                               -1
                                                                                           2                                               -2  P)DGfo
             10                                                              onliilb(      1                                               -3        (%

              0                                                                            0                                               -4

               FY92      FY95      FY98      FY01    FY04     FY07(P)                       FY92     FY95   FY98     FY01      FY04 FY07(p)
                    External Debt (percent of GDP)                                            Gross Reserves - end of period (left scale)
                                                                                              Current Account Balance as % of GDP (right scale)


                        Recent Trends in Deficit Fiancing                                     Recent Trends in Overall Budget Deficit
                                     (% of GDP)                                                            (% of GDP)
                   6
                                                                                            7
                   5                                                                        6
                   4
               )                                                                            5
                   3
                (%                                                                   ) 4
                   2                                                                 (% 3
                   1                                                                        2

                   0                                                                        1
                                                                                            0
                    FY90    FY93    FY96    FY99   FY02   FY05
                                                                                             FY90    FY93  FY96     FY99    FY02    FY05
                    Net foreign financing      Net domestic financing                                    Overall budget deficit




                                                                     7

23.      The external position has remained strong, despite a marked slowdown in net export growth. In the
first half of FY08 merchandize exports grew by only 4.4 percent compared with the same period of the
previous year due to weakening of demand and more intense competition in US and European markets.
Import payments increased by 15 percent in the first half of FY08 reflecting higher international commodity
prices and food imports to cover shortages created by natural disasters. Notwithstanding the 20 percent
growth in remittances, the current account surplus narrowed to $287 million, compared with US$545 million
surplus in the first half of FY07.

24.      Fiscal prudence (in central government accounts) has largely been maintained since FY02. The
FY07 fiscal deficit stood at an estimated 3.1 percent of GDP, smaller than the budgeted 3.7 percent. It was
the fifth successive year in which the deficit was kept below 4 percent of GDP and domestic financing at or
below 2 percent of GDP. This has allowed total public debt to fall from 46.9 percent of GDP in FY06 to
45.0 percent in FY07: domestic debt fell from 18.2 percent of GDP to 16.8 percent and external debt from
28.7 percent to 28.2 percent. The FY08 budget projects the deficit to rise to 4.5 percent of GDP, with
domestic financing constituting 2.2 percent.

25.      The country's overall fiscal situation has come under heightened stress in FY08 because of
mounting losses of state-owned energy and fertilizer companies, and budgetary impact of the natural
disasters. The FY08 budget had a provision of Tk 6 billion (US$87 million) to compensate the BPDB for
underpricing of its products. Rising prices of oil and fertilizers, without commensurate domestic adjustment,
have increased the overall subsidy to SOEs to US$2.1 billion.2 Evidence shows that bulk of the subsidies
accrue to the better-off, crowd-out other development expenditures in the budget and add to inflationary
pressures arising from higher bank financing of the public sector deficit.

26.      Slower-than-normal utilization of the Annual Development Program (ADP) spending--with a
utilization rate of 25 percent of the programmed amount for the year by January 2008--has lifted some
pressure on the fiscal situation, although likely at the expense of longer term development impact. Another
alleviating factor has been revenue mobilization, which, thus far, has outpaced projections for the year.
Intense monitoring of activities of tax payers and officials by NBR and other relevant government agencies
has been an important enabler of the recent improvement in tax collection. Tax revenue growth for the first
seven months of FY08 was a record 24.6 percent, compared with only 9.5 percent in the same period of
FY07. Declaration of an income-tax amnesty in the early part of FY08 and the newly introduced universal
self assessment system, which increased individual taxpayer submissions threefold, have yielded a 41.6
percent increase in income tax collection. Non-tax revenue has performed even better, registering record
growth of 34 percent for July-December 07. Yet, the projected 11 and 8.3 percent of GDP in FY08
respectively, total revenue-to GDP and tax-GDP ratios remain among the lowest in the world.


BANGLADESH'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY: AN UPDATE

27.      Bangladesh's development vision has been detailed in its Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) adopted
in November 2005. The PRS was set to expire in June 2007, but was subsequently extended by the CTG up
to June 2008 with an updated Medium Term Macroeconomic Framework and policy matrix. The PRS
stresses the links between investment, growth, job creation, and poverty reduction, and identifies key areas
where reforms are needed, public investments are required, and public policies merit improvement. The
PRS vision appropriately builds on the policy triangle of growth, human development, and governance.
Reflecting on the theme of governance, the JSAN noted that a greater focus was needed on improving
governance in sectors, especially power. The lack of specificity on sectoral governance reforms, despite the
strong focus on overall governance, suggested the need to broaden ownership for governance reforms within


2The Government has also acquired Tk 75.4 billion of Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation's debt to the Nationalized
Commercial Banks in this year's budget.


                                                        8

the government. The authorities are planning to address these issues in the second PRS, now under
preparation. More specifically, on the governance front, the CTG has been implementing its anti-corruption
and institutional reform agenda. As noted earlier, the governance reform program is home grown and has
full ownership of the CTG.


  III. THE GOVERNMENT'S POWER SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
28.     This section summarizes GOB's broad vision for the sector. The details of implementation progress
may be found in Annex 2, in the Reform Road Map. This summary draws on official GOB documentation
related to their program. The basic strategy dates to 1994 and has been updated, in 2000, and re-confirmed
in 2006. The core objective of the program is full electrification by 2020, with reform, restructuring, and
private participation seen as contributing directly to competition, performance improvement, and growth.

29.     Reform Objective--GOB issued its Vision Statement/Policy Statement on Power Sector Reform on
February 2000 with the following broad objective:

    · Bring entire country under electricity service by the year 2020
    · Make the power sector financially viable and able to facilitate economic growth
    · Increase the sector's efficiency
    · Make the sector commercial
    · Improve the reliability and quality of electricity supply
    · Increase private sector participation to mobilize finance
    · Promote competition among various entities
    · Contribute to poverty alleviation by ensuring reasonable and affordable prices of electricity

30.     Reform Components--The principal components of the reform program have been envisaged as the
following:

    · Unbundling of power generation, transmission and distribution functions into separate services
    · Corporatization and commercialization of emerging power sector entities
    · Establishment of power market under regulatory regime
    · More private participation
    · Development of alternative/renewable energy resources

31.     Initiatives to Date--Power sector reforms started in late 70's with the creation of REB. Currently,
the reform process is guided by the following key documents and actions:

    · National Energy Policy (NEP) in 1996
    · Private Sector Power Generation Policy in 1996
    · Policy Guidelines for Small Power Plants in Private Sector in 1998
    · Vision Statement and Policy Statement on Power Sector Reforms in June 2000
    · Energy Regulatory Commission Act 2003
    · Creation of Power Grid Company of Bangladesh (PGCB) and Dhaka Electricity Supply Company
        (DESCO) in 1996
    · Reform Road Map (latest version as of April 2008)
    · Corporatization of Ashuganj Power Station in 2002
    · Creation of West Zone Power Distribution Company (WZPDC) in 2003
    · Establishment of Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh (EGCB)
    · Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission established in 2004
    · Approval to convert BPDB into a Holding Company in January 2004



                                                        9

                                    Figure 1: Generation Market Share Changes 1994-2007




                                                                                  IPPs
                                                                                  32%             BPDB
                                BPDB                                                               50%

                                   100%

                                                                 APSCL
                                                                     RPCL
                                                                      4%             APSL
                                                                                     14%




                                1994                                                      2007

Note--RPCL is Rural Power Company Limited; APCSL is Ashuganj Power Station Company Limited; both are corporatized, state-owned
generators. IPPs are independent, privately owned power producers; there are five major IPPs with 1,080 MW of capacity. Another 1,100 MW of
IPP capacity is under active development.


32.        Key Elements of Future Reform Program

     Generation

           · Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) be converted into a holding company under
                 Companies Act 1994
           · The existing generating stations of BPDB be converted into a number of corporatized entity
                 under BPDB holding company
           · Private Investment in generation capacity will be encouraged
           · Commercialization and possible, partial stock market flotation of state-owned generators, such
                 that these companies can self-finance new power plants to complement IPPs

     Transmission

           · PGCB will remain responsible for transmission business in the whole of Bangladesh.

     Distribution

           · Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) distribution segment converted into a number
                 of subsidiary companies under BPDB Holding Company
           · Corporatization of Central Zone and South Zone of BPDB distribution is under process
           · DESA converted into corporatized entity
           · Palli Bidyut Samities (PBSs, or rural electric cooperatives) will continue business in rural
                 distribution areas but will have an option to develop generation

     Industry and Market Structure

           · Power Sector will be fully restructured and commercialized
           · Fully competitive market will be established
           · Single Buyer Market Structure will be followed initially




                                                                     10

33.     The following table summarizes the key performance achievements of recent years. The figures of
note ­ the huge numbers of new consumers entering the system through FY07; and the stalled growth in
energy output as the lack of new capacity, combined with operating issues, constrained energy sales.

      Table 2: Trends in net generation, sales, losses, and customer numbers (2002-2007)

Year ending June 30                      2002           2003         2004        2005         2006    2007

Electricity sent out (GWh)              17,445         18,422       20,302      21,408        22,978  23,267

Growth in electricity sent out           7.3%           5.6%        10.2%        5.4%         7.3%    1.3%

Transmission loss                        3.8%           3.8%         3.5%        3.6%         3.5%    3.5%

Distribution loss                       24.5%          22.3%        21.3%       20.0%         19.2%   18.8%

Electricity sales (GWh)                 15,243         16,332       18,024      19,122        20,836  20,900

Growth in electricity sales              8.9%           7.1%        10.4%        6.1%         9.0%    0.3%

Average number of customers
(,000s)                                  7,000          7,700       8,405        9,076        9,800   10,500



                            IV. THE PROPOSED OPERATION

OPERATION DESCRIPTION

34.     The proposed Power Sector Development Policy Credit aims to strengthen key institutions in
Bangladesh's power sector while enhancing the stability of sector finances. The medium-term impact will
be to contribute to a more robust investment climate, leading to economic growth and poverty reduction.
The pillars of the operation--strengthening institutions of accountability, and enhancing financial
sustainability--are mutually reinforcing; the policy actions are designed to boost governance, leverage
public and private investment, and lay the foundation for future actions, over time, to achieve full financial
health. The policy actions all contribute to building governance in the sector, whether their primary effect is
to build or stabilize revenue (including by controlling commercial leakages), or by directly contributing to
stronger institutions that can better resist political interference and/or corrupt influences.

35.     The proposed program complements existing and planned IDA operations supporting investment
and technical assistance, and is well integrated with the broader sector support program identified in the
current CAS, which was done jointly with the other key sector donors, ADB, JBIC, and DFID. The design
of the operation and the pace of reform (as shown in the policy matrix, Annex 2) reflects the challenges of
reform design and implementation in Bangladesh, where there is a need for the sector to enhance its
credibility with the public--particularly in the areas of accountability and reliable services--while also
securing tariff adjustments, over time, to tackle financial weaknesses. While the Government has been
successful in improving sector performance over the last year, a legacy of operational failings, human
capacity limitations, non-transparent procurement (for example of power plants), erratic power supply and
high commercial losses have limited the scope for the Government to take a more aggressive reform
approach. Rather, reform will need to be designed to be implemented in a fashion that is incremental in
nature and feasible within the constraints of institutional capacity and political capital.



                                                          11

36.      Given the underlying logic of the Government's program, the rationale for IDA involvement is to a)
support the pace with which critical reform actions are taken; b) improve the policy content of these actions,
and 3) strengthen the mechanisms for close interaction between GOB and the Bank in the course of
implementation. The proposed operation will support GOB objectives in sector financial restructuring,
regulatory effectiveness, IPP development, corporatization and commercialization of state-owned utilities,
and rural electrification strategy. These choices are well integrated with the scope of the Bank's engagement
in the sector. This factor is quite critical because the historical record in Bangladesh is that reforms are
typically well-designed but prove difficult to implement fully. These specific reform activities are areas
where other Bank Group projects are providing analytic inputs, implementation assistance, and/or
institutional strengthening.

37.      As with any power sector restructuring program in a developing country, GOB's program is broad-
based and addresses all aspects of the sector. The foundation for GOB policy may be found in past strategy
documents that are well-grounded in best global practice, and have been updated most recently in the Power
Sector Reform Road Map (April 2008), which provides a 3-year, rolling program of reform activities, with
milestones at six-monthly intervals. The Road Map as a whole has been endorsed by the key donors active
in the Bangladeshi power sector, and is attached as annex 3 of this program document.


POLICY AREAS

38.      The policy actions have been built on two pillars. The first pillar is the approach of making
sustainable progress in building sector institutions in an environment where strong, near-term action on
sector pricing is unlikely. The second pillar is to undertake at least some financial stabilization moves so
that sector entities have at least some breathing space to do more than just survive from crisis to crisis. In
the following sections, the specific policy actions will be described under these two broad rubrics.

                        Pillar 1--Building Strong Institutions of Accountability

Policy Area 1A--Private sector participation in power generation

Prior Action 1A--Shortlisting for Bibiyana IPP completed

Monitoring Indicator-- Bibiyana IPP tendered and awarded, and progress toward financial close, by March
2009; other generation procurements conducted according to transparent processes

39.      Generation is the single costliest element of the power system, and efficient mechanisms for
planning, procuring, and implementing projects are essential. But since the 450 MW Meghnaghat plant
came on-line in March 2002, no new utility-scale IPPs have been commissioned. During this period, the
country went from being, roughly, in balance with peak requirements, to a steep deficit. Since 2002, it is
apparent that power generation procurement processes were subjected to interference that typically resulted
in financing for new capacity not materializing. A few public sector plants were completed ­ including the
250 MW Barapukuria coal-fired plant, and the 80 MW Tongi gas turbine, which have become infamous in
Bangladesh for their high cost and unreliability. As a consequence of this record, the Bank has highlighted
this issue for the past four years. One governance weakness that was identified was that generation
procurement processes had been going forward without assistance from external advisors.

40.      Power Cell, the Government agency responsible for analyzing and developing IPPs, which had been
sidelined by the previous Government, is now back in charge of IPP procurement. It has contracted IFC's
Advisory Services to focus on development of an IPP of about 450 MW in size at Bibiyana, adjacent to what
is one of top two producing gas fields in the country. Shortlisting for this plant has now been completed
satisfactorily, and it is expected that the bids could be submitted by mid-July 2008. It is expected that



                                                       12

lending and guarantee instruments from ADB and the Bank Group will be mobilized to support this
financing. ADB is also providing consultant support (not full transaction advisory services) to Power Cell in
support of an additional 450 MW IPP at Sirajganj, and this process has also progressed through shortlisting.
Continued Bank and ADB support of these critical projects will be important both for stabilizing power
supply in the medium term and for getting Bangladesh re-established as an investment destination for IPPs.

41.     Monitoring of the follow-up to this critical action will be done on two levels. The Bibiyana process
will be followed closely, and it is possible that, by March 2009, this project will have been awarded and will
be making progress towards financial close. There is one important caution to be added here, though--not
all aspects of achieving this outcome, on this schedule, are necessarily under GOB's control. The private
sector parties that have emerged as bidders have a say as well, and one of the risks that GOB faces is that
events--whether inside Bangladesh or outside--could impact investor interest in this process. This will be
taken into account at the point of evaluation of the operation. The other level on which this will be
monitored at the level of GOB's overall generation procurement processes. The objective is that GOB
mainstreams the good practices observed to date in the Bibiyana process and extend those to all other IPP
processes as well. Currently, the Sirajganj process is active and this process, and any others that come up,
will be monitored for its adherence to transparency and accountability standards.

Policy Area 1B--Regulatory institutional reform and strengthening

Prior Action 1B--Approval of service rules, organogram and table of equipment for the Bangladesh Energy
Regulatory Commission

Monitoring Indicator-- Progress on issuing licenses to 6 distribution companies, and approval of Bibiyana
and Siddhirganj PPAs, by March 2009


42.     BERC was established by law in 2003 but has not been fully operationalized. However, recent
progress is encouraging. A full complement of commissioners, including a new chairman, is in place.
BERC's organizational chart; its Table of Equipment (TOE) and its Service Rules have been approved.
Now that these administrative steps have been taken, BERC is in a position to operate in line with the vision
of the 2003 enabling law. Government will need to empower BERC in an active way, to provide not just the
legal mandate but also the moral authority to do its job. There is work that BERC could and should be doing
now--review of power purchase contracts related to the Siddhirganj peaking plant; review of contractual
arrangements for Bibiyana IPP; and the review of the tariff adjustment proposal that PGCB filed in 2005.
Over the course of the next year, BERC should also set about the task of ensuring that the six non-REB
distribution companies all have operating licenses that, critically, will include performance indicators.

43.     Technical assistance, from USAID and IDA, is available and can be used to help BERC with its
work. The scope of this TA covers a range of institutional strengthening and training activities, specific
studies on matters of immediate interest, and provision of resident advisory support from experienced
consultants (generally, individuals with professional experience working within a regulatory agency). A
detailed capacity building plan, to be financed under the existing IDA-financed TA project, is now under
development. The USAID-financed support, which has been in place for the previous four years, has been
renewed and has entered a new phase.




                                                      13

Policy Area 1C--Corporate governance of state-owned enterprises in the power sector

Prior Action 1C--Registration of South Zone Power Distribution Company as a public limited company

Monitoring Indicator--Appointment of top management team and transition from interim Board of Directors
by December 2008


44.      With ADB financing, the question of transformation of BPDB into a central holding company has
been studied, but no final conclusions have been reached. Further dialogue among GOB and its donor
partners is expected. But for many years, subsidiary entities under BPDB have been corporatized, including
the Ashuganj power plant, EGCB, PGCB, and the West Zone and Northwest Zone distribution entities.
Experience has shown that, while corporatization does not immediately solve all problems, over time there
have been some positive results for most entities, and indeed some have thrived and, in PGCB's case, even
successfully managed to float shares on the Dhaka Stock Exchange. DESCO, a distribution company
serving parts of Dhaka, has also been partially privatized. More recently, GOB has corporatized Northwest
Power Generation Company Limited, and is moving towards corporatizing the remaining two distribution
units still within the current BPDB structure ­ namely, the South Zone and the Central Zone divisions.

45.      One of the lessons learned from earlier distribution corporatizations is that legal incorporation alone
makes little difference, and should ideally be complemented by broad change management initiatives, and
investment in corporate and network infrastructure. This approach is being taken with the South Zone and
Central Zone distribution entities. Over the course of the last year, South Zone's business challenges have
been studied, and a project is under preparation for possible IDA financing. Draft Articles of Association
and Memorandum of Association have been prepared, and a joint team, comprised of officials from South
Zone, BPDB headquarters, and Power Cell, has reached agreement on these critical documents. Teams from
the Bank (South Zone) and JBIC (Central Zone) have intensively reviewed this documentation. Registration
of South Zone as a public limited company has now been done; the next steps would be appointment of a top
management team and full transfer of assets and operating responsibility to the new company.

46.      Government has undertaken reforms to company boards and foundational documents (articles and
memorandum of association). Fiduciary transparency is enhanced by new provisions specifically aimed at
addressing corruption issues that require annual Board reports on three key aspects: 1) procurement
performance of the company; 2) human resource development, including monitoring of management
commitments on hiring, firing, promotions, training and other aspects; and 3) corporate governance, i.e. the
Board's performance of its duties. Board committees, each headed by a unique independent director, will be
responsible for preparing these reports, which will supplement the normal work of the Board's Audit
Committee. A more diverse range of chairpersons have come into the sector as well, as the practice of
having the Secretary (Power) be the chairman of all the company boards has been discontinued. The
foundational documents for the new South Zone company have gone further in certain aspects. The
documents include stronger provisions for a credible and independent Board of Directors, both in terms of
composition and selection process. Similarly, the selection and appointment process for top management
breaks new ground. There are also enhanced details about specific duties of each Board sub-committee.




                                                       14

                    Pillar 2--Promoting Operational and Financial Sustainability

Policy Area 2A--Power sector financial restructuring

Prior Action 2A--(i) In FY08, transfer taka 500-million per month to BPDB through budget support
mechanism; and (ii) implement first phase of financial restructuring plan

Monitoring Indicator--In FY2009, to the extent that tariffs do not cover costs, ensure financial stability of
BPDB as indicated by (i) BPDB being current with payments to IPPs and gas distribution companies
including through budget support and other measures as necessary; (ii) BPDB maintaining collections at or
above 100% (FY08 102%) of current billing; and (iii) continued implementation of financial restructuring
plan.

47.      BPDB Finances ­ BPDB continues to lose significant amounts of money on an operating basis.
Losses are driven primarily by the structural loss embedded in its bulk supply business. BPDB has
calculated the loss on each unit sold at bulk to be 0.37 taka/kWh (incorporating losses down to the 33 kV
supply point). This translates to an annual loss of over 7.5-billion taka (750 crores taka, or about 10% of
total sector revenues). These losses will increase absent adjustments to current tariffs, as contract purchases
by BPDB for medium-term supplies have been done at prices higher than current bulk sale prices. Financial
projections for BPDB, based on information available to BPDB's finance personnel, and which assume a
certain level of new contract purchases and no adjustment in tariffs, can be seen in the table on the next page.

48.      Financial losses among the other entities have been estimated, in the context of work on the power
sector financial model. Drawing on this analysis, the total financial loss in the sector could be as high as 30-
billion taka (reflecting the difference between realized revenues of just under 3.5 taka per unit and average
all-in costs of close to 5-taka per unit, on a base of over 20,000 GWh. While it is difficult to verify whether
these costs reflect efficient operations and transparent investment decisions, they are consistent with BPDB's
own estimate that a 35% increase in retail tariffs would be needed to cover costs fully.

49.      The estimated financial losses represent a subsidy from Government to consumers; most of the
subsidy is not recognized in the budget, and is therefore a quasi-fiscal transfer. Total subsidy and quasi-
fiscal transfers amount to about 30-billion taka, or over $450-million on an annual basis (at taka 66 = 1
USD). Cash operating losses are significant, at just under a third of this total amount. The positive step of
recognizing some of these amounts has been taken. GOB has allocated Tk 6-billion in the budget this fiscal
year to cover losses in the power sector; this support is specifically designed to help BPDB meet its payment
obligations to the IPPs and to gas distributors. The payment mechanism has been functioning since the
beginning of the financial year (July 1, 2007).

50.      GOB recognized this dire financial picture in its reform program, but has been challenged to
implement financial restructuring on a timely basis and, critically, stay ahead of secular deterioration in the
market highlighted by the steep increases in oil prices over the last 14 months (from $55/bbl to over $110,
since January 2007). In dialogue with the Bank, GOB committed to, then implemented both a budget
support mechanism to BPDB (mentioned above), to compensate it partially for below-cost service provision,
and the first phase of financial restructuring, which is focused on balance sheet reconciliation, asset re-
valuation, debt restructuring, and other non-price measures. BPDB has also mounted a collections drive
(part of broader anti-corruption efforts) that has helped increase revenues. These measures anticipated price
adjustment actions as well, but GOB has been forced to delay action on prices. They have, however,
initiated some analytic work to provide advice on how best to build public consensus for energy pricing
actions in general, and a power tariff adjustment is under consideration. Its timing will depend partly on
price adjustments for other energy products. CNG prices were doubled in April 2008, and diesel and
fertilizer price adjustments are also being considered.



                                                        15

  Table 3: BPDB Consolidated Financial Statements FY2004-2007 and Projection to FY2010 (Taka Millions)
                                                        Balance Sheet
                                                              ACTUAL                               PROJECTED
                                                     2003-04  2004-05    2005-06  2006-07  2007-08  2008-09   2009-10
               PROPERTY & ASSETS

FIXED ASSETS LESS DEPRECIATION                       114,748   119,930   133,473  186,688  204,327   215,784   227,241
INVESTMENT                                            15,643    15,216    15,366   14,502   13,502    13,202    12,702
CURRENT ASSETS                                        72,794    79,735    80,751   79,495   72,816    72,176    77,418
TOTAL PROPERTY & ASSETS                              203,185   214,881   229,590  280,685  290,645   301,161   317,360

              CAPITAL & LIABILITIES
PAID UP CAPITAL                                       73,526    78,157    84,647   89,323   98,550   104,550   110,550
NET SURPLUS / (DEFICIT)                              (47,094)  (53,577)  (63,234) (83,833) (96,868) (112,067) (130,583)
OTHER RESERVE                                         60,742    60,875    61,034  122,780  122,880   122,980   123,080
TOTAL SHARE HOLDERS' EQUITY                           87,174    85,455    82,447  128,270  124,562   115,463   103,047

LONG TERM LOAN                                        41,662    45,471    54,756   56,911   70,564    90,164   118,764
MEDIUM TERM LIABILITIES                                3,482     3,839     4,150    4,548    4,548     4,546     4,548
CURRENT LIABILITIES                                   65,916    75,687    84,642   87,164   87,179    87,194    87,209
CLEARING ACCOUNTS                                      4,952     4,429     3,595    3,792    3,792     3,792     3,792
TOTAL CAPITAL & LIABILITIES                          203,185   214,881   229,590  280,685  290,645   301,159   317,360


                                                       Income Statement

               OPERATING REVENUE                              ACTUAL                               PROJECTED
                                                     2003-04  2004-05    2005-06  2006-07  2007-08  2008-09   2009-10

ENERGY SALES                                          43,432    43,581    45,859   47,986   56,757    66,733    75,628
OTHER OPERATING INCOME                                 1,194     1,124       710    1,598      850     1,001     1,134
TOTAL REVENUE                                         44,626    44,705    46,568   49,583   57,607    67,734    76,762
OPERATING EXPENSES                                    42,765    47,738    53,517   56,366   67,127    79,418    91,763

OPERATING INCOME                                       1,861    (3,033)   (6,948)  (6,783)  (9,520)  (11,684)  (15,001)

Non-Operating Expenses(Interest & ERF)                 2,995     3,052     2,432    2,258    3,515     3,515     3,515

NET LOSS/INCOME FOR THE YEAR                          (1,133)   (6,086)   (9,381)  (9,041) (13,035)  (15,199)  (18,516)

               RETAINED EARNINGS
BALANCE AS AT JULY 01                                (45,688)  (47,094)  (53,577) (63,234) (83,833)  (96,868) (112,067)
PREVIOUS YEAR'S ADJUSTMENT                             (273)     (397)      (277) (11,558)
NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR                               (1,133)   (6,086)   (9,381)  (9,041) (13,035)  (15,199)  (18,516)
BALANCE AS AT JUNE 30                                (47,094)  (53,577)  (63,234) (83,833) (96,868) (112,067) (130,583)

                                                         Cash Flow Statement

                                                              ACTUAL                               PROJECTED
                                                     2003-04  2004-05    2005-06  2006-07  2007-08  2008-09   2009-10

BPDB Revenue                                          42,467    41,782    44,957   54,222   54,769    64,397    72,981
Less- Operating Expenditures (Net of Depreciation)   (38,052)  (39,879)  (47,768) (52,572) (61,533)  (73,824)  (86,170)
Net Cash From Operations                               4,415     1,902    (2,811)   1,650   (6,764)   (9,427)  (13,189)

CASH INFLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Equity & Capital Contributions                         5,534     4,631     6,491    4,676    9,327     6,100     6,100
Loans & Adjustments                                    2,543     8,358    13,259    6,917   14,395    10,700    10,700
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                                      8,076    12,988    19,750   11,593   23,722    16,800    16,800
LESS INTEREST PAYMENT                                 (1,688)    (818)    (1,506)  (2,454)  (3,500)   (3,500)   (3,500)

CASH OUTFLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES                (8,175)   (9,241)  (16,231)  (8,238) (30,854)  (22,710)  (22,510)

INCREASE/DECREASE IN CASH                              2,629     4,832      (798)   2,551  (17,396)  (18,837)  (22,399)
SUBSIDY REQUIRED FROM GOB                                                                    8,000    15,000    24,000
BALANCE B/F                                            7,360     9,989    14,821   14,023   16,567     7,171     3,333
BALANCE C/F                                            9,989    14,821    14,023   16,567    7,171     3,333     4,934




                                                             16

Policy Area 2B--Transparency and accountability in service provision

Prior Action 2B-- Tender issued for supply and installation and implementation support for large customer
metering in South Zone

Monitoring Indicator-- Contract awarded by September 2008, large customer unit established by December
2008, metering installation 35% complete by March 2009; commercial losses for those customers reduced to
zero

51.      While corporatization activities are being done, GOB has decided to move forward with a project to
re-meter all of the large customers in the South Zone service territory. These approximately 1200 customers
(out of a total customer base of over 650,000) consume over 40% of the energy distributed and represent
about 50% of revenue. GOB has initiated a project to implement automated meter reading (AMR) and set
up a new, large customer unit (centrally located in Chittagong) to manage these customers. This endeavor
can be completed in eighteen months, with financing from the on-going IDA-funded PSDTA project, and
will eliminate commercial losses in this customer segment to zero, permanently, assuming that the hardware
installation is complemented by institutional reform (especially the formation of the large customer unit).
The tender documents for supply and installation of the meters, and institutional support of the large
customer unit, has been issued. This is considered a key prior action because of the strategic importance of
instituting a new governance and commercial model in the South Zone, which historically has suffered from
high levels of commercial leakages.

52.      The combination of a technological intervention (automated, secure meters) with a complementary
institutional one (a central unit responsible for managing the commercial aspects of providing service to
large customers) is a departure from business-as-usual in Bangladesh, and merits DPC support because of
the requirement for top-level policy support to overcome vested, entrenched interests within BPDB's South
Zone distribution operations. The initiative is fully complementary to and reinforces the drive to corporatize
the South Zone, because incoming management will have the immediate prospect of being fully in control of
50% of the businesses revenue. This will be a promising base from which to assert control over other
aspects of the business, and the demonstration effect should translate to other distribution companies as well.

Policy Area 2C--Sustainable access expansion in rural areas

Prior Action 2C-- Issue tender for new REB Strategy

Monitoring Indicator--Approval of new strategy by March 2009

53.      The Rural Electrification Board (REB) along with its Palli Bidyut Samities (PBS's, or rural
electricity cooperatives) has successfully increased access to electricity in rural Bangladesh since inception.
The REB system had become a model of the cooperative approach to rural electrification over the years.
Network expansion was based on a Master Plan and specific lines were only built if they would be able to
generate a minimum level of revenue. The tariff requirement of each PBS was approved by REB based on
the individual consumer mixes and operating efficiency. Meanwhile, under the IDA-financed RERED
project, rural distribution systems have been rationalized by transferring certain BPDB lines to PBS's. In
most cases these transfers have led to significant reductions in PBS losses and a consequent increase in PBS
payments to BPDB. As a result of all these efforts, most of the country's 70 PBS' became credible service
providers, 12 PBS' became profitable, and many more broke even.

54.      REB Governance Issues--deteriorating governance of REB, both in absolute terms and relative to
the increased demand on service providers, now threatens to erode these hard-won gains. Well-grounded
REB policies and procedures for line extension and procurement were diluted by the previous elected



                                                       17

government. For example, parliament allocated funds to build 40 km of rural lines each year in selected
parliamentary constituencies (mostly, districts controlled by the ruling party alliance) were frequently spent
without adhering to REB's established "revenue criteria". Supply & installation contracts were poorly
administered resulting in collusive arrangements and inflated costs (especially for pole supply and
installation). With no new generation coming on-line, rural power service deteriorated at the same time as
connected load increased. This led eventually to GOB declaring a moratorium on new rural connections.
The government also (i) waived meter rent from all its consumers; (ii) waived the minimum bill principle;
and (iii) waived contribution by consumers against replacement of transformers due to theft. Furthermore,
PBS's stopped applying for tariff increases from REB. These decisions, plus massive load shedding, has
reduced PBS sales and resulted in only 3 PBSs (out of 70) making a profit in FY 2007.

55.      REB's institutional structure, once a major reason for the success of Bangladesh's rural electricity
program, may now have become a comparative disadvantage. REB acts as a quasi-regulator, financial
intermediary and engineering-procurement-construction agent for the PBS's. But REB's rules of business
and operational practices remain similar to those of a government department, whereas other, corporatized
power sector companies are becoming increasingly commercial in orientation. Some of the constraints
currently faced by REB in its current form are listed here:

    ·        As a statutory body, REB's autonomy in using its funds is constrained, especially since its REB
             cannot use its funds without prior approval from Ministry of Finance.

    ·        REB's organogram is approved by the Government and it cannot appoint any person to
             strengthen a department without revising the organogram. This gives REB, very little flexibility
             to manage its human resources.

    ·        REB has to follow civil service rules for its compensation and benefits. Given that most of the
             power sector entities have been transformed into companies and offer market based competitive
             packages, REB is now having trouble attracting and retaining qualified personnel.

    ·        Establishment of the energy regulatory commission has generated transitional challenges on
             REB's tariff setting function for the PBS's; partially as a result, PBS tariffs have not been
             adjusted, causing severe financial problems for some PBS's.

56.      RPCL Impact--what little spare cash there is in the REB system has been largely siphoned off to
support the REB/PBS owned Rural Power Company (RPCL), a power generation facility in Mymensingh.
The significant amount of cash transferred to RPCL, technically as loans, has resulted in PBS's being short
of funds for routine operation and maintenance. Capital costs have been about double what they should have
been ­ roughly $120-million to build a plant of 140 MW, or over $850 per installed kW. While RPCL
governance has improved of late, and its performance has picked up as well, it is also clear that reducing
(and eventually eliminating) the REB/PBS ownership stakes in RPCL makes sense, and Government has
taken initial steps towards this divestment.

57.      REB Strategy Study--REB in consultation with Power Cell has prepared a Terms of Reference to
appoint a suitable consulting firm to review REB's current business practices, policies, operational &
financial performance, and relationships among REB, the PBS's, and BERC, among other issues. The study
will build upon work conducted by USAID through NRECA about two years back, but the critical difference
now is that, under the CTG, REB has embraced the need for a comprehensive strategy study, recognizing
that the current governance structure needs to be updated and strengthened, and REB has now issued this
Request for Proposal for this study.




                                                      18

          V. BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

LINK TO CAS

58.     While the operation was not specifically identified at the time of the preparation of the current CAS,
power sector finances and governance were included within the Development Support Credit (DSC)
program of the previous CAS; it was expected that the Bank's budget support program would continue, as a
series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). These PRSCs were expected to continue support of
reforms started under the DSC program, including in the energy sector. With the advent of the current
caretaker government (CTG) in January 2007, and the completion of the DSC program with DSC-4 a few
months later, GOB and the Bank decided that development of a full PRSC program would have to wait for a
new elected government. It was also recognized that, given the time required to prepare for new elections,
GOB would need a transitional support credit (TSC), which is now scheduled for Board presentation on June
10, 2008; and that the reform issues in the power sector had become so critical and so complex that it would
be better to address them through a separate, stand-alone, sector-specific operation.


COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS

59.     The Bank's macro and power sector teams have a close relationship with counterparts in the IMF,
given the significance of the energy pricing issues in Bangladesh. For this particular operation, the IMF,
both in Washington and Dhaka, has been continuously consulted, and regularly briefed both on the financial
status of the sector and on the progress on reform. The other key donor is the ADB, which also provides
budget support to GOB that is tied to a power sector reform program. As with the proposed Bank program,
the ADB activities are linked to their overall array of investment and technical assistance support, and
include specific triggers related to both sector wide issues, like inter-company and customer arrears, and
special interest issues such as addressing pension liabilities at entities to which ADB is also making
investment loans.

60.     The program proposed for Bank support, as with the ADB program, is a subset of the overall GOB
reform strategy; key donors to the sector have endorsed the overall GOB strategy and have tied specific
aspects of it to their assistance program. The overall GOB strategy can be found in Annex 3, the Reform
Road Map 2007-2009. Other donors that are prominent in support of Bangladesh's power sector include
JBIC, DFID, and USAID, and the Bank project team has met regularly with them and cooperated closely
with them on a number of key issues. For example, JBIC anticipates supporting the new Central Zone
Power Distribution Company, so the Bank and JBIC worked together with GOB on development of
acceptable memoranda and articles of association that will be used for both South Zone and Central Zone.
Meanwhile, given USAID's historic association with the rural electrification sector in Bangladesh, the Bank
team has coordinated closely with USAID in discussions with GOB relating to REB strategy.


RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS

61.     The operation is highly complementary to the Transition Support Credit. With its power sector-
specific focus, however, it has been prepared in parallel rather than folded into the TSC. The TSC supports a
span of actions on central government institutions, with a strong governance, anti-corruption, and investment
climate orientation. Those actions will be synergistic with Power DPC efforts on accountability in state-
owned power sector entities and increased investment from the private sector; while the governance and
accountability thrust of the Power DPC will make direct contributions to an improved investment climate
and the overall anti-corruption effort.




                                                      19

62.      The Bank has three power sector operations in implementation ­ the Rural Electrification and
Renewable Energy Development (RERED) project, the Power Sector Development Technical Assistance
(PSDTA) project, and the Haripur Power project (which is a partial risk guarantee supporting one of the
country's major IPPs). There are two projects under active preparation, in addition to this proposed DPC.
The Siddhirganj Peaking Power Project (SPPP) is a gas-to-power investment operation, to be presented to
the Board within approximately the next five months; it is proposed finance a gas transmission line, 300 MW
of peaking capacity, and a power transmission line. The South Zone Power Distribution Project (SZPDP) is
intended to finance distribution network and corporate investments in the new South Zone company; it is
anticipated that this will go to the Board in FY09. Should GOB make a request to the Bank, it is also
possible that a PRG would be prepared to support the Bibiyana IPP financing anticipated to close in FY09.

63.      This portfolio reflects the country and sector strategy of the Bank: it recognizes the economic and
social development priority of the energy sector in general, and power sector specifically; it positions the
Bank firmly within the major areas of public and private financing across the span of the sector, from rural
electrification through to network generation, transmission and distribution; and it includes a critical linkage
to the gas sector. By helping to drive the timetable, and quality, of the GOB's sector reform program, the
proposed DPC should facilitate future private and public investments. The proposed Power DPC does not
however depend on future operations (whether budget support, or specific investments) for impact; rather the
specific actions are items for which implementation is supported through current Bank operational
engagements. PSDTA supports the implementation of the financial restructuring plan, South Zone analytic
and metering investment work, BERC capacity building, and the REB strategy study. RERED provides the
basis for the broader engagement with REB and will facilitate implementation of strategy recommendations.
IFC Advisory Services is working as the GOB's transaction advisor on Bibiyana (at no financial cost to
GOB, as IFC costs are financed by bilateral donors), and these services will continue through financial close
of the project. Finally, the IMF and the Bank are working closely, but quietly, with GOB on sensitive
energy pricing matters, with GOB in the lead, as they should be, on specific timing, magnitude and structural
aspects of energy pricing adjustments.


LESSONS LEARNED

64.      The key lessons underpinning the design of this operation stem from the experience of the
Development Support Credit program. Over the course of the DSC operations, which explicitly covered
energy sector structural and pricing reform, progress related to energy-related triggers was uneven, though
aspects of the program were notably successful and have proven sustainable. In particular, the DSC program
supported a progressive improvement in commercial performance in terms of arrears from key customer
categories, and in terms of overall collections, which are over 90% in Bangladesh. The program also helped
GOB advance on several important policy and regulatory issues including captive generation policy, IPP
development, and generation financing. This record of performance reflects the wide, multi-sectoral scope
of the DSC program, but also the deep-rooted problems that need to be addressed in the energy sector. For
these reasons, one of the conclusions of the DSC program was that in future, energy sector reform would be
best served by a separate, sector DPC operation.

       Box 1 ­ Alignment of Proposed Operation with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality

A.       Ownership--The operation supports GOB policy, as demonstrated by the summary of GOB's power sector
policy which is provided in the main text and in Annex 3.

B.       Harmonization--GOB policy is supported by a set of donors that are organized in an energy sector Local
Consultative Group (a subset of the larger LCG); the leading donors are IDA, ADB, and JBIC, all of which have
explicitly endorsed and actively support the Reform Road Map. The accountability framework is underpinned by
regular updates of the rolling, 3-year Road Map, and regular reports to the Energy LCG, including GOB presentation of
a sector report card that details operational and reform progress.



                                                            20

C.        Customization--Bangladesh presents a challenging environment, especially in political economy terms, for
advancing power sector reform, and the policy program proposed for support from the Bank reflects these challenges.
In a particular, the approach to financial restructuring is to emphasize governance actions and non-price steps (while
supporting incremental pricing adjustments, as in March 2007), so that the basis for and legitimacy of further pricing
actions is enhanced.

D.        Criticality--The package of prior actions is a limited subset of GOB's overall reform program and has been
identified as having potential for high impact, based on political economy analysis and the alignment with the core
pillars for the proposed operation of financial restructuring, governance improvements, and attraction of capital.

E.        Transparency and Predictability--Over the course of the last two years, Bangladesh's energy sector authorities
have greatly enhanced the transparency of both reform progress and day-to-day sector operations. There is public, and
therefore donor partner, access to regular performance monitoring reports (internet-based), including daily power
generation and load shedding reports, daily gas production data by field and producer, as well as regular updates on
reform activities ranging from the public release of consultant reports to progress against the Reform Road Map. The
proposed operation will help to make broader reform progress more predictable, in the timing of its implementation, as
well as assist in raising the quality of specific actions and processes.

65.       A broader lesson from regional experience has also informed project design. Particularly in India,
but also in past investment operations in Bangladesh, the approach was to combine specific investment
lending with sector reform conditionality. This binding of investment and policy reform did not have a good
record in supporting sustainable reform (or, in some cases, even sustainable investments)--the primary
reason being that policy and investment activities operate on such different timelines, and with different
stakeholders, that it is unwieldy to try and bind them together too closely. South Asia's experience has had a
major influence on Bank thinking in this area, and has contributed to OPCS guidance on sector-wide
conditionality in investment lending operations--which is have no such conditionality, provided that key
sector reforms can be supported through other mechanisms such as budget support operations. The approach
is also endorsed by IEG work in this area. At the core of this thinking is the realization that with specific
investment loans, the point of maximum leverage on reform-related matters occurs in advance of Board
presentation, and then it is gone. With budget support operations, particularly one that is well-rooted in a
reform strategy that has deep ownership on the part of Government (as is the case in Bangladesh), the points
of pressure--from the finance and energy ministries, and the Bank--are multiple and recurring, translating
into higher probability of successful and sustainable reform.


ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

66.       The project is grounded in the Government's reform program, and that has been informed by a range
of high-quality analytic inputs. Financial restructuring is under implementation and based on a detailed plan
that was developed by GOB with support from the Bank. The IPP process is grounded in earlier, successful
IPP deals from the late 1990s, which were strongly supported by ADB and the Bank; for the Bibiyana deal,
GOB has advisory support from IFC, while ADB is funding consultants helping on the Sirajganj tender. The
IPP process is based on a Power Sector Master Plan supported by ADB. South Zone corporatization and
large customer metering components come out of analytic work supported by the Bank; subsequently, GOB,
IDA, and JBIC have worked closely on further development of the corporatization documentation. BERC's
implementing legislation is based on international best practice, and the institution itself has been assisted by
USAID since its initial formation. Going forward, both USAID and the Bank will continue to facilitate the
provision of technical assistance to BERC. The result of the full range of this work is a reform program that
is well designed both in its overall principles and in its specific components; that the authorities are
supported by implementation consultants and on-going advisory services is important, because historically,
well-designed reforms have been unevenly implemented in Bangladesh.




                                                              21

                         VI. OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT

67.      No negative impacts on poor households are expected from the set of policy actions supported by the
proposed credit. The Power DPC operation seeks to strengthen certain core institutions of accountability in
the power sector. It is also highly complementary to the TSC and its focus on governance and on building a
stronger investment climate for the accelerated growth which has been and will continue to be the main
engine of poverty reduction. To the extent that the Power DPC contributes to sustained growth, and helps to
diminish the prevalence of corruption in the power sector, it will make a positive impact on poverty. Growth
impacts, however, will not materialize immediately; nor will it be possible, in the short-term, for Bangladesh
to greatly accelerate its electrification program, other than for solar home systems, because of inadequate
power generation capacity. These limiting factors mean that, in the short term, impacts both positive and
negative will be very limited indeed (or non-existent).

68.      The specific reform measures are being undertaken in a context in which most poor households are
not connected to the electricity network. Only 15% of the poorest quintile, and 28% of the second poorest,
report using electricity for their lighting needs; and only 2 percent of the household expenditure of these
bottom two quintiles is on petroleum products, gas, and electricity. In at least some of these households, the
source of supply is solar home systems, the costs of which are unaffected by network tariff adjustments
(there are about 180,000 solar home systems installed in Bangladesh, and the Bank and other donors are
assisting GOB with an accelerated roll-out of this technology). Grid-connected, poor households consume
small amounts of power and would be within the lifeline block--i.e. they consume less than 100 kWh per
month. But all household consumers receive the lifeline benefit in Bangladesh, and most grid-connected
consumers are not poor. This means that electricity subsidies in Bangladesh are highly regressive, with over
80% of the total estimated subsidy accruing to the non-poor. It will be important, going forward, that better
targeting of subsidies becomes an element of GOB's financial sustainability approach in the sector, though
initial steps are likely to be only modest in nature because of the multiple shocks being endured by the
Bangladeshi consumer at this time.3

69.      Given the focus of the policy actions on better governance, the key affected stakeholder group that
will be negatively impacted are those individuals and groups in policy and operational positions that are
currently benefiting from corrupt practices.       For example, many of the past generation procurement
processes have suffered from a lack of transparency; the Bibiyana process, by contrast, has been
characterized by transparency and accountability. South Zone large customer metering will eliminate
corruption (characterized as "commercial losses") that has riddled the customer interface in that service
category; nearly 100% of distribution customers in Bangladesh report corruption on the part of meter
readers, according to the most recent investment climate survey. The actions supported by the credit do not,
however, ignore the importance of this source of income for employees of BPDB; one of the effects of
corporatization is that it provides for the adjustment of wages and salaries to market levels, and this is a key
mechanism for reducing the incentive (indeed, for some, the necessity) for corrupt behavior.

70.      Positive impacts will arise, down the road, stemming from many of the specific policy actions of the
credit. Stabilizing sector finances helps with service continuity and lays the foundation for deeper financial
restructuring. Non-price aspects of financial restructuring are designed to reduce, as much as possible, the
requirement for tariff increases, and to encourage efficient operations. Successful IPP investments will add


3The World Bank and IMF argue that targeted transfers using the budgetary savings to compensate the poor would be a
much more efficient way of protecting them from higher prices. For further details and analyses, refer to "Impact of
Fuel Prices on Bangladeshi Households: Evidence from Household Data" (World Bank, February 2006), and
"Bangladesh: The Distributional Impact of Energy Sector Price Reforms," (IMF, 2006).


                                                        22

capacity to the grid, increasing the availability of energy in the network, and laying the foundation for
increased electrification. The two actions related to the South Zone company are both designed to promote
that company's ability to provide excellent service to its customers in the most efficient, and therefore least
cost, manner possible. Initially this will benefit mainly existing customers, including those living in slums--
formalization of existing slum connections will be an important objective of the new company. Down the
road, and assuming greater generation availability, the company will also be able to reach new customers.
REB revitalization will be directly relevant to Bangladesh's ability to re-start its electrification drive.
Financial stabilization of REB will lay the foundation not only for renewed investment in new and
rehabilitated rural lines, but also make REB a viable offtaker of new generation in its own right. This is
already happening--REB's strong, historic payment record means that it has been able to attract small IPPs
(some financed by the Bank's IPFF project) to connect to the REB system directly. More such deals can be
anticipated in future, provided that REB charts a strong path to financial sustainability.

71.      BERC should also make a contribution to social protection, down the road, given that its mandate in
part relates to both defending the rights and interests of consumers, and to factoring GOB subsidy policy into
the administration of pricing. While there remains significant work to be done on subsidy policy generally
and specifically on BERC's administrative role, the faster that the regulatory agency can develop its capacity
in this area, the faster that at least some de-politicization of pricing can be anticipated. This should result in
outcomes that are fair for consumers--both those that merit targeted social protection, and those that do not.
The Bank is supporting this agenda through technical assistance, directly to BERC on institutional
strengthening, and to the power sector in general, through work focused on managing the social impact of
restructuring, including the labor relations aspects.


ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS

72.      A Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) was completed for Bangladesh in 2007; because most of
the power produced in Bangladesh comes from gas-fired capacity, the power sector was not identified as a
significant contributor to environmental degradation in Bangladesh. The CEA did, however, identify
capacity weaknesses at the Ministry of Environment and Forests, and the Bank has moved to help address
these deficiencies through a closer operational engagement. The policy actions supported by the Power DPC
will have limited to no negative impacts on the environment, natural resources, or forests. However, the
operation will contribute to better environmental and social impact management, over time, by promoting
enhanced transparency and accountability in the sector, and by helping to introduce best practice in
environmental management of generation plants.              By policy action, environmental impact can be
characterized as follows:

73.      Financial stability and restructuring--there are no negative impacts associated with financial
restructuring of the sector. Over the medium and long term, there will be positive outcomes, when compared
to a business-as-usual case, because better economic regulation will provide the maximum incentive for
efficient operation, good investment decisions, and effective demand-side management.                 Inefficient
consumption of electricity that is due to mis-pricing might continue longer than it should, however, to the
extent that critical pricing adjustment decisions are delayed.

74.      Support of the Bibiyana IPP process--both negative and positive impacts will be generated. As with
any gas-fired generation project, there will be impacts to land, water, and air that will occur because the
project is being implemented. Compared to alternatives available, these impacts should be manageable.
Land will need to be acquired, but the land in question is in the northeast and resettlement impacts will be
very limited; gas-fired combined cycle technology is also an efficient user of land compared to other
technologies. The project will draw on local water resources, but will employ a closed loop cooling water
system and so will be highly water efficient. Air quality will be only marginally impacted, which is
normally the case with gas-fired capacity. Emissions associated with a gas-fired power plant will be low



                                                         23

impact (in terms of sulfur, nitrous oxide, and carbon dioxide) because of the high quality of Bangladeshi
natural gas, and will be much lower compared to any other thermal technology. Positive impacts will result
because any alleviation of load shedding will reduce the use of smaller, highly polluting generators that are
usually located within urban areas, where their emission have maximum impact on local air quality. The
plant will be a combined cycle plant with efficiencies approaching 60%--contributing to Bangladesh's
priority of extending the life of its natural gas reserves.

75.      Bank support to the earlier Haripur and Meghnaghat IPPs indicates the potential that private
investment has in driving the environmental agenda forward in Bangladesh. The private operator of these
plants has achieved the highest level of ISO certification for the facilities, which is a reflection of sound
environmental practices. The environmental performance of both plants, since commercial operations began
earlier this decade, has been excellent. Meanwhile, the operator has pro-actively identified water and air
quality issues in the local area of each plant where there are mutual dependencies, and worked with owners
of neighboring industries on such issues as water quality and industrial emissions (for example, the Haripur
plant has worked with a neighboring particle board factory to install emissions control; this is good generally
for the local environment, but also means that Haripur air filters last longer). Given the importance of sound
environmental management practices in international energy companies, both for front-line business and for
corporate social responsibility purposes, it is expected that the Bibiyana IPP will be similarly operated at a
high standard.

76.      A broader environmental benefit for Bangladesh will occur if the parallel moves to attract new
investment in power generation, and new investment in natural gas exploration and production, are
successful. Without additional gas supplies, new generation developments after Bibiyana and a handful of
other power plants will probably need to be coal-fired, using domestic coal. A move to coal will have both
more damaging local and regional environmental impacts, but will also accelerate the growth rate in
Bangladesh's carbon emissions. The Bank has begun a dialogue with the authorities around climate change
and carbon-efficient strategies, including a growing portfolio of energy efficiency projects that are partially
supported by carbon finance, through the Clean Development Mechanism.

77.      Operationalization of BERC--no negative impacts; positive impacts would be expected by
regulatory vigilance and pressure on operating companies to minimize losses and maximize efficiency. In
the longer run, pricing adjustments would also have important demand-signaling effects; these would no be
expected, by any means, to reduce electricity consumption, but they would promote a more sustainable
demand growth pattern and incentivize investments in energy efficiency.

78.      Establishment of the South Zone Power Distribution Company--should promote better
environmental management in South Zone operations, and lay the foundation for better interaction between
the company and its customers in meeting and managing customers' demand for energy services.

79.      Large customer metering project in the South Zone ­ this will contribute directly to better load
management of 40%, by energy, of the South Zone's sales. As such, it can be expected to have immediate,
and long-lasting, energy efficiency benefits, once the meters are installed. These will stem from the ability
of service provider and consumer to better manage the quantity and pattern of demand, leading to reduced
reliance on captive generation. It might also lead to other benefits such as installation of more efficient
equipment on the customer end; this benefit arises from the establishment of a dedicated large customer unit
within the South Zone business. Units such as this are well established in comparable utilities and generally
have a mandate to work with customers so that they are aware of the full range of operational and
infrastructure approaches to maximize the efficiency of their energy use.

80.      REB Strategy--no negative impacts. From its inception REB has been a pioneer in integrating
expansion of rural services with good operational and environmental management, and these good practices
will continue and be reinforced if the strategy, as expected, helps to restore REB's financial health and



                                                         24

promotes its growth. Growth is critical for realization of additional environmental benefits, because poor
households that get electricity connections reduce their consumption of locally polluting fuels like dung,
charcoal, kerosene, and paraffin. These tend to provide relatively inferior heat and light but are the cause of
high levels of indoor air pollution. As Bangladesh remains over 50% dependent on such traditional fuels in
terms of primary energy demand, the policy objective of full electrification by 2020 will have strong,
positive environmental externalities associated with it.


IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION

81.     The suite of prior actions are policy-intensive elements of broader restructuring efforts to bolster
supply, reform the customer interface, build institutions, and strengthen sector finances. Before these
specific actions, there were precedent actions; and following these actions, there are further reform steps that
are mapped out and flow logically as a natural consequence of the prior action. These further reform steps,
in many cases, are already happening:

             · Shortlisting has been done for the Bibiyana IPP, and the process has continued through
                 bidder conferences, document finalization, and, soon, tender issuance. Bids could be due to
                 Government by July, and the award could be finalized well before elections.

             · Financial restructuring is proceeding apace, and there is consultant support to BPDB and the
                 other entities that extends well into the next calendar year. Collection and anti-corruption
                 drives continue, and the budget support has been extended into FY2009.

             · BERC's final administrative establishment has been done coincidentally with appointment
                 of a full slate of commissioners; meanwhile, they have begun active dialogue with
                 stakeholders on the PPAs for both Bibiyana and Siddhirganj, and have issued generation
                 tariff regulations. As part of the follow-on steps for South Zone registration, license
                 issuance procedures will also be initiated soon.

             · The REB tender has been issued and no delay is anticipated in the rapid execution of this
                 assignment.

             · Following South Zone registration, an interim Board will be appointed and the selection
                 procedures, specified in the Articles of Association, will be implemented both for the
                 permanent Board and for the Managing Director of the new firm. In parallel, preparation is
                 advancing for formation of the large customer unit so that the large customer meters can be
                 implemented efficiently. South Zone managers, supported by consultants, will also initiate
                 steps leading to formation of a large customer association, so that a significant demand-pull
                 can be amplified (large customers support the move to automated metering because of the
                 extortionary arrangements under which many of them are currently served).

82.     Assurance on implementation is a primary risk mitigation tactic.           There is a high degree of
confidence that initial implementation steps can be built upon successfully; close monitoring, facilitated by
the tight links of these policy areas to existing Bank operations, will help Bank supervisory staff identify
lagging implementation quickly, and assist GOB in taking corrective action.

83.     The key counterpart agencies will be the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Power, Energy and
Mineral Resources (MPEMR). The Ministry currently monitors reform progress in the power sector through
the Power Cell, which is a part of the Power Division of the Ministry. Power Cell currently reports regularly
on overall reform implementation progress within the context of PSDTA. This monitoring framework has
now been updated twice, and is presented as Annex 3 (the Power Sector Reform Road Map) in this



                                                        25

document. As might be expected, implementation of reform continues to be challenging and GOB does not
always hit the scheduling milestones that it sets for itself, but the Road Map has become a useful tool for
GOB both in its on-going efforts to advance reform and in its dialogue with its donor partners.

84.      Over the tenure of the CTG, monitoring and evaluation of power sector performance in general has
markedly improved. Greater accountability and reporting mechanisms have been put in place at the entity
level; for example, detailed, daily operational reports are prepared and made publicly available, over the
internet, for both power generation production and load shedding, and for natural gas production and
consumption. MPEMR has sought to extend the scope of operational performance reporting in the power
sector by developing a monitoring framework covering a wide range of data, tailored to the specific
generation, transmission, or distribution activities of the specific entities. The monitoring mechanism is a
precursor to a full-blown performance target setting and monitoring regime. This requirement has been
officially communicated to the companies by an official Government order.                Performance Target
Agreements (PTAs) are a part of the larger GOB drive for accountability of corporatized entities that is
reflected in the foundational documents ­ the Memorandum and Articles of Association ­ that underpin the
registration of the South Zone Power Distribution Company. The Bank has been able to mobilize technical
assistance from AusAID and DFID to help companies with both performance target setting and monitoring,
and is in the process of agreeing with GOB the details of this assistance at this time.

85.      The effectiveness of the monitoring mechanisms outlined above will be limited, in the short term, by
the reliability of data coming up from within the companies. A core problem relates to the inadequacy of
metering data--whether because meters are unreliable, are not read properly or diligently, or because some
critical boundary points are simply not metered at all. The policy actions taken by GOB as part of this
operation will address some of these issues. For example, analytic work conducted jointly by GOB and the
Bank in Chittagong has strongly indicated the need for the full implementation of automated meters for large
customers there. This step alone, it is estimated, will reduce commercial losses (i.e., losses due to theft,
inaccurate metering, or mis-billing) to zero, forever, and increase revenues in the South Zone by at least 4%.
Complementing this large retail customer metering, the Bank is also financing system meters, which will
allow more accurate tracking of wholesale energy flows among the generation, transmission and distribution
segments.

86.      On-going financial health of key operating entities is of major concern. BPDB and REB provide
regular reporting to Government, and the Bank, as to their financial status, including detailed data on
payables, to key suppliers, and receivables, from key customer segments. In order to facilitate a wider
public scrutiny of financial performance of BPDB, Ministry of Finance has started posting quarterly reports
of their finances on its website. The two rounds of performance reports have already been posted on the
website for the first two quarters of FY08. These reports indicate the contribution to financial stability, over
the past year, of the budget transfer mechanism combined with the impact of the April 2007 price increase.
There has been no repeat of the IPP payment crisis of early 2007, and BPDB has been able to pay both the
IPPs and the gas companies on a regular basis for all of the current financial year. Government will need to
look again, however, at a combination of price adjustments and extended budget support to BPDB for the
next financial year, given the increased expenses that are projected as additional contract generation comes
on-line. Government's plan for this coming financial year will be reviewed at appraisal, and in the context
of commitments made within the framework of the TSC, where GOB committed to use a combination of
measures, including pricing adjustments, to enable energy service providers to cover their costs.

87.      The power sector monitoring framework will be boosted as well by the final steps that have been
taken as part of this operation to operationalize, in full, BERC. While the administrative steps in and of
themselves may not seem overly dramatic, the impact of the actions to approve BERC's recruitment rules,
organogram, and table of equipment (TOE) will be to enable BERC to hire staff, commit resources, and
generally set about executing its legal responsibilities without any further administrative barriers. This has



                                                       26

already resulted in approval of new generation tariff regulations, which are a positive step towards full cost
recovery principles for the sector as a whole (since they would ring-fence new state-sponsored generation
projects from the possibility of below-cost rates). The actions supported by the Power DPC will also enable
BERC to move forward with issuance of license for all operators in the sector. This step will enhance the
monitoring framework because performance reporting, for regulatory purposes, is part of the licensing
structure. The Bank and USAID have in place technical assistance to help BERC with these tasks and to
accelerate the pace with which incoming BERC staff is able to be effective.

88.      GOB, in moving past the shortlisting phase of the Bibiyana IPP transaction, has taken a critical and
credible process step, but the only measure, ultimately, of success or failure is whether or not a good deal
gets done that results in reliable capacity coming on-line at reasonable cost. The outcome of this high-
profile deal will thus be obvious, but the Bank will continue to monitor closely that transparency and
accountability around the transaction.

89.      It is recognized that issuance of the REB strategy tender does not in and of itself amount to a strong
policy action, but the policy content behind the tender process must be understood in full context. Under the
regime of the past, elected government, REB governance deteriorated and so did the financial health of most
of the individual cooperatives within the REB network.            In that previous environment, even the
commissioning of strategy work was incredibly controversial, because of the transparency that would be
brought on the specific aspects of this governance deterioration. In these new, changed circumstances, REB
itself is championing the launch of the strategy effort, with specific policy outcomes in mind--especially,
reduced political interference, that had led to an interruption in past, financially prudent investment
approaches; and a restoration of partnership strategies with customers that had been the basis for a highly
equitable mode of service provision. Monitoring and evaluation of this action will therefore come in two
stages; first, approval of strategy recommendations promoting good governance and financial integrity; and
second, implementation of those recommendations such that REB returns to being a paragon of sustainable
rural electrification practices.


ADMINISTRATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING

90.      Borrower, Credit Amount, Terms and Tranching--the borrower is the People's Republic of
Bangladesh. A single tranche Credit of about SDR 73.7-million (US$120 million equivalent) would be
made available upon credit effectiveness, anticipated for June 2008. The closing date of the Credit is March
31, 2009. The administration of this credit (and/or) credit will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance.

91.      Disbursement--the proposed credit will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for
development policy credits. The finances will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the
development policy operation and not tied to any specific purchases. Once the credit is approved by the
Board and becomes effective, the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed in one single tranche to a specific
deposit account of the Ministry of Finance established at Bangladesh Bank for this purpose; the deposit
account is part of the country's official foreign exchange reserves. The Government will be required to
provide a confirmation to the Bank that the proceeds of the credit have been received in the designated
deposit account and that an equivalent amount in local currency has also been credited to an account of the
government available to finance budgeted expenditures. Transactions and balances of the Government
account will be fully incorporated into the Government's accounting records and financial statements.
Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will be needed.
If any portion of the Credit proceeds is used for ineligible purposes as defined by the Financing Agreement,
IDA will require the Borrower either to return that amount to the deposit account or refund the amount
directly to IDA. The Bank assessed that the above measures would provide adequate fiduciary arrangements
for the operation.



                                                      27

92.     Fiduciary Aspects (procurement and financial management)--Fiduciary arrangements for this
operation are no different from the fiduciary arrangements used for managing the Government's own foreign
exchange reserves at the Central Bank and budgetary resources through the treasury system. While recent
assessments of the fiduciary arrangements continue to highlight a weak environment, efforts have been made
in recent years to improve the systems, with significant results.

    · First, over the last several years. GoB has been addressing key weaknesses in financial management,
        through a series of reform programs supported by DFID, World Bank and a few other development
        partners.. Recent initiatives include: (i) computerization of accounts and strengthening of the
        Controller General of Accounts system with production of monthly accounts with a lag of five
        weeks compared to the previous six months (ii) the improved reporting of fiscal data with
        Bangladesh being included for the first time in the government Finance Statistics ( GFS) Year Book
        (iii) Introduction of Medium term Budgetary Framework ( MTBF) (iv) Annual audit with a time lag
        of 10 to 11 months after the end of fiscal year compared to previous two years and an (v) reduction
        by the Public Accounts Committee of the Parliament of the backlog of audited accounts for its
        review.

    · Second, on the foreign exchange side, the most recent IMF safeguard assessment confirmed that
        progress had been made on strengthening BB's safeguards framework in a number of areas,
        including through the publication of BB's financial accounts (according to International Financial
        Reporting Standards (IFRS)), reconciliation of monetary data reported to the IMF with the audited
        accounts and improvements in foreign exchange management. Starting from FY03, BB has had its
        financial statements audited by an internationally affiliated audit firm in full compliance with
        international standards on auditing. The auditor expressed an unqualified opinion and indicted that
        the financial statements were prepared in accordance with IFRS and the report did not indicate any
        weaknesses in foreign exchange management.

    · Third, Bangladesh over the last few years has been making good progress in improving the
        transparency and competitiveness in public procurement. GoB has made the Public Procurement
        Act 2006 (PPA) effective from January 31, 2008 and issued Public Procurement Rules 2008 (PPR).
        With greater awareness, all public procuring entities have started following this law with varying
        degrees including the complaint redress mechanism by independent review panels, publication of
        bid notices and contract award in websites with procurement performance data of two leading
        agencies (Rural Electrification Board-REB and Local Government Engineering Department-
        LGED).

    · Though procurement reforms have made good progress, there are number of cross-cutting
        governance issues including inadequate enforcement of regulations, delays in award, allegations of
        fraud and corruption, and political interference. To sustain reform, GOB, with Bank's assistance,
        has started the implementation of a second public procurement reform project (PPRP II), largely
        focusing on the implementation and monitoring challenges including e-procurement and social
        accountability in the key sectors. Building on this engagement, the Bank intends to work toward
        agreement with GOB on quantitative monitoring standards that will be designed to limit delays in
        awards and mis-procurements; such a system could be piloted in a specific Bank-financed project
        where there are multiple contracts anticipated over the life of the project, and where contracting
        efficiency will be central to project success.

93.     A joint World Bank, DFID and GoB review of the institutional arrangements for Public Expenditure,
Financial Management and Procurement completed in June 2005 revealed that Bangladesh public
expenditure management institutions need to be significantly strengthened. The review that was carried out
under Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) framework also confirmed that links in the



                                                      28

public financial accountability chain in Bangladesh continue to be weak. Internal and external controls
remain weak, significant delay in audit follow up and taking corrective actions and ineffective parliamentary
oversight of the whole budget process. The GoB acknowledges the current weaknesses and challenges
facing the public financial management systems and institutions and agreed with Development Partners to
launch a second generation PFM reform program. The Public Financial Management Improvement Program
(PFMIP), currently under preparation, will be supported by five donors under a World Bank administered
multi- donor trust fund (MDTF). The existing level of PFM performance together with the positive
trajectory of changes and the government's commitment to reforms provide an adequate environment to
support the proposed DPC operation.


BENEFITS, RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

94.      Benefits--weak governance has long been recognized as a serious development issue in Bangladesh,
and that issue has particularly affected the evolution of the power sector. The main benefit of the operation
is strengthened sector governance, and incremental improvements in sector financial stability, which
together contribute to lay the foundation for further moves to full financial health in the medium term. Other
tangible benefits include the demonstration of more efficient (and less corrupt) procurement processes; lower
technical and commercial losses; and better service delivery. Strengthened governance will in part be
underpinned by better and more integrated implementation of the GOB reform program, which is seen as a
direct benefit of the enhanced engagement that the Bank will have if the proposed Power DPC operation
goes forward.

95.      Risks--there are substantial risks going forward. The operation would take place in the context of a
high risk sector in a high risk country; on balance, however, given the CTG commitment to power sector
reform, it may be more risky to not do the operation, given the danger of major implementation delays in the
GOB reform program in the absence of the external support afforded by the proposed operation. There will
also be, inevitably, a delay in policy decisions as the election nears, and that will continue for some time
until a new government has its team in place. But while policy decisions will not be made during that
period, implementation of policy decisions already made is highly likely to continue, and without necessarily
any delay. This is because so much of the implementation responsibility is at the level of independent or
corporatized elements of the power sector. The election-related paralysis on the policy institutions is a major
risk for only one of the policy areas--that related to the IPP program. As major investments, and given the
nature of the GOB security package to be offered to investors in support of the deal, Bibiyana and other
major IPPs will require final approvals from top levels of government. The Bibiyana timeline does
recognize this, which is another reason why it is critical to support GOB efforts--so that risks of slippage on
critical IPP projects are lessened.

96.      Risks are substantially implementation-related ­ namely that GOB fails to implement reforms in the
intended spirit (a past example would be the passage of the BERC Act in 2003 and then a failure to
operationalize the agency for five years). There are also factors outside the control of the authorities that
need to be considered ­ namely, external shocks that force changes in the timelines or content of reform. It
should be noted that, despite major floods, a devastating cyclone, and unprecedented, coincident food and
energy price inflation, GOB has continued to press ahead with the power sector reform agenda, though
timing on some items, particularly pricing adjustments, has been affected.

97.      Risk Mitigation--the primary risk mitigation approach is focused on operating within the art of the
possible. The operation is designed to promote the acceleration of reform, the quality of reform content, and
the sustainability of implementation. It addresses risk by approaching difficult issues in an incremental
fashion; and supports reform actions that are both important and distinguishable by a high, observable level
of Government ownership. Finally, a key to the risk mitigation approach is that the reform actions are also
tied to other Bank operational interventions, whether the TSC, or the various sector-level TA and investment



                                                       29

operations that are on-going. Risks would be further mitigated in the event that planned investment
operations go forward, but the Power DPC does not depend on those other prospective operations in terms of
potential impact or risk mitigation.




                                                  30

ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




                   31

32

33

34

                         Annex 2: Reform areas and actions to be supported by the
                          Power Sector Development Policy Credit (Power DPC)


                                Reform being                Actions to be         Monitorable Development
      Policy Area           supported by Power         completed by Power                   Indicators
                                      DPC                  DPC appraisal

Pillar 1--Building Strong Institutions of Accountability

1A--Private sector         Transparent, competitive   Shortlisting for         Bibiyana IPP tendered and awarded,
participation in power     and accountable process    Bibiyana IPP completed   and progress toward financial close,
generation                 for attraction of new                               by March 2009; other generation
                           private investment in                               procurements conducted according
                           power generation                                    to transparent processes

1B--Regulatory             Full operationalization of Approval of service      Progress on issuing licenses to 6
institutional reform and   the Bangladesh Energy      rules, organogram and    distribution companies, and on
strengthening              Regulatory Commission      table of equipment for   approval of Bibiyana and
                                                      the Bangladesh Energy    Siddhirganj PPAs, by March 2009
                                                      Regulatory Commission

1C--Corporate              Corporatization of         Registration of South    Appointment of top management
governance of state-       operating entities to      Zone Power               team and transition from interim
owned enterprises in the   promote more effective     Distribution Company     Board of Directors by December
power sector               and accountable            as a public limited      2008
                           performance                company

Pillar 2--Promoting Operational and Financial Sustainability

2A--Power sector           Introduction of budget     (i) In FY08, transfer    In FY2009, to the extent that tariffs
financial restructuring    mechanism to               taka 500-million per     do not cover costs, ensure financial
                           compensate BPDB for        month to BPDB            stability of BPDB as indicated by (i)
                           below-cost provision of    through budget support   BPDB being current with payments
                           bulk energy to             mechanism; (ii)          to IPPs and gas distribution
                           distribution companies     implement first phase of companies including through budget
                                                      financial restructuring  support and other measures as
                                                      plan                     necessary; (ii) BPDB maintaining
                                                                               collections at or above 100% (FY08
                                                                               102%) of current billing; and (iii)
                                                                               continued implementation of
                                                                               financial restructuring plan.

2B--Transparency and       Restructuring the          Tender issued for        Contract awarded by September
accountability in service  customer management        supply and installation  2008, large customer unit
provision                  interface to eliminate     and implementation       established by December 2008,
                           possibilities for          support for large        metering installation at least 35%
                           corruption by power        customer metering in     complete by March 2009;
                           distribution company       South Zone               commercial losses for those
                           personnel                                           customers reduced to zero; progress
                                                                               in metering initiatives in other
                                                                               distribution entities.

2C--Sustainable access     Restructuring of REB       Issue tender for new     Approval of new strategy by March
expansion in rural areas   business model             REB Strategy             2009




                                                     35

                    Annex 3




           3-Year Road Map
                      For
         Power Sector Reform

                (2008 - 2010)




              Power Division
Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources
 Govt. of the People's Republic of Bangladesh




                    April 2008
                    (2nd Update)




                      36

     Contents


Power Sector Reforms in Bangladesh

Introduction

Reform Initiatives

Reform Objectives

Components of Reform

Progress of Reform


Road Map for Institutional Reforms

Introduction

Generation

Transmission

Distribution

Sector Regulation

Power Market Structure

Implementation and
Monitoring Approach


Year wise Target

Year 2007

Year 2008

Year 2009


Annexure- A
(Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform)




                             37

            Acronyms and Abbreviations


APSCL Ashuganj Power Station Company Limited.
BERC        Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission
BPDB        Bangladesh Power Development Board
CFL         Compact Fluorescent Lamp
CZPDC       Central Zone Power Distribution Company
DESA        Dhaka Electric Supply Authority
DESCO       Dhaka Electric Supply Company
DPDC        Dhaka Power Distribution Company
DSA         Development Service Agreement
DSM         Demand Side Management
EGCB        Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh
ERD         Economic Relations Divisions
FRP         Financial Restructuring Plan
GOB         Government of Bangladesh
HRD         Human Resources Development
IIFC        Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center
IMED        Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division
IPP         Independent Power Producer
LDC         Load Dispatch Center
LGED        Local Government Engineering Department
MIS         Management Information System
NWZPDC      North West Zone Power Distribution Company
NWPGC North West Power Generation Company Limited
PBS         Palli Biddyut Samity (Rural Electric Cooperatives)
PC          Power Cell
PGCB        Power Grid Company of Bangladesh
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSMP        Power System Master Plan
PSRB        Power Sector Reform in Bangladesh
PTA         Performance Target Agreement
RAPSS       Remote Area Power Supply System
REB         Rural Electrification Board
RFP         Request for Proposal
SBU         Strategic Business Unit
SEDA        Sustainable Energy Development Agency
SEU         Sustainable Energy Unit
SHS         Solar Home Systems
SZPDC       South Zone Power Distribution Company
TQM         Total Quality Management
WZPDC       West Zone Power Distribution Company




                                     38

                      Power Sector Reform in Bangladesh


Introduction

Providing access to affordable and reliable electricity to all citizens by 2020 is a befitting national
goal of the Government of Bangladesh (the Government). GOB is currently working with an
interim target of providing electricity to 60% of the population by 2010. At present electricity
coverage in Bangladesh is only 43% and per capita electricity consumption is about 140 kWh
which is one of the lowest in the World.

It is recognized that the pace of power sector development has to be accelerated in order to
achieve overall economic development of the country. To upgrade the socio-economic condition
and to alleviate poverty, electricity sector has been prioritized by the Government.

As power projects are capital intensive, developing adequate generation, transmission and
distribution facilities to provide reliable and quality power supply to the population is a challenge
for the Government. Therefore, to materialize GOB's vision, active participation of the private
entrepreneurs and power sector reform & restructuring are essential.

The performance of Bangladesh power sector in last two decades fell short of expectation of our
citizen. High system losses in the sector, large amount of accounts receivable and inadequate tariff
have been affecting the financial viability of the utilities and attractiveness for investment. Acute
scarcity of resources hinders financing the huge cost required for the development of the sector.
Absence of clear organizational goals, adequate financial and commercial autonomy and lack of
adequate incentives resulted inefficiency in the utility management.

Power sector reform is required not only for performance improvement of the existing utilities but
also to cope up with the global change and to create appropriate environment for private sector
participation.


Reform Initiatives

The foremost priority in the reform agenda of the Government is to establish a legal frame-work
for enabling business transaction in the new environment. The roles of regulation and operation
would be segregated to evolving functional entities according to the structural needs of reformed
power sector; Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission will be responsible for regulation of the
sector. The Government shall, however, issue policy directives on matters concerning electricity
including measures necessary for the overall planning and coordination for the development of the
electricity sector.

Power sector reforms started in late '70s with the creation of REB. In respect of the reform
program following achievements have been made so far:


 Rural Electrification Board was created in 1977




                                                 39

 Rural electrification program has been successful :

      70 Nos. PBSs established
      Area coverage increased, so far 50,360 villages are electrified.
      Electricity Supplied to 7.3 million consumers out of country's 10.4 million consumers in
      2007.
      Significantly positive impact on poverty reduction and social benefits to the rural people.

 In early nineties, unbundling of the power sector as a part of reform started with the creation
  of DESA in 1991. However, DESA did not perform well.

 A high power Inter-ministerial Committee on "Power Sector Reform in Bangladesh" (PSRB) was
  constituted in 1993. The report of the committee was approved by the Government. The
  committee's recommendations included :

      Unbundling of the sector according to functional lines
      Corporatization of sector entities
      Establishment of an independent Regulatory Commission

  As a result of implementation of PSRB, the Power Grid Company of Bangladesh Limited (PGCB)
  and Dhaka Electric Supply Company Limited (DESCO) were created in 1996.

  Power Cell was created under the Ministry of Power, Energy & Mineral Resources in 1995 to
  facilitate power sector reforms and to promote private power development

  The National Energy Policy adopted in 1996 which recommended among others

      Sector unbundling
      Private sector participation
      Establishment of an Energy Regulatory Commission

 "Private Sector Power Generation Policy of Bangladesh" was adopted in 1996.

 The Government approved "Policy Guidelines for Small Power Plants (SPP) in Private Sector" in
  1998

 Government reconstituted board of directors of corporatized entities for good governance.
  Government discontinued the practice of appointing Secretary Power Division as chairman of
  the board and the companies formed board committees for Audit, Recruitment and promotion,
  and procurement to ensure transparency and accountability in the corporatized entities.

Reform Objectives

GOB issued its Vision and Policy Statement on Power Sector Reforms in
February, 2000, with the following objectives:

1.  Bringing the entire country under electricity service by the year 2020 in phases.

2.  Making the power sector financially viable and able to facilitate economic growth

3.  Increasing the sector's efficiency

4.  Introducing new corporate culture in the power sector entities



                                              40

5.    Improving the reliability and quality of electricity supply

6.    Using natural gas as the primary fuel for electricity generation

7.    Increasing private sector participation to mobilise finance.

8.    Ensuring reasonable and affordable price for electricity by pursuing least cost options.

9.    Promoting competition among various entities



Components of Reform

The principal components of the reform programme have been envisaged as follows:
1.      Segregation of power generation, transmission and distribution functions into separate
        services and creation of BPDB holding company as an apex body where generation,
        transmission and distribution operating companies will be the subsidiaries of the holding
        company.
2.      Corporatization and commercialisation of emerging power sector entities.
3.     Effective regulation under BERC for power and gas.
4.      Private sector participation and private-public partnership in power sector.
5.      Financial Restructuring and Recovery Plan for the sector.
6.      Introduction of cost reflective tariff for financial viability of the utilities and promoting
        efficient use of electricity.
7.      Development of Demand Side Management (DSM) including energy efficiency measures to
        conserve energy.
8.      Creation of appropriate framework and institution to facilitate the development of
        alternative/renewable energy resources.
9.      Utilization of captive power potential of the country through appropriate policy framework.
10.     Capacity building and HRD for sector entities and corporatized bodies.



GOB intends to implement the above programme by taking pragmatic steps through
nation-wide consensus of all stakeholders, which include GOB, existing electric
utilities, industries and consumers, labour unions, employees, Chambers of Commerce
and Industry, civil society etc.


Progress of Reform

Recently GOB initiated conversion of BPDB into a holding company including reshaping of the
whole industry. A brief account of progress in the reform of the power sector is given below:

Generation:

 Under the "Private Sector Power Generation Policy", new capacity of 1431 MW has so far been
   developed by Independent Power Producers (IPP's)

 Licenses have been issued to several Small Power Plants under the "Policy Guidelines for
   Small Power Plants (SPP) in Private Sector".

 Under the "Policy Guidelines for Power Purchase from Captive Power Plant", agreements
   signed between utilities and captive generators for 28 MW so far and already 10 MW
   connected to the grid.


                                                 41

 Ashuganj Power Station has been converted into a corporatized entity.

 Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh (EGCB) has been established to implement, own
   and operate the proposed 2x120 MW and 2x150 MW peaking power plants at Siddhirganj and
   360 MW combined cycle power plant at Haripur. EGCB will also own existing generation assets
   of siddhirgonj and Haripur power stations of BPDB.

 North West Power Generation Company (NWPGC) has been incorporated in 2007.

 Steps have been taken to install new power plants under various modes of financing in
   addition to GOB funding


Transmission:

 Power Grid Company of Bangladesh Limited (PGCB) was created in 1996. All the transmission
   assets (100%) including Load Dispatch Center (LDC) have been transferred from BPDB to
   PGCB.
 Government allowed PGCB to float tax free bonds to raise fund from local market.
 PGCB offloaded 25% share to public through Capital Market in 2006. The process of offloading
   another 15% of shares has been initiated.

Distribution:
 DESCO was established in 1996 and is now functioning in Mirpur, Gulshan, Baridhara, Tongi
   and Uttara area of Dhaka by taking over assets from DESA
 West Zone Power Distribution System of BPDB has been corporatized as WZPDC.
 North West Zone Power Distribution system of BPDB has been corporatized as NWZPDC.
 DPDC was incorporated in October 2006.
 Corporatization of South Zone and Central Zone Power Distribution system of BPDB is under
   process
 Steps have been taken to bring the people of remote areas of the country under electricity
   system through Remote Area Power Supply System (RAPSS)" programme
       Distributed generation with distribution franchise for a certain period
       Program to be implemented by the private sector
 SBU activities adopted in 24 distribution circles of BPDB and DESA
 For introduction of Performance Target Agreement (PTA) scheme, contract has been signed
   with 24 distribution circles of BPDB and DESA.
 DESCO offloaded 25% share to public through Capital Market in 2006. The process of
   offloading another 15% of shares has been initiated.

Renewable Energy Development:
 Renewable Energy program is being implemented by both public (REB, BPDB, LGED) and
   private sector.
 Government is in the process of establishment of Sustainable Energy Development Agency
   (SEDA) to coordinate and facilitate activities of agencies promoting renewable energy.
 More than 200,000 houses, shops and small business have been provided access to electricity
   using SHS. IDCOL has been playing leading role in expanding Solar Home System (SHS) in
   rural areas.
 A pilot biomass plant is in operation near Dhaka and a wind power plant has started operation
   in Kutubdia Island.


                                                42

Sector Regulation
 Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission Act was enacted in 2003. Bangladesh Energy
  Regulatory Commission (BERC) has been established and made functional to regulate the
  Electricity, Gas and Petroleum sector
      Licensing regulation for generation has been made by the BERC in 2006.
      BERC is in the process of preparing Electricity Transmission Regulation, 2008 and Electricity
      Distribution Regulation, 2008.

Tariff
      Power Pricing Framework has been approved by the Government.
      Rationalization of tariff (partial) has been made in 2006 and effective from March 2007.




                                                43

                    Road Map for Institutional Reform: 2008-2010

Introduction

The 3-year Road Map (2008-2010) including the time-bound action plan is envisaged in line with
PRSP for realization of the vision of reaching electricity to all by 2020. Six monthly rolling goals
for the next three years are also prepared (Annexure - A).

During this period, electricity demand is expected to grow at the rate of 8-10% per annum. As
such, the demand is expected to rise to about 6,608 MW by 2010. Therefore for reliable supply
of power, the generation capacity will be required to be raised to at least 8,000 MW which will
facilitate raising the per capita consumption to 172 KWh and access to electricity to 60%. Thus
about 2,800 MW of new generation capacity will be needed to ensure adequate supply of
electricity. Simultaneously, about 2200 circuit km (100 km 400 kV, 1500 km 230 kV and 600 km
132 kV) of transmission line and about 50,000 km of distribution line will have to be constructed
for evacuation and distribution of power. Together with institutional reform and prudent
investment program ensuring least cost solution can provide quantity and quality power to the
consumers at an affordable price for sustainable economic and social development of the country.
However, in order to redress the sufferings of the consumers due to acute power shortage in the
shortest possible time, the Government has, as an interim measure, contracted with private power
companies for generation and supply of electricity to BPDB on rental basis for 3 years. These
rental power plants (about 300 MW) are expected to be commissioned within 4 months of signing
of contract ie, by May 2008. It is expected that within next 3-4 years, the power plants planned
for implementation according to least cost plan will come on line, when these rental power plants
will not be required. In response to overall gas situation, particularly transmission and distribution
constraints new base load, small IPPs and rental power plants are being set up in and around
areas where reliable gas supply is available.

The primary objective of the 3-year institutional reform programme is to create an institutional
foundation on which to ramp, in a sustainable manner, the substantial investments needed for the
sector to properly support economic growth and reduce poverty. This will require the sector to be
restructured to improve its efficiency, transparency and overall governance, facilitate effective and
independent regulation, expand competition, and begin to improve the quality of electricity
services.

Experience gained from the reform attempts has been considered in preparing the road map.
Creation of DESA as a separate authority, without introducing new management & corporate
culture and without sufficient autonomy & incentive, did not yield good results. Again creation of
Ashuganj Power Station Company Ltd (APSCL) and WZPDC without sufficient preparatory works
and addressing governance & employee issues properly created mismanagement in the business.

Implementation of road map in future will be based on in-depth study. For example the outcome
of BPDB corporatization study will guide structured reform in power sector. Based on BPDB
corporatizetion study, DESA corporatization study, financial restructuring study, South Zone
distribution project study for making it a model distribution entity, O&M contracting for EGCB
study for model generation entity, the Road Map for reform and restructuring of Bangladesh
power sector will be updated on a six monthly basis for the next course of action.

The main outcomes being sought over the next 3-years is further unbundling of electricity supply
into an economically viable number of separate generation and distribution companies, and a
single transmission company. These operating companies will act as subsidiaries of BPDB holding
company. Technical co-ordination of power system operation will be enhanced through


                                               44

implementation of National Load Dispatch Center (NLDC) project linking generation and grid
substations. A strong planning and power trading department for bulk power management will be
organized under the BPDB holding company.

The indicative milestones for the institutional reforms of the power sector in the next 3 years are
summarized below:



A.     Generation:

       1.     Existing Generation:

              1.1.    All the existing power stations in the public sector will be converted into
                      profit centers for eventual conversion to a corporatized entity individually or
                      on cluster basis which will be retained by BPDB holding company.

              1.2.    All commercial issues related to asset transfer and valuation will be
                      completed.

              1.3.    The business and financial plans will be developed.

              1.4.    All works related to employee issues including payment of service benefits
                      will be completed as per guidelines provided in the Policy Statement on
                      power sector reforms. Employment of all employees to the corporatized
                      entities shall be governed by the latter's service rules.

              1.5.    All efforts will be undertaken by GOB so that the emerging entities can start
                      functioning commercially.

              1.6.    Special plans will be developed to enhance technical and managerial
                      efficiencies and establishing good governance.

              1.7.    Special attention will be given to Human Resources Development (HRD)
                      program.

              1.8.    To improve technical and management capability and to establish
                      accountability, special organizational activities like TQM will be introduced.

       2.     New Generation:

              New generation projects will be taken up to achieve the desired security of supply
              at generation level to be met at least cost and generation capacity will be sought
              through a mix of sources i.e. public, private, and public-private joint ventures.
              Employment of Private Sector resources in new generation will be encouraged.

              For public sector new generation, special attention will be given to good
              governance, efficient O&M and establishing commercial environment.

B.     Transmission:

       1. PGCB will continue to operate as a wheeler of electricity.

       2. Special attention will be given to Human Resources Development (HRD) program.




                                                45

    3. Demarcation of functional area of generation, transmission and distribution will be
        finalized and installation of system metering will be completed to establish commercial
        arrangement among the sector entities.


C. Distribution:

    It is realized that main problem lies in the distribution segment. Therefore the success of
    the reform programmes can not be sustained until commercial environment is established
    in this segment.

    C.1.    BPDB:

            1.      BPDB distribution segment will be converted into a number of distribution
                    companies under BPDB holding company. All works towards corporatization
                    of BPDB distribution will be completed.
            2.      All commercial issues related to asset transfer and valuation will be
                    completed.
            3.      Business and financial plans will be developed.
            4.      All works related to employee issues including payment of service benefits
                    will be completed as per guidelines provided in the Policy Statement on
                    power sector reforms. Employment of all employees to the corporatized
                    entities shall be governed by the latter's service rules.

            5.      All efforts will be undertaken to complete computerization of commercial
                    functions to boost revenue collection and establishing transparent
                    transaction.
            6.      Special attention will be given to Human Resources Development (HRD)
                    program.

    C.2     DESA/DPDC:

            1.      DPDC will be fully functional with employees recruited through a process
                    approved by the company.
            2.      All commercial issues related to asset transfer and valuation will be
                    completed.
            3.      Business and financial plans will be developed.
            4.      All works related to employee issues including payment of service benefits
                    will be completed as per guidelines provided in the Policy Statement on
                    power sector reforms. Employment of all employees to the corporatized
                    entities shall be governed by the latter's service rules.
            5.      All commercial functions will be computerized to boost revenue collection
                    and improve transparency.
            6.      Special attention will be given to Human Resources Development (HRD)
                    program.

    C.3     REB:

            1.      Steps will be taken to improve REB's performance based on reorganization
                    study.




                                             46

           2.      Steps will be taken to improve network expansion planning process using
                   advanced tools (software) for least cost option in line with GOB's vision to
                   provide access to electricity to people at an affordable cost.
D. Sector Regulation:


    The Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission Act was enacted in March 2003 and
    Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission has been made functional since April
    2004. The Commission has mandate to regulate the electricity, gas and petroleum sector.
    The Commission already issued `generation licensing regulation' in 2006. Government
    recently approved service regulations of BERC staff. The Commission will be fully functional
    by the year 2008, with appointment of qualified staffs pursuant to the approved BERC
    organogram.



E. Power Market Structure:

    At present BPDB is functioning as Single Buyer and it will continue functioning except for
    some direct power purchase from small power producers by the utility.                Multi
    buyer/Competitive pool may be adopted when the market becomes mature and stable.


F. Implementation and Monitoring Approach of Reform Program:

    Implementation of the reform program is a very complicated and difficult task and requires
    well-organized, integrated and comprehensive plan and actions. It also requires close co-
    ordination, interaction and strong commitment of the Government, and other stakeholders.

    A high level National Steering Committee has been formed. A Task Force has also
    been established and a Working Group has been formed in each utility to implement and
    monitor the power sector reform programs in a coordinated and comprehensive manner.




                                            47

                            Year wise Targets

Year 2008 (January to December)

1.  Study for conversion of BPDB into a holding company will be completed. The study
    will address corporate and organizational structure of proposed holding company,
    governance issues, relationship between holding company and subsidiaries, employee
    issues, institutional development and capacity building etc. Incorporation of BPDB
    holding company will be completed.

2.  Corporatization of DESA will be completed and efforts will be made to improve
    performance including collection of revenues. All works related to appointment of
    employees, payment of service benefits etc. will be completed. Employment of all
    employees of the corporatized entity shall be governed by the company's service
    rules. All assets from DESA will be transferred to DPDC.

3.  West Zone Power Distribution Company will be fully functional.

4.  Management and staff appointment of North West Zone Power Distribution Company
    will be completed. New organizational structure will be prepared and starts
    functioning with a well-prepared business plan.

5.  Study for institutional development of EGCB will be completed which includes
    addressing governance issues, preparation of business plan, drafting power purchase
    agreement (PPA) and Gas Supply Agreement (GSA) etc. O&M contractor will be
    appointed.

6.  South Zone Power Distribution Company (SZPDC) will be incorporated. Board of
    Directors and top management will be appointed. Procurement process for large
    customer metering will be completed and installation of meter, CT, PT etc will start.

7.  Central Zone Power Distribution Company (CZPDC) will be incorporated. Board of
    Directors will be constituted and top management will be appointed.

8.  Power Sector Financial Restructuring and Recovery plan will be implemented.

9.  Board of Directors for NWPGC will appointed. Qualified staffs will be recruited.

10. Installation of system metering for establishing commercial arrangement among the
    sector entities will start

11. `Generation support framework and financing strategy' will be approved.

12. Energy Policy incorporating renewable energy will be updated and approved by the
    Government

13. Study on REB's Institutional Development will start.

14. Service regulations and organogram of BERC are approved and all Commissioners
    appointed.




                                      48

Year 2009 (January to December)

1.  Board of Directors of BPDB holding company and top management will be
    appointed. All works related to employee issues including payment of service
    benefits will be completed. Organization of Holding Company will start.

2.  DPDC with new structure will be fully functional.

3.  North West Zone Power Distribution Company will be operational.

4.  Corporatization of SZPDC and CZPDC will be completed.

5.  Business plan for NWPGC will be prepared.

6.  Installation of system metering will be completed.

7.  Study on REB's Institutional Development will be completed.

8.  Corporatization of BPDB's remaining power plants into a number of generation
    companies under BPDB holding company will start.

9.  Establishment of an independent entity to act as Single Buyer will be examined.




Year 2010 (January to December)

1.  BPDB holding company with new structure will be fully functional.

2.  Corporatization of BPDB's distribution segment into a number of distribution
    companies under BPDB holding company will be completed.

3.  SZPDC and CZPDC will be fully functional.

4.  Corporatization of BPDB's remaining power plants into a number of generation
    companies under BPDB holding company will continue.

5.  An entity to act as a Single Buyer will be established.




                                    49

                                                                                   Annexure - A

       Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform


                                    From January to June 2008
No.          Outcome                           Actions                    Date      Responsibility
 1.   Conversion of BPDB as a       · Final Report by the Consultants.   June 2008    Power Division/
      Holding Company                                                                    BPDB

 2.   Corporatizetion of DESA       · Asset transferred to DPDC          June 2008    Power Division


 3.   West Zone Power               · Management Improvement             Continue        WZPDC
      Distribution Company

 4.   North West Zone Power         · Preparatory works to make          June 2008    BPDB /NWZPDC
      Distribution Company            NWZPDC functional

 5.   South Zone Power              · Legal status*                      June 2008    Power Division/
      Distribution Company                                                               BPDB

 6.   Central Zone Power            · Legal status                       June 2008    Power Division/
      Distribution Company                                                               BPDB

 7.   Institutional Development     · Draft GSA prepared                 June 2008         PC
      of EGCB                                                                            EGCB
                                                                                         BPDB
 8.   North West Power              · Appointment of Board of directors  June 2008    Power Division
      Generation Company              and top management

 9.   Implementation of             · Interim Report                     June 2008         PC
      Financial Restructuring
      Plan (FRP)                                                                        Utilities

10.   Installation of system        · Contract Signed                    May 2008          PC
      metering for establishing
      commercial arrangement
      among the sector entities
11.   Preparation of generation     · Approval                           May 2008     Power Division
      support framework and
      financing strategy
12.   REB's Institutional           · Issue RFP for the appointment of   April 2008      PC/REB
      Development                     the Consultant
                                    · Proposal submission                May 2008
                                    · Proposal evaluation completed      June 2008
13.   Indicative Performance        · Implementation of Performance     30 June            PC
      Improvement Target:             Target Achievement (PTA)            2008          Utilities
      - Dist. Loss (%): 14.15         Scheme
      - Collections (%): 98.00
      - CG Ratio ((%) : 85.00       · SBU activity
      - Arrears(eqv. months)

         BPDB- 2.25 month

         DESA- 3.00 month


·  SZPDC Incorporated on May 06, 2008




                                                     50

   Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform



                               From July to December 2008
No.         Outcome                         Actions                  Date     Responsibility
1.   Conversion of BPDB as a   · Legal status                       Dec 2008     Power Division/
     Holding Company                                                                 BPDB

2.   Dhaka Power Distribution  · Employee issues resolved           Dec 2008         DPDC/
     Company                     including service benefits                      Power Division
                               · Prepare new organizational
                                 structure
3.   West Zone Power           · Management Improvement             Continue        WZPDC
     Distribution Company

4.   North West Zone Power     · Prepare business plan              Dec 2008    BPDB /NWZPDC
     Distribution Company      ·  Prepare new organizational
                                 structure
5.   South Zone Power          · Appointment of Board of Directors  Dec 2008     Power Division/
     Distribution Company      · Top Management appointment                          BPDB
                               · Start     installation  of  large
                                 customer metering
6.   Central Zone Power        · Appointment of Board of Directors  Dec 2008     Power Division/
     Distribution Company      · Top Management appointment                          BPDB

7.   Institutional Development · Final Report                       Nov. 2008          PC
     of EGCB                   · O&M contractor on board            Dec 2008         EGCB
                                                                                     BPDB
8.   North West Power          · Appointment of staff               Dec 2008   Power Division/BPDB
     Generation Company

9.   Implementation of         · Final Report                       Dec 2008          PC
     Financial Restructuring
     Plan (FRP)                                                                    Utilities

10.  Installation of system    · Installation of System Meter       Nov. 2008    PC/PGCB/BPDB
     metering for establishing   starts
     commercial arrangement
     among the sector entities
11.  Energy Policy Update      · Approved by GOB                    Dec 2008     Power Division/
                                                                                 Energy Division
12.  REB's Institutional       · Consultant on board                Sep 2008        PC/REB
     Development
13.  Indicative                · Implementation of Performance      31 Dec            PC
     Performance                 Target Achievement (PTA)
                                 Scheme                              2008          Utilities
     Improvement
     Target:                   · SBU activity
     - Dist. Loss (%): 13.50
     - Collections (%): 98.50
     - CG Ratio ((%) : 86.00
     - Arrears(eqv. month)
        BPDB- 2.10 month

        DPDC- 2.90 month




                                                  51

     Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform



                              From January to June 2009
No.        Outcome                         Actions                   Date     Responsibility
1.  Conversion of BPDB as a   · Formation of Board of Directors     June 2009   Power Division/
    Holding Company             and appointment of Top                              BPDB
                                Management
                              · Employee issues resolved
                                including service benefit
2.  Dhaka Power Distribution  · Management improvement              Continue       DPDC/
    Company                                                                     Power Division

3.  North West Zone Power     · Management improvement              Continue    BPDB /NWZPDC
    Distribution Company

4.  South Zone Power          · Transfer of asset from BPDB         June 2009   Power Division/
    Distribution Company      · Resolve       employee      issues  June 2009     BPDB/PC
                                including service benefits
                              · Appoint Large Customer Metering    March 2009
                                Consultant
5.  Central Zone Power        · Transfer of asset from BPDB         Dec 2008    Power Division/
    Distribution Company      · Resolve       employee      issues                  BPDB
                                including service benefits
6.  North West Power          · Prepare business plan               June 2009     NWZPGC
    Generation Company

7.  Implementation of         · Implementation         of      the  Continue         PC
    Financial Restructuring     recommendations of the study in
    Plan (FRP)                  the utilities                                     Utilities

8.  Installation of system    · Installation of System Meter        Continue    PC/PGCB/BPDB
    metering for establishing
    commercial arrangement
    among the sector entities
9.  REB's Institutional       · Study completed                     June 2009      PC/REB
    Development
10. Indicative                · Implementation of Performance      30 June           PC
    Performance                 Target Achievement (PTA)
                                Scheme                               2009         Utilities
    Improvement
    Target:                  · SBU activity
    - Dist. Loss (%): 13.00
    - Collections (%): 99.00
    - CG Ratio ((%) : 87.00
    - Arrears(eqv. months)

      BPDB- 2.00 month

      DPDC- 2.75 month




                                                52

     Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform


                              From July to December 2009
No.       Outcome                        Actions                   Date       Responsibility
1.  Conversion of BPDB as a  ·  Organization of holding        September 2009       BPDB/
    Holding Company             company according to                           Holding Company

                                new structure
                                (suggested by the
                                study) starts
2.  North West Zone Power    ·  Management Improvement            Continue         NWZPDC
    Distribution Company

3.  South Zone Power         ·  Start functioning               July 01, 2009   PC/BPDB/SZPDC
    Distribution Company     ·  Installation of Large Customer
                                Metering completed              August 2009
4.  Central Zone Power       ·  Starts functioning              July 01, 2009    BPDB/CZPDC
    Distribution Company

5.  North West Power         ·  Management Improvement            Continue         NWZPGC
    Generation Company

6.  Installation of system   ·  Installation of System Meter     Nov. 2009      PC/PGCB/BPDB
    metering for establishing   completed
    commercial arrangement
    among the sector
    entities
7.  REB's Institutional      ·  Implementation of the             Continue           REB
    Development                 recommendations of the study

8.  Corporatization of       ·  Preparatory works completed      Dec 2009           BPDB/
    remaining BPDB's                                                            Power Division
    generation units
9.  Establishment of         ·  Review of Power Market           Dec 2009           BPDB/
    Independent Single       ·  Preparatory works completed                     Power Division
    Buyer

10. Indicative               ·  Implementation of Performance        31              PC
    Performance                 Target Achievement (PTA)
                                Scheme                          December          Utilities
    Improvement                                                    2009
    Target:                  · SBU activity
    - Dist. Loss (%): 12.50
    - Collections (%):
    99.00
    - CG Ratio ((%) : 88.00
    - Arrears(eqv. months)

      BPDB- 2.00 month

      DPDC- 2.65 month




                                                 53

     Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform


                             From January to June 2010
No.        Outcome                   Actions              Date     Responsibility
1.  Conversion of BPDB      · Re-organization           June 2010      BPDB
    as a Holding               completed                              Holding
    Company                                                           Company
2.  South Zone Power        · Prepare investment plan  March 2010      SZPDC
    Distribution Company    · Improve customer service   Continue
3.  Central Zone Power      · Prepare investment plan  March 2010      CZPDC
    Distribution Company    · Improve customer service   Continue

4.  Corporatization of      · Implementation starts     June 2010   Power Division/
    remaining BPDB's                                                   BPDB
    generation units                                                  Holding
                                                                      Company
5.  Establishment of        · Implementation starts     June 2010   Power Division/
    Independent Single                                                 BPDB
    Buyer                                                             Holding
                                                                      Company
6.  Indicative              · Implementation of        30 June 2010      PC
    Performance                Performance Target                     Utilities
    Improvement                Achievement (PTA)
    Target:                    Scheme
    - Dist. Loss (%): 12.25
    - Collections (%): 99.00· SBU activity
    - CG Ratio ((%) : 89.00
    - Arrears(eqv. months)

      BPDB- 2.00 month

      DPDC - 2.60 month




                                          54

     Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform


                            From July to December 2010
No.         Outcome                  Actions              Date     Responsibility
1.  Conversion of BPDB as    · Improve co-ordination    Continue      BPDB
    a Holding Company          among the subsidiaries                 Holding
                                                                     Company
2.  South Zone Power         · Management               Continue      SZPDC
    Distribution Company       Improvement

3.  Central Zone Power       · Management               Continue      CZPDC
    Distribution Company       Improvement

4.  Corporatization of       · Implementation continue  Dec 2010   Power Division/
    remaining BPDB's                                                  BPDB
    generation units                                                  Holding
                                                                     Company
5.  Establishment of         · Implementation           Dec 2010   Power Division/
    Independent Single         complete                               BPDB
    Buyer                                                             Holding
                                                                     Company
6.  Indicative               · Implementation of       31 Dec 2010      PC
    Performance                Performance Target                     Utilities
    Improvement                Achievement (PTA)
    Target:                    Scheme
    - Dist. Loss (%): 12.00
    - Collections (%): 99.00 · SBU activity
    - CG Ratio ((%) : 90.00
    - Arrears(eqv. months)

      BPDB- 2.00 month

      DPDC - 2.50 month




                                          55

                   ANNEX 4: INVESTMENT CLIMATE AND THE POWER SECTOR

The second Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) for Bangladesh was recently completed.                         The ICA
identified power and corruption as the two biggest concerns of the private sector. The information below
has been extracted from the ICA.

1.       Electricity supply has struggled to keep up with demand spurred by solid economic growth. The
private productive sector reports significant losses as a result of power scarcity. The issue is particularly
detrimental to smaller businesses that cannot afford generators. Manufacturing firms blame low capacity
utilization primarily on scarce power.4 Estimates put the cost of electricity shortages to Bangladesh at as
much as 2 percentage points of annual GDP growth. As can be seen in the following table, deteriorating
power supply is causing increasingly problems including the perception of dramatic increases in lost
production and sales, when the survey results of the most recent Investment Climate Assessment are
compared to the previous one dating from 2002.


        ELECTRICITY--Comparing ICA survey results                          2002                2007
        Value lost to electrical outages (% of sales)                      2.9%               12.3%
        Electricity supply a "major or severe" obstacle (% of firms)       71.7%              76.6%


2.       The electricity sector in Bangladesh is characterized by a severe shortfall in generation capacity. Per
capita electricity generation in Bangladesh has been increasing over the years (from 143 KWh in 2004 to
155 in 2007, yet has remained among the lowest levels of power generated in the world. Useable capacity is
only about 4,400 MW, due to de-rating (the highest generation achieved so far has been 4,290 MW). But
peak demand consistently exceeds 5,000 MW, with the overall result of pervasive power cuts and surges.
Estimate peak load shedding, in MW, doubled from 2004 to 2005, then doubled again in 2006; in 2007-08,
load management measures combined with renewed attention to operational and maintenance issues have
helped some, and there has been some decline in load shedding over the course of the last year. Even so,
even in low demand seasons, load shedding is usually not less than 300 MW, and during peak hours in the
warmer months, is routinely 1,000 MW and higher. Power outages (and even more harmfully for business:
power surges) are an important constraint on growth (78.4% of firms consider electricity a major or severe
obstacle to business).

3.       The sector is plagued by considerable shortcomings in transmission and distribution. Power
generation in the country is dependent on 5 major power plants. Fault in any of the large power plants has a
major impact on the entire grid. Less than half of households in Bangladesh have access to electricity.5 In
rural areas, where grid-supplied power is largely absent, access is even more limited. Access is mostly rising
in rural areas (from 19% to 31% in 2000 to 2005, as compared to an urban increase from 80% to 83% in the
same period), with spotty quality and reliability of the service, and a heavy cost of expansion imposed on the
national grid in terms of equipment overload and outages. The situation is particularly dire in the West Zone
(Khulna, Rajshahi, Barisal).6



4On average, firms only use 80% of their capacity. Metropolitan firms point to electricity as the major reason for
capacity underutilization, followed by working capital financing shortages.
5BBS reports that 44% of households had electricity in 2005, up from 31% in 2000, but effective access rates are
lower.
6Peak demand in the West Zone is about 600 MW, of which the region can only generate around 90 MW reliably, and
a maximum of 200 MW. The national grid is unable to supply more than 200 MW of additional power to the West
Zone.


                                                         56

4.       The relationship between local electricity officials and companies is wrought with graft, as
businesses vie to secure much needed power. New investment in the power sector has been hampered by
rent-seeking, and poorly transparent bidding procedures, so there has been no substantive quality addition to
the grid in the past five years.

5.       Tariffs, set at below electricity cost, are rarely increased in Bangladesh. The last tariff hike in March
2007 (the first one in four years), increased urban electricity prices by 5%, but left the `lifeline' or first tariff
block of 100 kWh unaltered, and thus did little to fundamentally improve sector finances. In fact, electricity
has been getting cheaper in real terms.

6.       Pervasive power outages rob the country of 2 percentage points of national growth. Virtually all
firms experienced power outages (98% in metropolitan and 99% in non-metropolitan areas). Those very few
who did not report outages were not connected to the public grid either because they relied fully on
generators or did not require electricity (brick fields). On average each metropolitan firm faced 98.5 power
outages a month, or more than three a day, for about an hour each. Services fared particularly badly with
119.5 outages per month. Small firms were hard hit as well (103.5 times versus 86.1 for large firms). The
total annual incidence of power outages comes to 1105 hours (comparable to the Doing Business estimate of
1443).

7.       Problems with electricity supply are also a major concern for non-metropolitan enterprises and
ranked among the top five major/severe constraints identified by non-metropolitan enterprises. 73% of non-
metropolitan non-farm enterprises have an electricity connection, but connectivity varies considerably by
location with the highest rates in peri-urban areas (88%), followed by small-towns (77%) and village
enterprises (66%). Larger non-metropolitan enterprises (i.e. firms with 10 or more workers) are significantly
more likely to identify electricity a major severe constraint compared to those with less than 10 workers
(53% versus 17%) and manufacturing firms are affected disproportionately. 25% of enterprises without
electricity are not connected because there is no supply in their location, 32% complained about high
connection costs and a similar proportion had no need for electricity.7

8.       Among enterprises that are connected, power outages are universal (99% of connected enterprises in
non-metropolitan areas reported outages). Reported hours of outages are higher in peri-urban areas (median
annual outages of 728 hours) compared small-town and villages (both with median annual outages of 546
hours) and outages are particularly frequent in the winter months. While the duration of outages is shorter
than in major cities, unlike their metropolitan counterparts few non-metropolitan firms have access to
generators. Only 18% of peri-urban, 9% of village and 5% of small-town enterprises reported using power
from a generator during outages.

9.       Firms in metropolitan areas estimate that they lost 11.7% of sales value due to electricity outages, up
from 3.4% in 2002. Losses in non-metropolitan areas are lower with firms reporting losses of 3% of their
sales due to outages. The heavy reliance on generators in Bangladesh means that the reported losses
seriously understate the true costs of the poorly performing electricity grid. Smaller firms were particularly
vulnerable (losing 13.1% of sales value as compared to 8.4% for large firms), and were those in Dhaka
(12.4% as opposed to 7.7% in Chittagong, for example). Services sales were less sensitive to electricity
outages by the nature of the business. Sectors with critical reliance on power such as garments, chemicals
and pharmaceuticals use generators, if they can afford them. Less successful industries with less access to
investment cash were the hardest hit by their dependence on electricity, including textiles, leather, and light
engineering.

10.      Power unreliability has caused a veritable boom in generator sales in the past three years. The
median firm owns a generator, though the median small firm does not (28.2% of small firms, 61.9% of


7Only 9% of the mahallas/villages surveyed as part of the non-metropolitan sample were not electrified. 25% of
locations with electricity have only been electrified since 1995.


                                                          57

medium firms and 91.4% of large firms own a generator). Over three quarters of garments and chemicals /
pharmaceutical companies have one, though less than half in other industries do. Firms estimate they have to
rely on their own generators for about 28% of the electricity consumed. Generators represent a considerable
investment, at 5.3% of a firm's total fixed assets at book value on average. The total power capacity of
captive generation is reported to be around 2,000 MW, or about half of the public electricity production in
the country. In an industry with economies of scale, this is inefficient. In this survey, the average reported
cost per kW/h for electricity generation was Tk 7.7 (net of set-up costs), which is above public grid prices of
Tk 3.5, and the Bangladesh Growth and Export Competitiveness Report (World Bank 2005) puts the cost
even higher (at up to 2.5 times public prices). Smaller firms report even higher costs of Tk 8.1. The majority
of firms use diesel generators. Only very large companies are able to afford gas-fired generators.




                                                   58

                          ANNEX 5: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE (includes country map)
                                      Bangladesh at a glance                                                                              12/5/07



POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                        South         Low-
                                                        Bangladesh         Asia       income      Development diamond*

2007
Population, mid-year (millions)                                146.9      1,470         2,353
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                               510         684         580                     Life expectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                 74.5     1,005         1,364

Average annual growth, 2001-07

Population (%)                                                    1.9        1.7          1.9
Labor force (%)                                                   2.1        2.1          2.3     GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                                  per                                    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 2001-07)                                             capita                              enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)               ..          ..          ..
Urban population (% of total population)                          26          29          31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                  64          63          59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                          54          66          80
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                        48          45          39            Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)              74          84          75
Literacy (% of population age 15+)                                41          60          62
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)            109         110         104                      Bangladesh

   Male                                                          107         116         110                       Low-income group
   Female                                                        111         105          99

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                     1987       1997      2006          2007
                                                                                                   Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                   23.8        42.3       61.9         67.7
Gross capital formation/GDP                          16.0        20.7       24.7         24.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP                     5.2        12.0       19.0         22.0                         Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            9.1        15.9       20.2         20.5
Gross national savings/GDP                           16.1        21.6       27.7         29.1

Current account balance/GDP                          -4.1        -2.0        1.3          1.4     Domestic                           Capital
Interest payments/GDP                                 0.8         0.4        0.4            ..    savings                            formation
Total debt/GDP                                       33.9        36.2       30.6         30.3
Total debt service/exports                           22.9        10.3        4.8          3.5
Present value of debt/GDP                                ..         ..          ..          ..
Present value of debt/exports                            ..         ..          ..          ..
                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                        1987-97   1997-07       2006      2007       2007-11
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         4.4       5.6         6.6        6.5          6.3                      Bangladesh
GDP per capita                              2.1       3.6         4.8        4.6          4.5                       Low-income group
Exports of goods and services              12.8      11.2        25.8       27.0         11.6



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     1987       1997      2006          2007      Growth of capital and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
                                                                                                  15
Agriculture                                          32.4        25.8       19.6         18.9
Industry                                             20.8        25.1       27.9         28.5     10

  Manufacturing                                      13.3        15.6       17.2         17.9     5
Services                                             46.8        49.1       52.5         52.6
                                                                                                  0
Household final consumption expenditure              86.6        80.9       76.1         77.3               02    03     04     05    06     07
General gov't final consumption expenditure           4.3         4.4        5.5          5.6
                                                                                                                     GCF             GDP
Imports of goods and services                        12.1        18.0       25.2         28.9


                                                  1987-97   1997-07       2006          2007      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                           2.5         3.4        4.9          3.2     30

Industry                                              6.8         7.4        9.7          9.5     20

  Manufacturing                                       7.0         6.9       10.8         11.2     10
Services                                              3.9         5.7        6.4          6.7      0
                                                                                                            02     03    04     05    06     07
Household final consumption expenditure               3.2         3.9        4.6          5.6    -10

General gov't final consumption expenditure           4.1         8.6        6.0          6.4    -20
Gross capital formation                               7.1         8.4        8.3          7.2                      Exports           Imports
Imports of goods and services                         8.3         8.0       18.2         23.6


Note: 2007 data are preliminary estimates. Group data are for 2005.

* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
   be incomplete.




                                                                      59

                                                                                                                   Bangladesh

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              1987    1997    2006    2007    Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                    8

Consumer prices                                   ..    2.5     7.2     7.2   6

Implicit GDP deflator                         10.9      3.1     5.2     5.6   4

Government finance                                                            2

(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                           0
Current revenue                                 8.6     9.2    10.7    10.6              02      03     04        05      06      07
Current budget balance                          2.9     2.3     2.2     1.5                      GDP deflator            CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        -3.9    -4.3    -3.3    -3.1


TRADE
                                              1987    1997    2006    2007    Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           1,074   4,334  10,412 12,053    20,000
 Raw jute                                      104      116     148     147
 Leather and leather products                  135      222     257     266   15,000

 Manufactures                                  669    3,637  9,535  11,118
Total imports (cif)                           2,620   6,447  13,301 15,511    10,000

 Food                                          413      184   1,372   1,918
                                                                               5,000
 Fuel and energy                               230      515  2,004    2,233
 Capital goods                                 856    1,937  1,458    1,929        0
                                                                                         01    02    03     04     05    06     07
Export price index (2000=100)                    50      86     122     132
Import price index (2000=100)                    51      84     141     153                    Exports            Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                        97     102      87      86


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                              1987    1997    2006    2007    Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                1,301    4,991  11,752 13,537     2

Imports of goods and services                2,876    7,656  15,664 18,256
Resource balance                             -1,576  -2,665  -3,912  -4,719    1


Net income                                    -122    -107    -702    -883     0
Net current transfers                          731    1,907  5,438    6,554         01     02     03     04      05     06     07
                                                                              -1
Current account balance                       -966    -865     824      952
                                                                              -2
Financing items (net)                         1,169     696   -486      360
Changes in net reserves                       -203      169   -338   -1,312   -3

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..  1,671   2,296   3,638
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              30.6    42.7    67.2     69.1


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                              1986    1996    2005    2006    Composition of 2006 debt (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          8,062  15,341  18,928 20,521
  IBRD                                           61      46       0       0
                                                                                                 G: 1,178
  IDA                                         2,450   5,713  8,688    9,297                F: 502

Total debt service                             448      672     805     685
                                                                                    E: 3,380
  IBRD                                            5       8       0       0
  IDA                                            28      92     223     242                                              B: 9,297

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                              553      596     671     490
  Official creditors                           843      548     338     553
  Private creditors                              55     -30     -14     -24
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)         2      14     802     697          D: 5,688

  Portfolio equity (net inflows)                  0   -117       20      31                                  C: 476

World Bank program
  Commitments                                     ..    239     600     462    A - IBRD                             E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                                337      279     547     398    B - IDA      D - Other multilateral  F - Private
  Principal repayments                            8      54     153     172    C - IMF                              G - Short-term
  Net flows                                    330      225     394     226
  Interest payments                              25      45      70      70
  Net transfers                                305      180     325     155


Development Economics                                                                                                       12/5/07




                                                           60

Map Section


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33368R
               To Gangtok
    88ºE                                                  89ºE                                BHUTAN                                    90ºE                                                                91ºE                                 BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                      Dispur
                                    PanchagarPanchagar                                                                                                                                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL

 To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
Patna                 PANCHAGAR
                          ANCHAGAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                  BANGLADESH
                                                                           LALMONIRHA                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS
 26ºN        ThakurgaonThakurgaon                NILPHAMARINILPHAMARI                                                                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS
         THAKURGAONTHAKURGAON                         NilphamariNilphamari LALMONIRHAT        LalmonirhatLalmonirhat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                     KurigramKurigram
                                                                    RangpurRangpur                                                                                                                                                                                    DIVISION BOUNDARIES
   To                                                                                               KURIGRAMKURIGRAM
 Katihar                              Dinajpur
                                      Dinajpur                       RANGPURRANGPUR                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                 DINAJPURDINAJPUR                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                         Goalpara                                                     I N D I A
    To
  Katihar                                                                                Gaibandha
                                                                                         Gaibandha                                                                                                                                                    To             92ºE                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dispur
                                                                                         GAIBANDHAGAIBANDHA                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dispur


                                                          JOYPURHA
                                                          JOYPURHAT
                                                                                                                                          SERPURSERPUR
                                                            Joypurhat
                                                            Joypurhat                                                                                                                                             SunamganjSunamganj
 25ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SYLHETSYLHET                                                   25ºN
                                   NAOGAONNAOGAON                                                                                          SerpurSerpur
                                                                                                                                                                                NETROKONANETROKONA                           SUNAMGANJSUNAMGANJ      Sylhet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sylhet
                                   Naogaon
                                   Naogaon                                                BOGRABOGRA                    JamalpurJamalpur
                                                                                           BograBogra
                                    R A J S H A H I                                                                             JAMALPURJAMALPUR                                         NetrokonaNetrokona
                                                                                                                                                                MymensinghMymensingh                                                      S Y L H E T
        NOWABGANJNOWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Silchar
                                                                                                                                                              MYMENSINGHMYMENSINGH
                  NowabganjNowabganj
                                 RAJSHAHIRAJSHAHI                                                           JJamamun
                                                                                                                   naa                                      D H A K A                                 KishorganjKishorganj                           MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Moulvi Bazar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Moulvi Bazar
             Ganges                RajshahiRajshahi                                            Serajganj
                                                                                               Serajganj
                                                                 Natore
                                                                 Natore                                                                                                                                                          HABIGANJHABIGANJ
                                                                                              SERAJGANJSERAJGANJ                                                                                    KISHORGANJKISHORGANJ
                                                           NATORENATORE                                                                   TANGAIL
                                                                                                                                          ANGAIL

                                                                                                                                        Tangail
                                                                                                                                        angail                                                                                   HabiganjHabiganj


                                                                                  PABNA ABNA                                                                              GAZIPURGAZIPUR

                                                                                 PabnaPabna                                                                                             NARSINGDINARSINGDI
 24ºN                                                                                                                                                                 GazipurGazipur                                                                                                                                            24ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                        NarsingdiNarsingdi
   I N D I A                                          KUSHTIAKUSHTIA      KushtiaKushtia                                 ManikanjManikanj           DHAKADHAKA                                            MegBRAHMANBRAHMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                            hna                                                                              I N D I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BrahmanbariaBrahmanbaria


                                     MeherpurMeherpur                                                                                                                                                          BARIABARIA
                                                                                                                  RajbariRajbariMANIKGANJMANIKGANJ
                      MEHERPURMEHERPUR                                                                                                                                        NARAYNGANJNARAYNGANJ
                                                   ChuadangaChuadanga                         RAJBARIRAJBARI                                       DHAKADHAKA                   NaraynganjNaraynganj

                                     CHUADANGACHUADANGA                                                                          FaridpurFaridpur                                                   COMILLACOMILLA
                                                                            JhenaidahJhenaidah
                                                                                         MaguraMagura                                                       MUNSHIGANJMUNSHIGANJMunshiganjMunshiganj
                                                         JHENAIDAHJHENAIDAH                                            FARIDPUR
                                                                                                                        ARIDPUR
                                                                                        MAGURAMAGURA                                                         Ganges                                           ComillaComilla                                                RI
 To                                                                                                                                                           SARIATPURSARIATPUR
Calcutta                                                                                                                                                                                CHANDPURCHANDPUR
                                                                                                                                                                 SariatpurSariatpur
                                                           JessoreJessore                       NarailNarail                                                MadaripurMadaripur       ChandpurChandpur
                                                                                               NARAILNARAIL                               MADARIPURMADARIPUR
                                                                    JESSOREJESSORE                                       GOPALGANJGOPALGANJ                                                                                                                       KHAGRACHHARIKHAGRACHHAKhagrachhariKhagrachhari
 23ºN                                                       K H U L N A                                                         GopalganjGopalganj                                                                                   FeniFeni                                                                                   23ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                          LUXMIPURLUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FENIFENI
                                                                                                     Khulna
                                                                                                     Khulna                                                 BARISALBARISAL                  LuxmipurLuxmipur NOAKHALINOAKHALI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                NoakhaliNoakhali                                                           RANGAMATIRANGAMATI
                                                                 SatkhiraSatkhira       KHULNAKHULNA                                    PEROJPURPEROJPUR              Barisal
                                                                                                                                                                      Barisal           BholaBhola                C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                                                     BagerhatBagerhat                   JhalukathiJhalukathi
  To                                                      SATKHIRASATKHIRA                                                                        JHALUKATHIJHALUKATHI                                                                                            RangamatiRangamati                            Kaptai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kaptai
Calcutta                                                                                                    BAGERHA
                                                                                                            BAGERHAT                      PerojpurPerojpur                                                                                                                                        LakeLake
                                                                                                                                            B A R I S A L                                                                                         CHITTAGONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHITTAGONG

                                                                                                                                                                 PatuakhaliPatuakhali     BHOLABHOLA

                                                                                                     e            l      t      a                               PATUAKHALI
                                                                                                                                                                      TUAKHALI                                                               ChittagongChittagong
                                                                                                                                                   BargunaBarguna
                                 G  a    n            g    e         s                    D
                                                                                                                                          BARGUNABARGUNA                                                                                                                                        BandarbanBandarban


 22ºN                                                                                                                                                                                                          s                                                                                Mt. Mowdok                      22ºN

                                                                                          b    a     n         s                                                                                     g      e                                                                                                    (957 m)

                                                                          d   a         r                                                                                                a        n

                                                      S  u       n                                                                                            t h         e        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BANDARBANBANDARBAN
                                                                                                                                          o       f                                                                                                               COX'SCOX'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BAZARBAZAR
                                                                                        M      o     u        t       h   s

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cox's Bazar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cox's Bazar
                0 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                              B a y o f B e n g a l
                0         10       20            30     40       50 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MYANMAR
        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 21ºN   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21ºN
        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                       89ºE                                                                             90ºE                                                                  91ºE                                                       92ºE                                           Sittwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARCH 2008

