                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001098




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-44360)



                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 73.7 MILLION
                       (US$ 120 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                       FOR A

                  POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY



                               September 25, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
South Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective: March 2009)

              Currency Unit        =      Taka
                    Tk 1.00        =      US$ 0.0146
                  US$ 1.00         =      Tk 68.30

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1      to     June 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACC     Anti-Corruption Commission
ADB     Asian Development Bank
AL      Awami League
BERC    Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission
BNP     Bangladesh Nationalist Party
BPDB    Bangladesh Power Development Board
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CTG     Caretaker Government
DPC     Development Policy Credit
EGCB    Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh
FRP     Financial Restructuring Plan
GOB     Government of Bangladesh
ICA     Investment Climate Assessment
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
M&E     Monitoring & Evaluation
MOF     Ministry of Finance
PBS     Palli Bidyut Samities or Rural Electric Cooperatives
PDO     Project Development Objective
PGCB    Power Grid Company of Bangladesh
PSDTA   Power Sector Development Technical Assistance
REB     Rural Electrification Board
SZPDC   South Zone Distribution Company
TSC     Transitional Support Credit



                   Vice President:      Isabel M. Guerrero
                 Country Director:      Robert Floyd
                  Sector Manager:       Salman Zaheer
                Task Team Leader:       Alan Townsend
                 ICR Team Leader        Mohua Mukherjee
                                            BANGLADESH
                                     Power Sector Development Policy


                                                      CONTENTS


 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 12 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21 
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26 
Annex 1: Three Year Road Map for Power Sector Reform ......................................... 27 
Annex 2: Summary Macroeconomic Indicators for Bangladesh FY02-FY09 ............ 50 
Annex 3: Summary of Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)'s Finances .. 51 
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 52 
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 53 
MAP .............................................................................................................................. 57 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Bangladesh Power
Country:                Bangladesh              Program Name:             Sector Development
                                                                          Policy Credit
Program ID:             P107797                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-44360
ICR Date:               09/30/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          BANGLADESH
Original Total
                        XDR 73.7M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 73.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 73.7M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
 Ministry of Power, Energy, and Mineral Resources
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/08/2008     Effectiveness:                              06/18/2008
Appraisal:            05/08/2008     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/17/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2009       03/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:             Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                            Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                             None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                          Quality of
                        No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                               100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                 17                  17
Infrastructure services for private sector development               17                  17
Other public sector governance                                       33                  33
Regulation and competition policy                                    17                  17
Rural services and infrastructure                                    16                  16

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                 Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Robert L. Floyd                    Xian Zhu
Sector Manager:            Salman Zaheer                      Salman Zaheer
Program Team Leader:       Alan F. Townsend                   Alan F. Townsend
ICR Team Leader:           Mohua Mukherjee
ICR Primary Author:        Mohua Mukherjee
                           Zubair K.M. Sadeque


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 This single tranche development policy credit supports a subset of the Government's
program of power sector reform. The policy actions supported by the Credit cover the
areas of: (i) financial stability and restructuring, (ii) private investment in generation,
(iii) regulatory reform and institutional strengthening, (iv) corporate governance of state-


                                                ii
owned enterprises in the sector, and (v) transparent and accountable commercialization of
energy services, and (vi) rural electrification strategy and institutional development. The
development objective is the enhancement of governance and accountability, and of
financial stability, in the sector leading to better and more sustainable service provision.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target        Formally   Actual Value
                                          Values (from           Revised    Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                            approval             Target    Completion or
                                          documents)             Values    Target Years


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                          Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                       Revised
                                            approval                        Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                          documents)                        Target Years



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            iii
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Political Backdrop at Appraisal

The Power Development Policy Credit was prepared and processed during a transition
period when there was a Caretaker Government (CTG) in Bangladesh. There was a
national election in December 2008, about six months after the credit was declared
effective and fully disbursed in June 2008. Awami league (AL), one of the two main
political parties in Bangladesh won the election by a landslide and has formed a new
Government beginning January 2009. The change in Government has, however, not
materially affected the outcome of the operation since the new Awami League
Government has largely continued with the policies initiated by the CTG.

Successive governments have accorded high priority to improving performance of the
power sector in Bangladesh, which has not kept up with the country's increasing demand
for electricity due to economic growth and population growth. It has become clear to
government and to the Bank that investment alone will not be sufficient to bring about
the required performance, and that the two most pressing institutional issues, of sector
governance, and sector finances, must be addressed through a determined effort to
reform sector policy. The Government of Bangladesh (GoB) therefore articulated a
power sector reform strategy addressing the two long-standing issues of governance and
sector finances, which was updated in 2007/2008 and forms the basis of the support
provided under this operation. The Bank began discussing policy support in mid-2007,
with the transitional Caretaker Government (CTG) in power at that time. The Bank opted
for a single tranche DPC operation taking into account continuity in sector policy
articulated by governments since 1996 and the associated importance of highlighting
sector governance, while also recognizing the temporary nature of the CTG. The latest
version of that re-confirmation of policy continuity, the rolling "3 Year Reform Road
Map," was indeed an implementation commitment and tracking tool that had been
developed by GoB in 2007. Apart from reconfirming the importance of institutional
backdrop for investments, it also recognized that the key issue in power sector reform
was not the quality of the policy selections per se, but rather the actual implementation of
these policies1.

There was naturally some uncertainty in terms of continuity or ownership of the DPC
reforms by the successors to CTG. However, given (i) the state of the sector and the
critical need for high-impact reforms, combined with (ii) the CTG's agreement to initiate
the reforms, the Bank judged that the opportunity to support CTG on critical,
governance-related, components of overall reform program was a risk worth taking.
Furthermore, the risk of reversal of the reforms by an incoming government was judged
to be low, based on historical precedence.



1
    The Reform Road Map discussed with the Bank during preparation of the DPC is attached in Annex 1.



                                                    1
Subsequent events have borne out this assessment. All of the reforms are still in place
and remain under implementation by the new administration, albeit at a slower
pace than was originally envisaged, as the new government sets its priorities and
organizes itself. There is a delay of up to one year in some of the expected outcomes, for
reasons mostly related to the reduced pace of implementation in the months preceding
elections in December 2008. However, despite delays, all of the actions are currently
making progress.

Macroeconomic and Sectoral Context

The new administration in 2007 inherited a relatively sound macroeconomic legacy, but
found a weak and poorly performing power sector, which was financially unsustainable
and riddled with governance problems. Previous procurement practices for purchase of
power generation capacity were a particularly big problem, as through most of the years
of the current decade, there was really no successful procurement of power, whether
publicly or privately financed. The only deals that did get done tended to be of
technology that was not least cost; wound up costing much more than they should have;
took a long time to construct; and were generally financed with expensive supplier credit
(often the only credit available to the country without conditions for sector reform).
Subsequently, it has also become evident that most of this capacity is very unreliable.
This had a seriously detrimental effect on sector performance, because generation is the
highest-cost and most critical/ longest lead-time input to the power sector value chain.
Awards that were made to private sponsors for new IPPs did not progress, because those
deals were impossible to close financially, as key lenders (including IFC and ADB)
refused to participate. As a result, no new reliable generation capacity had been added
since 2002. In 2007, the GoB therefore encountered a power sector with vastly
inadequate power supply to meet the demands of a growing economy, a growing chasm
between costs and revenues, and institutional dysfunction from interference with
personnel decisions. Governance problems and repeated deferral of politically difficult
decisions were the most damaging to sector performance.

The last major additions to generation capacity were the Haripur and Meghnaghat power
plants, which were commissioned in 2002; at that time the sector witnessed a dramatic
improvement in supply (lowest level of load-shedding) and also an improvement in sector
finances. These plants had been tendered in the late 1990s, in a fully transparent
environment that facilitated free and fair competition, and resulted in an optimal outcome
for GoB: the winning bidder was financially capable, delivered on-time and according to
agreed specifications, and brought about an immediate, positive impact in terms of
alleviating the power shortfall.

The Power Sector Development Policy Credit (DPC) of June 2008 was intended to
recognize the CTG's achievements to date and to strengthen the platform for further,
high-impact reform. GoB was prepared to proceed with transparent procurement of the
Bibiyana IPP using the services of a transaction advisor and to usher in a return to the
earlier practice of competitive power procurement.



                                            2
The Power DPC was accompanied by a parallel, multi-sectoral single tranche budget
support operation, the Transition Support Credit (TSC), which was focused on tackling
critical longstanding weaknesses in core governance functions. GoB was fully invested
in the strategy to improve governance across the board, and had updated (in April 2007,
and again in May 2008) the three-year rolling "Reform Road Map" for the power sector,
which provides an integrated, time-bound and implementation-focused strategy. The
Reform Road Map is attached in Annex 1.

Macroeconomic Background

Bangladesh has had a positive record on macroeconomic stability, marked by steady
economic growth, fiscal and external sustainability, and cautious monetary management.
Annex 2 contains a table of selected macroeconomic indicators for FY02-09. Despite
prolonged political turmoil, the FY07 growth rate reached 6.4 percent, having attained
6.6 percent the previous year. A strong track record of fiscal prudence is demonstrated
by five successive years (2002-2007) in which the deficit was kept below 4 percent of
GDP (e.g. the FY07 fiscal deficit was 3.1 percent of GDP, smaller than the budgeted 3.7
percent). The manufacturing sector (consisting mainly of garments for export) grew at an
impressive 11.4 percent in FY06, its strongest performance in a decade. Remittances in
the following year were recorded at nearly US$6 billion, which is about 9 percent of GDP
and half of gross merchandise exports, compared with remittances of US$1.9 billion in
FY01. However, revenue mobilization, through tax collection and domestic borrowing,
has persistently fallen short of targets, though there has been an improvement under the
CTG administration due to intense monitoring. Tax revenue growth for the first seven
months of FY08 was a record 24.6 percent, compared with only 9.5 percent in the same
period of FY07. Yet despite record increases, the projected total revenue-to-GDP (11%)
and tax-to-GDP (8.3%) ratios remain among the lowest in the world.

The positive trends noted above notwithstanding, the country's overall fiscal situation
came under heightened stress in FY08 because of the combined budgetary impacts of
natural disasters (which also impacted agricultural output), together with unprecedented
spikes in the cost of imported fuel and food. The major cyclone of November 2007
forced a shift of expenditure priorities to relief and rehabilitation. Rising food prices,
which disproportionately hurt the poor, was the single most important concern for
policymakers. The budgetary impact of these fiscal shocks was exacerbated by mounting
losses of state-owned energy and fertilizer companies. The combination of these forces
led to significant additional stresses on the budget, despite GoB successes in increasing
tax collections. By early 2008, the GoB and the Bank had narrowed the discussion on a
budget support package that would be structured as two operations ­ the TSC, focusing
on a range of key public sector governance issues, and the Power DPC, a split that
recognized the critical nature of focusing on a handful of key power sector reforms and
implementing them in a timely and high quality fashion.




                                            3
Power Sector Background

In keeping with the GoB strategy as outlined in the Reform Road Map (Annex 1), the
power sector is gradually transforming from a government department to a series of state-
owned but market-oriented companies representing different lines of business (generation,
transmission, and distribution). In parallel, private investment (foreign and domestic) in
the generation sector has been a cornerstone of GoB policy for 15 years. The GoB
strategy calls for all of these power sector companies in the different lines of business to
interact in future based on commercial and contractual considerations, with limited or no
need for budgetary transfers. In practice however, the transition to commercial
operations has been hampered by deep-rooted problems including, but not limited to: (i)
persistent shortfalls in power supply, which act as a binding constraint on economic
growth and sector performance; (ii) high levels of system losses (although not high by
regional standards) affecting the already scarce power supply; (iii) financial insolvency
of the sector, due to political directives to maintain a legacy of below-cost tariffs and
political pressure on distribution entities (based on the public service obligation) for
network expansion to unprofitable areas, resulting in increased financial losses; (iv) lack
of clarity and transparency regarding the market value of various sector entities (lines of
business); and (v) weak corporate governance relationships. These include the
relationships between GoB and the Power Development Board on the one hand, and a
weak corporate governance and management structure within some of the sector entities
on the other hand. These corporate governance weaknesses were the basis for the DPC
design to include support for resuscitation of the Energy Regulatory Commission, to take
on the role of a neutral arbitrator.

Table 1 below summarizes the key performance indicators of recent years: large numbers
of new consumers contrasted with the stalled growth in energy output as the lack of new
capacity, combined with operational challenges, constrained energy sales. Annex 3
contains a summary of Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)'s finances,
indicating a growing need for subsidy in the future. All figures have been compiled by
Power Cell and provided to the Bank.

Table 1: Trends in net generation, sales, losses, and customer numbers (2003-2009)

Year ending
                   2003     2004      2005        2006      2007      2008        2009
June 30
Electricity
sent out           18,422   20,302   21,408       22,978   23,004    24,854      26,338
(GWh)
Growth in
electricity sent   5.6%     10.2%     5.4%        7.3%     0.2%       8.0%       5.97%
out
Transmission
                   3.8%     3.5%      3.6%        4.5%     4.1%       3.5%       3.06%
loss

Distribution
                   21.4%    20.0%     17.8%       16.5%    17.14%    15.56%     14.33%
loss




                                              4
    Year ending
                      2003       2004         2005         2006        2007         2008           2009
    June 30

    Electricity
                      13,872    15,333       16,337       17,734      18,294       20,270         21,901
    sales (GWh)
    Growth in
    electricity       7.1%      10.5%         6.5%         8.6%        3.2%         10.6%         8.05%
    sales
    Average
    number of
                      7,700      8,405        9,076        9,800      10,500       10,600         11,221
    customers
    ('000s)
    Average
    supply cost        2.52       2.54         2.63        2.73         2.93         2.94          2.97
    (Taka/kWh)
    Average
    billing rate
    (Taka/kWh)         2.45       2.40         2.27        2.29         2.26         2.36          2.56
    (BPDB all
    category)
    Average
    billing rate
                       3.55       3.42         3.36        3.46         3.52         3.54          3.51
    (Taka/kWh)
    (Retail Tariff)

* Figures compiled by Power Cell

Poor quality power supply is a central economic growth concern, as reported in the latest
Investment Climate Assessment (ICA). Firms surveyed report persistent supply issues,
significant losses of production and sales, and great frustration with the corruption
associated with the sector. Shortfalls in electricity needed by end-users but not delivered,
could be costing the country two percentage points of growth per year, as estimated by
the Institute of Policy Studies2.

Two major challenges were identified by GoB, for which Bank support was provided in
the DPC. These are (i) governance and (ii) financial sustainability. The following
sections provide a summary background discussion of each.

(i) Governance and Accountability in the Power Sector: Recognizing the need for
greater transparency and overall public confidence in the sector, the CTG's primary
reform focus was on strengthening the institutions of governance and accountability in
the sector



2
  The Bank's own calculations confirm this: The last ICA found that power outages resulted in 12% lost
sales, up from 2% reported in the first ICA four years ago. Taking garment sector exports of about $12
billion, the resulting figure gives an estimate of lost garment sales that is about 2% of GDP ($1.44b. out of
a $70b. economy)




                                                      5
The sector's main problems derive from its weak governance arrangements, which in
themselves are a symptom of the short-term (or single term) planning horizon of
successive governments. The Government has been reluctant to charge cost-recovery
tariffs and this may be partly driven by ballot-box politics but equally so due to
inadequate legitimacy/ transparency of sector's costs and a lack of clarity surrounding its
main decisions/transactions ­ e.g. which assets to build (and how they are contracted);
service obligations (including access) and standards; and metering, collections and
revenue management.

Governance weaknesses primarily afflict the two high cost/value aspects of the business,
namely generation contracting and revenue management (the commercial interface with
customers). Symptoms of this weak governance are the government's inability to
commission significant generation capacity (despite many solicited and unsolicited
transactions being initiated over the last 5-7 years), unreliability of several generation
plants which were commissioned (other than the well-tendered and contracted Haripur
and Meghnaghat IPPs), unwillingness and/or inability to charge cost-recovery tariffs (as
this would require a full justification of supply costs to the public), and the delays in
advancing the large customer metering program. The DPC therefore rightly identified
weak governance and decision-making as the central problems facing the sector.

The problems with sector governance however spilled over beyond the handling of IPPs,
as noted above. The full range of procurement processes--whether geared to public
investment or to attraction of private investment in generation--became less transparent
over time. Accountability suffered, and procurement effectiveness diminished. Apparent
collusion and corruption affected a wide range of projects; in many cases actual
investments did not materialize, while in other cases capacity was installed, but came late,
at high cost, and with questionable reliability. There has been a pattern of multiple
government agencies (whether they are directly in the power sector or not) promoting
parallel negotiations on power generation deals with non-transparently identified private
sector parties. As noted earlier, the last transparently procured, reliable large IPP
investments came on-line in 2002, before the emergence of certain private sector parties
who have subsequently gained prominence in the sector, and whose positive aspirations
to contribute to the power sector could usefully be more systematically addressed by GoB.

Corruption has also been a problem at the customer interface, often in the form of
collusion between large customers and selected distribution utility managers, resulting in
diversion of revenue and placing further pressure on utility operating margins; and often
in the form, effectively, of extortion by power company employees of consumers. The
GoB, as part of its drive to limit corruption in the sector, sought Bank support in 2007
during preparation of the DPC, with the introduction of automated metering for large
customers at the South Zone company, where just 1,200 large customers out of 650,000
total, generated about 40% of total revenue. The metering initiative is to be
complemented by a dedicated large customer unit within the company, which would hold
all responsibility for managing the commercial interface with the large customer base.
Broader management reform and institutional autonomy at South Zone were supported
through the ongoing corporatization of the company.



                                             6
(ii) Financial Sustainability of the Power Sector: Improving the energy sector's
financial solvency, and in particular, promoting operational and financial
sustainability of the power sector, thereby mitigating the need for broad operating
subsidies, was a key part of the long-neglected, legacy reform agenda faced by GoB in
2007. The sector (specifically BPDB since operating losses have been concentrated at
the bulk supply level) has traditionally been compensated, though in an ad hoc and
unpredictable manner, with direct budgetary transfers for under-pricing of electricity in a
system that is largely state-owned and operated.3 As one of the Prior Actions under the
DPC, GoB engaged consultants to develop the Financial Restructuring Plan for the sector,
(FRP). The analytic phase has been completed, and work is currently underway to clean
up balance sheets of state-owned power sector entities. The next steps consist of GoB
actions such as write-offs of inter-company arrears, debt restructuring, asset revaluation,
and other measures. These non-price actions to bring the financial statements up to date
are an important preliminary step in regularizing the finances of the sector. Progress to
date on these actions is encouraging: the Ministry of Energy has just announced its
acceptance of the final report on the balance sheet cleaning task of the FRP. A small
Committee has been set up, comprising a Joint Secretary and Utility members, to
implement the report. The Committee will examine the report, determine how to resolve
the various adjustments, and identify where MOF approval will be required, including on
proposed write-offs. This is a direct example of follow-through in 2009 on work
supported by DPC. A more comprehensive solution to putting the power sector on a
path to financial recovery will require a reconciliation of the retail tariff and the delivered
cost of power. The cost of delivered power, on a full-cost recovery basis, is about 1.5
taka higher per unit than the price charged to the end-user for that unit, according to
estimates coming out of the FRP exercise (note ­ this is not the cash operating loss but
the full financial loss).

Without taking a view on the prudence, efficiency or legitimacy of all elements of power
supply costs in Bangladesh, this 1.5 taka per unit loss translates to a total annual financial
loss valued at over 30 billion taka in the power sector (as noted, 30 billion taka is not the
cash operating loss, but instead the full financial loss, involving explicit and implicit
costs, calculated on a full cost recovery basis). This gap between revenues realized, and
the revenues that would be required to cover all costs, is in effect a subsidy from
Government to consumers, although most of it is not recognized in the budget, which has
an allocation of only 6 billion taka (600 crores taka or $88 million) to cover these losses.
The remainder of the subsidy is therefore a quasi-fiscal transfer, i.e. a transfer of public
assets to electricity consumers through off-budget means. The erosion in public assets
results from the shortage of operating cash accruing to service providers on account of
the price-cost gap. This leaves service providers (utilities) unable to carry out proper


3
  A handful of private power companies sell power to the state-owned system at market prices. Such privately
generated power represents about a third of the total power available. Despite this supplement to the power generated
by public plants, there is still inadequate power for existing customers. There is additional unmet demand from 57
percent of the population which remains unconnected to the grid.




                                                           7
maintenance and renewal of the asset base, or to undertake timely repairs (due to a lack
of working capital) which may lead to costly breakdowns. Ultimately there is a depletion
of the asset base which can be traced back to the Government's strategy of keeping end-
user tariffs below the cost of supply.

The need to include a budgetary line item of 6 billion taka for power sector losses alone
during a period of financial constraints, led policy makers in the GoB in 2007 to seek
alternative approaches to reduce and better target subsidy payments. Evidence from a
Poverty and Social Impact Analysis carried out by the IMF shows that energy subsidies
(i) mostly accrue to the better-off who consume more electricity, (ii) crowd out other
development expenditures in the budget, and (iii) add to inflationary pressures arising
from higher bank financing of the public sector deficit. The reason for GoB's inclusion
of financial reform as a priority area of the DPC was that a successful reform of the
energy sector would bring greater transparency to the cost structure of power
supply, unburden the sector of accumulated debts which had been incurred due to
policy weaknesses, and provide some budget support to the sector's transition to
improved commercial practices (and a reduction and/or better targeting of
subsidies).

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

This single tranche development policy credit supported a subset of the Government's
program of power sector reform, as reflected in the Reform Road Map which was
updated in April 2008. The PDO was to strengthen key institutions in Bangladesh's
power sector while enhancing the stability of sector finances.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

Not applicable

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The policy areas supported by the one-tranche Development Policy Credit were part of
the GoB's overall power sector reform plan, as reflected in the Power Sector Reform
Road Map (revision of April 2008). The Bank and GoB agreed on certain items to
constitute the set of prior actions against which the DPC would be disbursed. These
policy areas are shown in Table 2 on the following page.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

No policy areas were revised

1.6 Other significant changes

Not applicable



                                           8
Table 2 summarizes the policy areas supported by the Bank, as well as implementation
performance and ratings.

         Table 2: Summary of Reform areas and actions that supported by the
Power Sector Development Policy Credit (Power DPC), Implementation Performance, and
                                       Ratings

                           Reform being              Actions to be       Monitorable Development
     Policy Area        supported by Power        completed by Power     Indicators/ Performance/
                               DPC                  DPC appraisal                RATING

 Pillar 1--Building Strong Institutions of Accountability

 1A--Private sector     Transparent,              Shortlisting for      Bibiyana IPP tendered and
 participation in       competitive and           Bibiyana IPP          awarded, and progress toward
 power generation       accountable process for   completed             financial close, by March 2009;
                        attraction of new                               other generation procurements
                        private investment in                           conducted according to
                        power generation                                transparent processes
                                                                        Performance: The Bibiyana
                                                                        process led to receipt of a single,
                                                                        qualified bid; discussions to
                                                                        negotiate on tariff were held, but
                                                                        ultimately the process was
                                                                        cancelled by Government in
                                                                        November 2008. While factors
                                                                        including the single bid and the
                                                                        price (approx. 4.4 cents per kWh,
                                                                        levelized over 22 years) were
                                                                        cited as the reason for
                                                                        cancellation, other political
                                                                        factors such as the upcoming
                                                                        election may have also
                                                                        contributed to this disappointing
                                                                        outcome. The project was
                                                                        quickly re-tendered ­ perhaps
                                                                        too quickly -- in Jan 2009; but
                                                                        more recently, Government has
                                                                        decided to engage individual
                                                                        transaction advisers to assist with
                                                                        pre-qualification and the
                                                                        tendering/ selection process.
                                                                        Rating: Moderately
                                                                        Satisfactory

 1B--Regulatory         Full operationalization   Approval of service   Progress on issuing licenses to 6
 institutional reform   of the Bangladesh         rules, organogram     distribution companies, and on
 and strengthening      Energy Regulatory         and table of          approval of Bibiyana and
                        Commission                equipment for the     Siddhirganj PPAs, by March
                                                  Bangladesh Energy     2009
                                                  Regulatory
                                                                        Performance: BERC was very
                                                  Commission
                                                                        active and reasonably
                                                                        independent in 2008. Activity



                                                  9
                          Reform being              Actions to be         Monitorable Development
    Policy Area        supported by Power        completed by Power       Indicators/ Performance/
                              DPC                  DPC appraisal                  RATING
                                                                         has slowed only slightly in 2009,
                                                                         but BERC autonomy seems to
                                                                         have suffered. The extended
                                                                         time delay between BERC's
                                                                         approval of a bulk tariff increase
                                                                         (which is not visible to
                                                                         consumers) and the delay in
                                                                         retail tariff increase, has reduced
                                                                         the distribution margin and
                                                                         threatens to compromise utility
                                                                         operations and service quality.
                                                                         Rating: Moderately
                                                                         Unsatisfactory

1C--Corporate          Corporatization of        Registration of South   Appointment of top management
governance of state-   operating entities to     Zone Power              team and transition from interim
owned enterprises in   promote more effective    Distribution Company    Board of Directors by December
the power sector       and accountable           as a public limited     2008
                       performance               company                 Performance: Registration
                                                                         completed, and full Board has
                                                                         been established and has just
                                                                         started to function; MD and top
                                                                         management search will be
                                                                         launched soon, and interim MD
                                                                         will be appointed too.
                                                                         Management cell has been
                                                                         formed in Chittagong but needs
                                                                         to be empowered with a detailed
                                                                         work plan.

                                                                         Rating: Satisfactory

Pillar 2--Promoting Operational and Financial Sustainability
2A--Power sector       Introduction of budget    (i) In FY08, transfer   In FY2009, to the extent that
financial              mechanism to              taka 500-million per    tariffs do not cover costs, ensure
restructuring          compensate BPDB for       month to BPDB           financial stability of BPDB as
                       below-cost provision of   through budget          indicated by (i) BPDB being
                       bulk energy to            support mechanism;      current with payments to IPPs
                       distribution companies    (ii) implement first    and gas distribution companies
                                                 phase of financial      including through budget support
                                                 restructuring plan      and other measures as necessary;
                                                                         (ii) BPDB maintaining
                                                                         collections at or above 100%
                                                                         (FY08 102%) of current billing;
                                                                         and (iii) continued
                                                                         implementation of financial
                                                                         restructuring plan.
                                                                         Performance: Completed.
                                                                         Transfer of budget resources has
                                                                         continued for the whole of FY09


                                                 10
                           Reform being             Actions to be        Monitorable Development
    Policy Area         supported by Power       completed by Power      Indicators/ Performance/
                               DPC                 DPC appraisal                 RATING
                                                                        and has been provided for in
                                                                        FY10, but the requirement has
                                                                        actually increased because of an
                                                                        increase in contract generation
                                                                        expenses (from leases and
                                                                        rentals, to address power
                                                                        shortages). Budget support will
                                                                        ideally need to increase in the
                                                                        short-term, absent additional
                                                                        tariff increases.
                                                                        Rating: Satisfactory

2B--Transparency        Restructuring the        Tender issued for      Contract awarded by September
and accountability in   customer management      supply and             2008, large customer unit
service provision       interface to eliminate   installation and       established by December 2008,
                        possibilities for        implementation         metering installation at least 35%
                        corruption by power      support for large      complete by March 2009;
                        distribution company     customer metering in   commercial losses for those
                        personnel                South Zone             customers reduced to zero;
                                                                        progress in metering initiatives
                                                                        in other distribution entities.


                                                                        Performance: Delayed. Metering
                                                                        procurement process was tainted
                                                                        and cancelled. Tender
                                                                        document re-issue will be done
                                                                        by South Zone Power
                                                                        Development Company
                                                                        (SZPDC) and not Power
                                                                        Cell/BPDB, estimated around
                                                                        Dec 2009. Preparation of
                                                                        revised DPP is in progress.
                                                                        Contract award estimated April
                                                                        2010 (12 month delay). Benefits
                                                                        unlikely to materialize before
                                                                        end 2010.


                                                                        Rating: Moderately
                                                                        Unsatisfactory
2C--Sustainable         Restructuring of REB     Issue tender for new   Approval of new strategy by
access expansion in     business model           REB Strategy           March 2009
rural areas                                                             Performance: Delayed but
                                                                        ongoing. Approval of new
                                                                        strategy expected in early 2010

                                                                        Rating: Moderately
                                                                        Satisfactory




                                                 11
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix--please
refer to Table 2 above)

The reform program supported by the DPC is broadly on track, albeit with delays due to
the less than optimal outcomes from some initial reform actions (for example only one
bid being received for the Bibiyana IPP and tendering errors in the large customer
metering system) and the time taken by the new government to review and establish its
reform priorities. Performance of the overall program is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

Prior actions for the DPC, to help improve financial performance of the power sector and
to strengthen governance and accountability, were as follows:

   a. Completed shortlisting for Bibiyana IPP
   b. Approval of service rules, organogram and table of equipment for the Bangladesh
      Energy Regulatory Commission (BERC)
   c. Registration of South Zone Power Distribution Company as a public limited
      company
   d. In FY08, transfer taka 500 million per month to BPDB through budget support
      mechanism, and implement first phase of financial restructuring plan
   e. Tender issued for supply and installation, and implementation support for large
      customer metering in South Zone
   f. Issue tender for new REB strategy

These prior actions served as an entry point to what was anticipated to be a long term
reform program. The DPC was designed to support GoB's actions on these key aspects
of overall reform, and to address governance and corruption problems that were further
weakening prospects for financial recovery.

In practical terms, based on the long-standing problems of the sector, it was critically
important to tackle the issues of securing adequate generation, and implementing
distribution improvements, i.e. the reduction of losses associated with available power
supply. The two pillars of support requested by GoB and approved by the Bank (i.e. the
subset of reforms out of the overall GoB reform program), were appropriate because they
addressed longstanding problems in generation and distribution, under the headings of
"governance" and "financial recovery". This fact renders the project design relevant to
the situation on the ground, as it pinpoints the subset of policies that were needed in order
to increase effectiveness of existing investments.

The selected "generation" actions supported by the DPC were: (i) securing timely
payment to existing IPP providers through assured budgetary transfers to BPDB, in order
to safeguard the on-time delivery of power supply already contracted for; (ii) introducing
a transparent and competitive process for procuring new IPP contracts, with the new
process to be launched through with the Bibiyana award as a test case and a confidence



                                             12
building measure; and (iii) Financial Restructuring Plan completion and implementation.
This was done in parallel with the bolstering of the regulatory agency and the associated
actions that have been taken on tariff revisions.

Governance improvements at the customer interface, including reduction of losses from
existing power supply was supported through the following reforms: (iv) introduction of
a large customer metering unit at South Zone Distribution Company (to isolate and better
serve the 2% of customers responsible for 40% of energy consumption), and the
procurement of automated metering technology to reduce commercial losses from this
subset of customers, to zero; (v) implementation of good corporate governance practices
at SZPDC, in order to derive the expected benefits from the institutional and hardware
investments by minimizing political interference in key appointments; and (vi) adoption
of a new rural strategy that would ring-fence REB from political pressures to deviate
from its master plan and its use of objective criteria for where new lines should be built.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

Political economy considerations have been paramount in affecting the implementation
performance of this one-tranche DPC, for which the implementation period has straddled
two governments and an election. The DPC was negotiated in June 2008 with the Care
Taker Government (CTG), which had taken power for two years from an elected civilian
government on an interim basis. The government's agenda was to implement needed
reforms and bring transparency to economic decision-making. One complication that
was encountered was that there was at least some uncertainty about the timing of
elections through all of 2007 and much of 2008. Only in July 2008 was there an
announcement regarding a December 2008 election; and from that point, the policy
implementation flexibility of the government steadily declined. Despite this uncertainty,
the GoB's technocrats were on a fast track, to implement as much of the reform agenda
as possible during their limited time remaining in office; and, for the most part, these
ambitions seemed to have a reasonable level of support from civil society, the media,
donor partners and other stakeholders (notwithstanding the fact that one stakeholder
group, organized labor, was restricted in its activities by the provisions of the state of
emergency). However, once it became clear that the electoral process was ready to
proceed on schedule in December 2008, the transition to a democratically elected
government led to a noticeable decrease in momentum of implementation on the part of
GoB. Two activities were especially affected ­ the Bibiyana IPP and the South Zone
Corporatization. The Bibiyana award was cancelled outright in November 2008. With
South Zone, progress never stopped, but key processes did not move quickly. It took
some time to establish the search committee to select the independent directors for the
Board; however, once the committee was established, it then worked very professionally
and selected high-quality individuals. Only recently, however, has GoB built on this
success to fill out the roster of nominated directors and fully operationalize the Board.

With the return to power of an elected government at the start of 2009, the settling-in
process is now mostly complete, the pace of implementation has picked up, and there is
renewed optimism on the ground that, in many areas, a healthy reform momentum is



                                            13
being established. It is clear at this point there are no explicit reversals in any of the six
areas supported.4 In each of the reform areas, the fact that the Bank has operational
engagements has also meant that the Bank team has been able to be responsive to
government needs ­ for example, on revitalizing advisory support for the IPP process;
some time has been lost, but not so much that fatal damage to the reform program has
occurred.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

A distinction must be made between (qualitative) M&E of the six DPC reform actions,
versus quantitative M&E of overall sector performance; the former was undertaken in a
careful and systematic manner, mostly through completion of prior actions and a
definition of what further qualitative actions would constitute continued performance. By
contrast, systems for quantitative monitoring of the sector's performance, (e.g. targets
versus actuals) are still in rudimentary to non-existent condition and do not yet appear in
GoB's Road Map. However, the ongoing corporatization of sector entities and
strengthening of the BERC are likely to set the stage for systematic performance
monitoring in future, which will allow for a correlation between inputs and outputs. It is
expected therefore, that future updates of the Road Map will indeed be able to track
increased generation output from corporatized public sector generation stations, and
contractual outputs from IPPs, as well as reduced distribution losses and increased
revenue collections from corporatized distribution entities.

The DPC was negotiated based on a set of reform actions already taken by GoB, and a set
of monitorable indicators was agreed in order to ensure implementation of the reforms
that had been initiated. The monitorable indicators were practical and well-defined,
and each corresponded to incremental concrete actions which, through their
demonstration effects, would de-mystify reforms and deliver clear, tangible benefits in
terms of improved sectoral outcome (e.g. increased power generation, improved sector
finances, improved regulatory framework, improved performance of a distribution utility,
introduction of non-arbitrary, transparent governance processes, etc). The intention was
to show how reforms could be packaged into relatively manageable implementation
decisions, which would have a positive impact on the sector, and could then be adapted
by policymakers to other similar situations, in a similarly manageable increment. The
design of each monitorable indicator was therefore formulated in a straightforward
manner, and was appropriately incremental in nature, recognizing the long-term nature of
the reform program. The selection of each indicator was appropriate and to that extent
the framework for monitoring the progress of the reform program was off to a good start.
GoB in 2008 proceeded with implementation of the reform agenda in each of the six
areas. However, mostly due to its short time in office and the uncertainties of the


4
  Of the six policy reform areas, it should be noted that only the environment for autonomous regulatory
actions taken by BERC, has not yet recovered to its level attained during the CTG. However, despite the
lag in terms of BERC operations, here too there has been no reversal, and BERC has held hearings in 2009
on tariff review proposals submitted to it by various distribution companies.



                                                   14
transition, it was not able to fully see through the process of achieving the agreed targets.
In some cases the work which was already undertaken to achieve the targets, will have to
be repeated due to previous procedural errors or shortcomings; for example, in the
procurement process for a set of specialized meters, where the published specifications
were not appropriate to the requirements. However, it is again a credit to the clearly-
defined and pragmatic reform targets, (which are devoid of any apparent reform
"ideology" that may potentially have been a target for reversal by an incoming
administration), such that new decision-makers have found it mostly uncontroversial to
agree that achieving these targets will address shortcomings in the sector's performance
today. The targets have been successfully formulated to minimize the scope for any
policy-based disagreement. This has provided the required insurance to the DPC against
the risk of reversal, despite the unusual circumstances of the change in government
during its original 9 month implementation period.

Implementation of the monitorable actions underlying each of the reform targets is now
back on track (albeit, after some delays), and is therefore rated moderately satisfactory.
The delay, as explained earlier, is due to the political economy backdrop and the
previously mentioned transition to a new set of decision-makers. Despite the
disappointing implementation delays, utilization of the reform targets and their
underlying monitorable indicators has been highly successful, as a dialogue tool with the
new sector leaders. The pragmatic and incremental nature of the indicators to be
achieved has made it easy for the incoming government to understand and appreciate
their benefits, and has thus improved the prospects for continuity, so that the project
development objectives are highly likely to be achieved.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow Up Operation, if any

This was a single-tranche DPC, and there is no next phase included in the present
operation. The DPC was negotiated with a reform-minded transition government; it will
essentially have to be implemented by the new government with a five year tenure, which
will allow the new government enough time to be associated with the benefits of the
reform actions. At this point it is not yet clear whether there will be a follow up budget
support operation to this stand-alone DPC. Again, the design of the DPC partially
compensated for this possibility, because each of the reform areas is covered by on-going
Bank operations of one kind or another. 

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global
priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance: High

The Bank's support to the power sector has followed GoB's priorities as laid out in the
Reform Road Map, and the Bank's CAS. Putting governance at the center of its strategy,
the Bank's CAS aligns itself with the CTG's priorities and emphasizes the need to



                                             15
improve "governance and efficiency in infrastructure by reducing opportunities for
corruption and nontransparent procurement practices" and to "selectively support
meaningful reforms in high priority areas". This DPC supported the CAS's targeted
development outcome to improve access to, and quality of, infrastructure services, by
strengthening sector governance.

The power sector had previously received support through a component of the series of
earlier Development Support Credits (DSCs). However, based on the DSC experience
and given the centrality of power sector performance to overall economic growth, it was
decided to prepare a stand-alone IDA operation that would drill down into the key,
specific areas requiring focused policy action and intense monitoring support to remove
critical performance bottlenecks. The objectives, design and implementation were all
highly focused and relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives (including brief discussion of
causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and outcomes)

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The six policy actions supported under the DPC were grouped into two pillars
representing the PDO: building strong institutions of accountability and promoting
financial sustainability of the sector. While there has been a delay in achieving the
intended outcomes due to the December 2008 elections and handover to a new, elected
government, there has been no reversal in any of the six reform actions.

Pillar One: Building Strong Institutions of Accountability

Overall Rating of this Pillar's Outcomes: Moderately Satisfactory

1a. Reform Action Supported: Transparent, competitive and accountable process for attraction of
new private investment in power generation

The tendering process for the Bibiyana IPP contract (notice of request for
prequalification) was re-issued in January 2009. The previous attempt to competitively
procure an IPP sponsor for Bibiyana was compromised in the eyes of the GoB, by the
fact that despite the presence of reputable transaction advisors, only one compliant bid
was received in late 2008. The timing of the election (December 2008), would have
meant that the outgoing government would award a major contract to a lone bidder as
one of its very last acts in office. The decision was made not to award the contract. The
government chose instead to repeat the call for expressions of interest and hoped to
arrive at a situation the second time around where there would be competition among
bidders instead of a lone bidder.

Outcome: The process of attracting new private investment in power generation is off to
a rocky start. Bibiyana was an illustrative example of a transaction around which an
entire process was supposed to be built, by introducing a new way of doing business [it
was to build on the successful outcome from well-tendered IPPs in the mid-late 1990s]


                                              16
with great emphasis on transparency and accountability, for reasons mentioned
previously in Section 1. GoB needs to attract large amounts of IPP investment every year
for the next few years, from reputable sponsors who have the financial strength and
appropriate experience in the power business, to be able to deliver functioning power
plants. In order to attract the participation of such parties, as well as to secure the
multilateral financing needed to close the deal, GoB must emphasize the transparency
angle of how evaluations and contract-award decisions are made. Taking into account
the diminished appetite of reputable developers to enter emerging markets, giving
credible assurances to market participants that there is no room for favoritism, will lead
to true competition, technically sound outcomes, and better value for money.

Yet, the re-tendering of Bibiyana was rushed into the market for reasons that are not quite
clear, other than the genuine urgency of the requirement for additional generation
capacity. The process of attracting a new round of bidders was allowed to progress quite
far­ to setting revised Pre-Qualification requirements and receiving expressions of
interest. However, there are emerging signs that GoB will adhere to a transparent and
efficient process; for example, it has engaged the services of qualified advisers (being
funded by IDA) to assist with the prequalification of the seven applications that have
been received, prepare the Request-for-Proposals (RFP), and assist with the re-tendering.
In parallel, the GoB is considering engaging a full-service transaction advisor to launch a
comprehensive strategy for the remainder of its power generation contracting program. It
is still too early to say definitively whether or not a credible IPP program has been re-
established in Bangladesh. The DPC did support a credible process, but the ultimate
failure of that process was a major setback. Now the question is whether or not the new
government can fully benefit from the lessons of this process and consolidate a
commitment to transparency in an environment of institutional weaknesses and pressures
for political favors.

1b. Reform Action Supported: Full operationalization of the Bangladesh Energy Regulatory
Commission (BERC)

Outcome: In 2007-2008, BERC was reinvigorated with a full Board and staffing
complement, and issued a tariff order in March 2008 to increase the bulk power tariff by
10% and retail tariffs by 5%. BERC also issued licenses to the existing sector entities
and held preliminary hearings on three applications to increase retail tariffs. It has not yet
issued any decisions on these retail tariff applications. (Distribution companies now have
to pay more for their power purchases, while not being able to recover these additional
costs from their customers; their margins are squeezed, and hence they are anxiously
waiting for BERC to make a decision).

There has been backtracking on the effectiveness of BERC following the change of
government, with recent political interference in changing the leadership of the
organization, and a semblance of explicit political involvement in how and when BERC
should respond to retail tariff applications, which are considered far more politically
sensitive than bulk power tariffs which are invisible to voters. While BERC continues to
preserve its legal authority to fulfill its mandate, there is still room for elected leaders to



                                              17
create the necessary moral authority for BERC to function autonomously. Yet it is once
again to the credit of DPC for having put this issue on the table, as BERC had been
languishing with an existence only on paper since 2003. The fact that BERC is now fully
staffed and can receive tariff applications from sector agencies, is a positive development
for the sector. Since the Power DPC, BERC has: 1) revised the bulk power tariff
(October 2008); (2) increased gas prices in certain customer categories; and 3)
continues a process of consideration of power distribution rates, which is expected to
result in tariff increases in the latter part of 2009 (the timing is not a coincidence, as
typically rate increases are timed for the lower demand periods after Ramadan).

1c. Corporatization of operating entities to promote more effective and accountable performance

Outcome: While corporatization is a long-standing GoB approach to power sector
restructuring, the challenge has been how to achieve both better up-front design, and
better implementation. Parallel work on corporate governance policy was initiated
through the IDA-financed Siddhirganj Peaking Power Project and that work, which
related only to EGCB, PGCB, and GTCL, has been partially mainstreamed in other
power sector entities. The Power DPC afforded the Bank the opportunity to work closely
with Government on corporatization documents from the ground up; this process has
helped raise the bar further in terms of design, and the South Zone documents have since
been adopted for the last of BPDB's distribution areas (called, now, the Northwest Zone).
Corporatization promises significantly elevated levels of accountability as has been
demonstrated at entities like DESCO and PGCB. The SZPDC went through two hiccups
in the appointment of its Chairman (which were initially not in conformity with the
Articles of Agreement), but this was acknowledged and reversed, so that the
corporatization process at SZPDC is now fully on track. The company has been
registered, the full Board has met and duly elected a Chairman, and a competitive process
is now underway to recruit a qualified Managing Director. This corporate governance
reform has been successful so far in making incremental advances, and through the
Bank's operational program, there is continued and encouraging progress in REB and in
six other companies ­ EGCB, PGCB, Ashuganj Power Station Co., DESCO, GTCL, and
South Zone ­ on governance and management effectiveness.

Pillar Two: Promoting Financial Sustainability of the Sector:

Overall Rating of this Pillar's Outcomes: Satisfactory

2a.Reform Action Supported: Introduction of budget mechanism to compensate BPDB for below-
cost provision of bulk energy to distribution companies

Outcome: Budgetary transfers of 500 million taka every month (US$7.3m) have been
made (and continue to be made) to BPDB, which has allowed for prompt payment to
IPPs and rental power providers. This is a major departure from the pre-DPC situation,
and has increased the security of power supply in a power-scarce situation. This positive
outcome can be directly linked to the DPC.




                                              18
2b. Reform Action Supported: Restructuring the customer management interface to eliminate
possibilities for corruption by power distribution company personnel

This reform involved the establishment at SZPDC of a dedicated unit for large customers
(1,200 out of 650,000 total, who account for 40% of energy sales despite representing
only 2% of the customer base), and the introduction of automated meter-reading
equipment for this group.

Outcome: A Management Cell has been established and will function, in part, as the
proto-large customer unit. The full Board is functioning. The procurement of the
automated meter-reading equipment by a centralized entity was not handled effectively
by central institutions in Dhaka, and the Ministry has made a firm decision to ensure that
further procurement efforts will be undertaken by the Chittagong-based SZPDC. There
have been significant lessons learned related to the ways in which metering specifications
are vulnerable to manipulation and these and other lessons are expected to be
incorporated into the re-tendering effort. Financing of the meters is now provided for in
the proposed South Zone Power Distribution Project.

2c. Reform Action Supported: Restructuring of REB Business Model

This reform involved the launch of a study to review the key drivers of REB's recent
financial and operational decline, after years of success and citation as a model of
international good practice for rural access expansion. Following the diagnostic phase
of the study, the consultants are shortly expected to recommend a path to organizational
transformation of REB.

Outcome: The study is in progress. An interim report has presented the need for change
to business as usual, before rural access can be sustainably expanded. The DPC has
played a valuable role by highlighting the link between REB's declining performance and
the governance issues of the sector. At the heart of this strategy effort is the question of
how REB will be structured to fulfill its mandate; the key issue, which evolved over the
course of the last decade, has been the politicization of the Board itself ­ effectively, its
capture by the bureaucracy and the political side of government. The question now is
whether or not some form of corporatization and a greater focus on commercial
performance measures, can get REB back to a more technocratically and accountably run
organization.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

All of the DPC-supported reforms in the power sector are still under implementation, and
none has been reversed. All are delivering benefits, although at a slower pace than
expected. In hindsight, it is easy to see that the implementation by members of two
administrations, and an election in the middle of the implementation period would
certainly lead to delays. The relevance of all six reform areas continues to be high, and
the outcomes to date, while in cases uneven, have been positive and, more importantly,


                                             19
have good potential to provide a solid foundation for more progress. GoB is moving in
the right direction in terms of the transparency of the Bibiyana process, though there is
still some way to go before it is clear whether or not there is a deal in the market that can
be financed. Corporatization is a success story; the budget is regularly providing funding
to BPDB with which to make IPP and gas payments; the REB reorganization study is
underway; and a large customer unit is in the process of being set up at SZPDC. There is
a shadow over BERC at the moment, as little has been done to replace the BERC
Chairman (who was transferred to the ACC), and the appointment of a commissioner to
fill a vacancy may not meet the letter or the spirit of the appointment rules for BERC.
But the agency does continue its work including very recent decisions related to gas
prices. In some senses the near-term setbacks on autonomy should not be seen as
unexpected; and it was always clear that institutional strengthening of BERC would be a
very long-term job.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously
covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

There was no direct poverty impact in the design of the DPC, but to the extent that it is
expected to start a process of reducing the power sector's drain on the budget, (thereby
conceptually allowing scarce (fungible) GoB funds to be redirected to social
expenditures), the continued implementation of these reforms will have a positive impact
on the poor.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-
term capacity and institutional development)

All power sector institutions are strengthened by the spread of good corporate governance
principles, to aid the transition of the sector from a government department to a
commercially-oriented group of autonomous business lines (generation, transmission,
distribution and customer service). REB is set to receive recommendations from the
ongoing consultants' study to bring about its own institutional strengthening and to
implement the required decisions that will reverse the decline in the profitability of its
member cooperatives (PBSs). BERC will need to be on IDA's watch-list, as it is the only
institution which has been weakened over this period; it is however about to start
significant capacity building work that is Bank-financed (through PSDTA). This
continued engagement should be to the benefit of regulatory effectiveness, over time.
The link between the unsustainable and growing gap in sector finances, and BERC's
possible role in arresting this, may need to be discussed in more detail with the new
power team.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Not applicable



                                               20
3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

GoB's incoming power team has adopted the reform areas supported by the DPC, and has
continued to implement them. A full understanding of the importance of introducing a
transparent IPP process, and all the upside of following agreed principles, is being built
and will be intensified as advisory work on Bibiyana ramps up. The directive from the
Ministry of Energy for SZPDC to re-procure the automated meters and to establish the
large customer unit at SZPDC has been issued. The risk of reversal at this stage is
negligible, and besides, there are companion IDA operations that will continue to support
the reforms with investment lending. At the same time, those future investment
operations will not be burdened with reform conditionality, as the reforms have been
placed in a separate policy operation, which implements on a different timetable. This
separation of policy and investment support, but maintaining IDA engagement in both, is
a direct contributor to the lowered risk to development outcome.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank
team took into account lessons learned from the previous series of Development Support
Credits, where the energy sector had been one reform area out of many. The team also
acted opportunistically with a very reform-minded, although short-lived, caretaker
administration. This stand-alone single-tranche Power DPC was a flagship operation, the
first of its kind in Bangladesh, and represented a quantum leap in terms of deepening the
reform effort relative to what would have been possible under a multi-sector development
support credit. The Power DPC was developed with the full awareness that an incoming
government would want to review the policy and regulatory framework, but there was
also an expectation that wholesale changes in the policy areas covered by the DPC were
unlikely. This assessment has been proven correct. The Policy Reform Matrix is well-
focused and yet simple in terms of its two pillars--and its success has actually been
demonstrated by the fact that it has survived the change of administration, and that it
continues to be adopted and implemented by a new power team. This may be largely due
to the pragmatism built into the reform actions and monitoring indicators, and the


                                                21
absence of overt ideology in the entire DPC document. If the arguments had been
justified on the basis of ideology, this would have increased the likelihood of reversal.
The Bank's performance on project design is therefore rated S.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during supervision is rated Satisfactory. The team was
proactive in identifying issues and threats to the achievement of the PDO, and worked
with GoB to find solutions (e.g. deployment of senior staff for dialogue with senior GoB
officials to ensure that the IPP process remained transparent so that IDA could consider
funding support). The Bank team undertook a supervision mission in January 2009, one
month after the elections which saw the arrival of a new GoB power team. The Bank
team briefed GoB on the DPC, as well as the pending actions to achieve the monitorable
indicators as set out in the reform matrix, and took stock of progress to date. A
comprehensive aide memoire was prepared, with detailed briefing to GoB on the pending
sub-tasks which would allow the reform program to proceed in the right direction. The
GoB team was also briefed in detail about the upcoming ICR and was alerted that IDA
would request an assessment of the program from GoB in six months' time. This would
give GoB an opportunity to familiarize itself with the DPC and to shape its views on the
relevance and urgency of implementing the reforms. Most importantly, the supervision
mission also updated the table showing the state of sector finances, which was an
important analytical input handed over to the incoming policymakers in order to set the
context of the reform program. This is likely to have increased GoB's interest in, and
ownership of, the ongoing Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) work. Another critical
reason for the Satisfactory rating on Bank performance is the "permanent supervision"
that is made possible by a very strong and dedicated component of the IDA team resident
in Dhaka, which maintains continuous interaction and dialogue with GoB on power
sector issues.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Bank's performance is rated Satisfactory. The appropriate use of the DPC
instrument to deepen the support to key reforms that surpassed any previous reform
efforts backed by IDA, was done well during the lending stage and maintained through
the supervision stage. In addition, the team proactively raised critical issues with GOB
and sector institutions at critical junctures, to try and resolve them. The locally based
members of the team are able to have high quality interactions year-round with senior
policymakers.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance



                                           22
Rating: Satisfactory

GoB demonstrated strong ownership and commitment at the project preparation phase,
and met all the prior actions of the DPC, after which the credit was disbursed. It
proceeded promptly with recruitment of consultants and preparation of reforms. The
Ministry of Finance released the agreed budgetary allocation to BPDB to enable timely
payment to IPPs and gas companies, and in a demonstration of commitment by the new
administration, (which did not have access to the DPC funds), it has continued to do so
over a year later. Delayed payments for power and gas have in recent years posed a
major threat to the operation of the sector, but one year later, this issue has disappeared
from the list of top five matters requiring GoB attention.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The implementing agencies below the ministry-level are Power Cell, BPDB, SZPDC,
BERC and REB. Power Cell (supported by a transaction advisor) assisted with the
Bibiyana IPP procurement and the procurement of automated meter reading equipment
for SZPDC (no transaction advisor). Both procurements did not lead to contract award;
in the former case, Power Cell was not responsible for the decision to re-tender (GoB and
the Power Secretary made this choice). However, in the latter case, Power Cell did not
fully discharge its responsibilities to oversee a transparent procurement process, and as a
result of improper specifications contained in the bidding documents, the contract could
not be awarded.

BPDB's IPP cell has performed well in terms of effecting timely payments to power and
gas suppliers. BPDB has also worked closely with the FRP consultants on advancing
towards implementation of key non-price recommendations for financial restructuring of
the power sector, i.e. cleaning up its own balance sheet as well as those of corporatized
entities, which have inherited assets and liabilities from BPDB that were in some cases
never reconciled. Clean and up-to-date, meaningful financial statements are especially
important when corporatized entities prepare tariff filings and seek to justify proposed
tariff increases based on allowable rates of return on assets.

After some initial difficulties and delays, SZPDC is now developing some momentum,
and signs are promising in terms of the corporate governance reforms that it was expected
to implement. A full Board of Directors is now in place according to procedures spelled
out in the agreed Articles of Association. A Chairman has been elected, and the full
Board will launch the search for a competitively selected Managing Director, which is
expected to take a few months. In parallel, the South Zone management cell will proceed
to procure the automated meter reading equipment in order to realize all of the revenues
due to SZPDC for its delivery of power to large end-users. The next few months, which
will include a major investment project preparation push, will be critical.




                                            23
BERC is currently in a difficult state, as it is experiencing political interference in its
staffing and scope of work, which is compromising its ability to act as an independent,
technocratic agency. However, the agency and its assets are in place, and it is anticipated
that the usefulness of the agency to the strengthening of sector finances will soon become
apparent and will serve to expedite the creation of the autonomous space in which BERC
needs to function.

REB is aware of the need for organizational restructuring and a new business model, and
is awaiting the results of the consultant study which will provide some recommendations
to this effect. REB's operations have been politicized in the last few years, and REB
would appear to need some unambiguous political signals that GOB would like it to
revert once again to its previous state of operational, financial and technical success,
which made it an erstwhile international case study for a rural electrification model.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory. The highly unusual
circumstances of implementation, with a one tranche DPC being implemented by two
different administrations (with different political and economic policy leanings), and still
maintaining continuity in all of the key reform areas, would justify such a rating. There
have been delays in some areas, but there is every indication that the new GoB team
intends to stay on course with the reform program. This is a testament to the strength of
the GoB/IDA partnership.

6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)

a) Where there is a reasonable likelihood of policy continuity, it is important for the Bank
to seize opportunities to help governments accelerate reform implementation. While
country circumstances will vary and, inevitably, each country will exhibit highly specific
characteristics, the reality is that opportunities for advancing reform are often fleeting.
The Power DPC is an example of such an opportunity, and in hindsight the decision to
accelerate a critical subset of the Government's overall reform program seems quite
reasonable. The combination of opting to work in areas of strong operational
engagement, and a careful assessment of the risks of policy reversal in those areas,
emerge as key elements of a reasonable approach to risk mitigation.

b) The Bank's operational flexibility enabled it to meet a number of objectives. Macro
stability was bolstered with the provision of budget support. This had a larger
importance, given the efforts to return the country to democracy through holding a
credible election. Sector reform has been helped as well ­ though specific areas
supported by the DPC show different levels of achievement, the overall direction of
reform is being maintained (though, with political government, in arguably more
challenging circumstances). This assessment does not directly answer two questions:



                                            24
Should one-off DPLs be done? And should DPLs be done with interim governments?
But it does suggest that, as circumstances dictate, the option of doing one-off DPLs
should be available to Bank teams. It should be noted that the Power DPC was very
much a parallel operation, along with the TSC, and it is difficult to imagine a scenario
where either or both were not done ­ both in terms of the contribution to deficit financing,
and more importantly as instruments that continued, deepened and accelerated certain
reforms, while laying a foundation upon which a new Government could be engaged.
The recognition that policy dialogue proceeds on a different timetable from the
implementation of IDA-financed investments, is another major lesson that was
reconfirmed and demonstrated in this purely policy operation. In particular, the DPC was
designed to extract and bundle together the key policy actions required to make the power
investments (from upstream generation, to downstream distribution and customer service)
more effective, and in so doing, allowed the implementation of the respective investment
operations to proceed more smoothly as well. Certainly in Bangladesh, and possibly in
other countries as well, it is essential (for meaningful monitoring and evaluation
purposes), for implementing agencies to develop work schedules and programs that are
within their control. This provides for greater accountability, and suggests that
implementation progress cannot be frozen for long periods while policy decisions are
awaited, before further investment work can proceed. Managing policy and investment
under two separate but related work-streams has emerged here as a successful project
design strategy for Bangladesh.

c) It is critical, when doing one-off DPLs, that reform areas to be supported are areas of
general interest and involvement going forward, ideally with a direct link to Bank
operations, whether through investment lending or technical assistance. The engagement
that the Bank team had on these issues was critical in the build-up to the Power DPC, and
has been critical in the results that have been achieved to date. And it is this operational
engagement that is likely to be a critical factor in getting reasonable results on items of
unfinished business ­ particularly Bibiyana, REB, and South Zone. It is also important to
assess the likelihood, or not, of reform areas being of on-going interest to Government; in
the case of Bangladesh, pre-election stakeholder consultations by the Bank indicated that
there was very strong support for continued energy sector reform, and for support of
those reform efforts by the Bank. This support cut across all segments of civil society
and across political party lines.

d) Another key lesson is that the Bank should ideally have sufficient operational
engagement on various fronts in order to work with borrowers on implementation of
reforms, even in the absence of on-going development policy operations. In particular,
the dialogue on pursuing the investment program allows the Bank to demonstrate the
importance and impact of reforms in a highly focused way that creates ground-level
champions who stand to benefit from the implementation of those reforms. If the DPC
had not been accompanied by broad operational engagement with various implementing
agencies, it is doubtful whether the present extent of reform impact would have taken
place. The side by side entry points of the DPC as well as other operations under
implementation or under preparation, have contributed to the all-around success of the
reform dialogue and its continuity across administrations.



                                            25
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

The GOB's assessment of the DPC implementation experience is attached in Annex 4.
The Government's write-up confirms that it is committed to continued implementation of
power sector reforms initiated under CTG, and supported by the World Bank.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable




                                          26
Annex 1: Three Year Road Map for Power Sector Reform




                    3-Year Road Map
                                  For
                  Power Sector Reform
                            (2008 - 2010)




                         Power Division
       Ministry of Power, Energy and Mineral Resources
         Govt. of the People's Republic of Bangladesh




                               April 2008
                                (2nd Update)




                                    27
    Contents


Power Sector Reforms in Bangladesh
Introduction
Reform Initiatives
Reform Objectives
Components of Reform
Progress of Reform


Road Map for Institutional Reforms
Introduction
Generation
Transmission
Distribution
Sector Regulation
Power Market Structure
Implementation and
Monitoring Approach


Year wise Target
Year 2007
Year 2008
Year 2009


Annexure- A
(Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform)




                         28
         Acronyms and Abbreviations
APSCL    Ashuganj Power Station Company Limited.
BERC     Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission
BPDB     Bangladesh Power Development Board
CFL      Compact Fluorescent Lamp
CZPDC    Central Zone Power Distribution Company
DESA     Dhaka Electric Supply Authority
DESCO    Dhaka Electric Supply Company
DPDC     Dhaka Power Distribution Company
DSA      Development Service Agreement
DSM      Demand Side Management
EGCB     Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh
ERD      Economic Relations Divisions
FRP      Financial Restructuring Plan
GOB      Government of Bangladesh
HRD      Human Resources Development
IIFC     Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center
IMED     Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division
IPP      Independent Power Producer
LDC      Load Dispatch Center
LGED     Local Government Engineering Department
MIS      Management Information System
NWZPDC   North West Zone Power Distribution Company
NWPGC    North West Power Generation Company Limited
PBS      Palli Biddyut Samity (Rural Electric Cooperatives)
PC       Power Cell
PGCB     Power Grid Company of Bangladesh
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSMP     Power System Master Plan
PSRB     Power Sector Reform in Bangladesh
PTA      Performance Target Agreement
RAPSS    Remote Area Power Supply System
REB      Rural Electrification Board
RFP      Request for Proposal
SBU      Strategic Business Unit
SEDA     Sustainable Energy Development Agency
SEU      Sustainable Energy Unit
SHS      Solar Home Systems
SZPDC    South Zone Power Distribution Company
TQM      Total Quality Management
WZPDC    West Zone Power Distribution Company


                             29
               Power Sector Reform in Bangladesh

Introduction

Providing access to affordable and reliable electricity to all citizens by 2020 is a befitting
national goal of the Government of Bangladesh (the Government). GOB is currently
working with an interim target of providing electricity to 60% of the population by 2010.
At present electricity coverage in Bangladesh is only 43% and per capita electricity
consumption is about 140 kWh which is one of the lowest in the World.

It is recognized that the pace of power sector development has to be accelerated in
order to achieve overall economic development of the country. To upgrade the socio-
economic condition and to alleviate poverty, electricity sector has been prioritized by the
Government.

As power projects are capital intensive, developing adequate generation, transmission
and distribution facilities to provide reliable and quality power supply to the population is
a challenge for the Government. Therefore, to materialize GOB's vision, active
participation of the private entrepreneurs and power sector reform & restructuring are
essential.

The performance of Bangladesh power sector in last two decades fell short of
expectation of our citizen. High system losses in the sector, large amount of accounts
receivable and inadequate tariff have been affecting the financial viability of the utilities
and attractiveness for investment. Acute scarcity of resources hinders financing the huge
cost required for the development of the sector. Absence of clear organizational goals,
adequate financial and commercial autonomy and lack of adequate incentives resulted
inefficiency in the utility management.

Power sector reform is required not only for performance improvement of the existing
utilities but also to cope up with the global change and to create appropriate
environment for private sector participation.


Reform Initiatives

The foremost priority in the reform agenda of the Government is to establish a legal
frame-work for enabling business transaction in the new environment. The roles of
regulation and operation would be segregated to evolving functional entities according
to the structural needs of reformed power sector; Bangladesh Energy Regulatory
Commission will be responsible for regulation of the sector. The Government shall,
however, issue policy directives on matters concerning electricity including measures
necessary for the overall planning and coordination for the development of the electricity
sector.




                                             30
Power sector reforms started in late '70s with the creation of REB. In respect of the
reform program following achievements have been made so far:

   Rural Electrification Board was created in 1977
   Rural electrification program has been successful :
       70 Nos. PBSs established
       Area coverage increased, so far 50,360 villages are electrified.
       Electricity Supplied to 7.3 million consumers out of country's 10.4 million
       consumers in 2007.
       Significantly positive impact on poverty reduction and social benefits to the rural
       people.
   In early nineties, unbundling of the power sector as a part of reform started with the
   creation of DESA in 1991. However, DESA did not perform well.
   A high power Inter-ministerial Committee on "Power Sector Reform in Bangladesh"
   (PSRB) was constituted in 1993. The report of the committee was approved by the
   Government. The committee's recommendations included :
       Unbundling of the sector according to functional lines
       Corporatization of sector entities
       Establishment of an independent Regulatory Commission
   As a result of implementation of PSRB, the Power Grid Company of Bangladesh
   Limited (PGCB) and Dhaka Electric Supply Company Limited (DESCO) were created
   in 1996.
   Power Cell was created under the Ministry of Power, Energy & Mineral Resources in
   1995 to facilitate power sector reforms and to promote private power development
   The National Energy Policy adopted in 1996 which recommended among others
       Sector unbundling
       Private sector participation
       Establishment of an Energy Regulatory Commission
   "Private Sector Power Generation Policy of Bangladesh" was adopted in 1996.
   The Government approved "Policy Guidelines for Small Power Plants (SPP) in Private
   Sector" in 1998
   Government reconstituted board of directors of corporatized entities for good
   governance. Government discontinued the practice of appointing Secretary Power
   Division as chairman of the board and the companies formed board committees for
   Audit, Recruitment and promotion, and procurement to ensure transparency and
   accountability in the corporatized entities.

Reform Objectives

GOB issued its Vision and Policy Statement on Power Sector Reforms in
February, 2000, with the following objectives:



                                           31
1.    Bringing the entire country under electricity service by the year 2020 in phases.
2.    Making the power sector financially viable and able to facilitate economic growth
3.    Increasing the sector's efficiency
4.    Introducing new corporate culture in the power sector entities
5.    Improving the reliability and quality of electricity supply
6.    Using natural gas as the primary fuel for electricity generation
7.    Increasing private sector participation to mobilise finance.
8.    Ensuring reasonable and affordable price for electricity by pursuing least cost
        options.
9.    Promoting competition among various entities



Components of Reform

The principal components of the reform programme have been envisaged as follows:
1.     Segregation of power generation, transmission and distribution functions into
       separate services and creation of BPDB holding company as an apex body where
       generation, transmission and distribution operating companies will be the
       subsidiaries of the holding company.
2.     Corporatization and commercialisation of emerging power sector entities.
3.     Effective regulation under BERC for power and gas.
4.     Private sector participation and private-public partnership in power sector.
5.     Financial Restructuring and Recovery Plan for the sector.
6.     Introduction of cost reflective tariff for financial viability of the utilities and
       promoting efficient use of electricity.
7.     Development of Demand Side Management (DSM) including energy efficiency
       measures to conserve energy.
8.     Creation of appropriate framework and institution to facilitate the development of
       alternative/renewable energy resources.
9.     Utilization of captive power potential of the country through appropriate policy
       framework.
10.    Capacity building and HRD for sector entities and corporatized bodies.


GOB intends to implement the above programme by taking pragmatic steps
through nation-wide consensus of all stakeholders, which include GOB,
existing electric utilities, industries and consumers, labour unions, employees,
Chambers of Commerce and Industry, civil society etc.


Progress of Reform
Recently GOB initiated conversion of BPDB into a holding company including reshaping
of the whole industry. A brief account of progress in the reform of the power sector is
given below:




                                           32
Generation:
   Under the "Private Sector Power Generation Policy", new capacity of 1431 MW has
   so far been developed by Independent Power Producers (IPP's)
   Licenses have been issued to several Small Power Plants under the "Policy
   Guidelines for Small Power Plants (SPP) in Private Sector".
   Under the "Policy Guidelines for Power Purchase from Captive Power Plant",
   agreements signed between utilities and captive generators for 28 MW so far and
   already 10 MW connected to the grid.
   Ashuganj Power Station has been converted into a corporatized entity.
   Electricity Generation Company of Bangladesh (EGCB) has been established to
   implement, own and operate the proposed 2x120 MW and 2x150 MW peaking power
   plants at Siddhirganj and 360 MW combined cycle power plant at Haripur. EGCB will
   also own existing generation assets of siddhirgonj and Haripur power stations of
   BPDB.
   North West Power Generation Company (NWPGC) has been incorporated in 2007.
   Steps have been taken to install new power plants under various modes of financing
   in addition to GOB funding

Transmission:
 Power Grid Company of Bangladesh Limited (PGCB) was created in 1996. All the
 transmission assets (100%) including Load Dispatch Center (LDC) have been
 transferred from BPDB to PGCB.
 Government allowed PGCB to float tax free bonds to raise fund from local market.
 PGCB offloaded 25% share to public through Capital Market in 2006. The process of
 offloading another 15% of shares has been initiated.

Distribution:
 DESCO was established in 1996 and is now functioning in Mirpur, Gulshan, Baridhara,
   Tongi and Uttara area of Dhaka by taking over assets from DESA
 West Zone Power Distribution System of BPDB has been corporatized as WZPDC.
 North West Zone Power Distribution system of BPDB has been corporatized as
   NWZPDC.
 DPDC was incorporated in October 2006.
 Corporatization of South Zone and Central Zone Power Distribution system of BPDB
   is under process
 Steps have been taken to bring the people of remote areas of the country under
   electricity system through Remote Area Power Supply System (RAPSS)" programme
    Distributed generation with distribution franchise for a certain period
    Program to be implemented by the private sector
 SBU activities adopted in 24 distribution circles of BPDB and DESA




                                         33
 For introduction of Performance Target Agreement (PTA) scheme, contract has been
 signed with 24 distribution circles of BPDB and DESA.
 DESCO offloaded 25% share to public through Capital Market in 2006. The process
 of offloading another 15% of shares has been initiated.
Renewable Energy Development:
 Renewable Energy program is being implemented by both public (REB, BPDB, LGED)
  and private sector.
 Government is in the process of establishment of Sustainable Energy Development
  Agency (SEDA) to coordinate and facilitate activities of agencies promoting
  renewable energy.
 More than 200,000 houses, shops and small business have been provided access to
  electricity using SHS. IDCOL has been playing leading role in expanding Solar Home
  System (SHS) in rural areas.
 A pilot biomass plant is in operation near Dhaka and a wind power plant has started
  operation in Kutubdia Island.
Sector Regulation
 Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission Act was enacted in 2003. Bangladesh
   Energy Regulatory Commission (BERC) has been established and made functional to
   regulate the Electricity, Gas and Petroleum sector
    Licensing regulation for generation has been made by the BERC in 2006.
    BERC is in the process of preparing Electricity Transmission Regulation, 2008 and
      Electricity Distribution Regulation, 2008.
Tariff
    Power Pricing Framework has been approved by the Government.
    Rationalization of tariff (partial) has been made in 2006 and effective from March
         2007.




                                         34
             Road Map for Institutional Reform: 2008-2010

Introduction

The 3-year Road Map (2008-2010) including the time-bound action plan is envisaged
in line with PRSP for realization of the vision of reaching electricity to all by 2020. Six
monthly rolling goals for the next three years are also prepared (Annexure - A).
During this period, electricity demand is expected to grow at the rate of 8-10% per
annum. As such, the demand is expected to rise to about 6,608 MW by 2010.
Therefore for reliable supply of power, the generation capacity will be required to be
raised to at least 8,000 MW which will facilitate raising the per capita consumption to
172 KWh and access to electricity to 60%. Thus about 2,800 MW of new generation
capacity will be needed to ensure adequate supply of electricity. Simultaneously, about
2200 circuit km (100 km 400 kV, 1500 km 230 kV and 600 km 132 kV) of transmission
line and about 50,000 km of distribution line will have to be constructed for evacuation
and distribution of power. Together with institutional reform and prudent investment
program ensuring least cost solution can provide quantity and quality power to the
consumers at an affordable price for sustainable economic and social development of
the country. However, in order to redress the sufferings of the consumers due to acute
power shortage in the shortest possible time, the Government has, as an interim
measure, contracted with private power companies for generation and supply of
electricity to BPDB on rental basis for 3 years. These rental power plants (about 300
MW) are expected to be commissioned within 4 months of signing of contract ie, by May
2008. It is expected that within next 3-4 years, the power plants planned for
implementation according to least cost plan will come on line, when these rental power
plants will not be required. In response to overall gas situation, particularly transmission
and distribution constraints new base load, small IPPs and rental power plants are being
set up in and around areas where reliable gas supply is available.
The primary objective of the 3-year institutional reform programme is to create an
institutional foundation on which to ramp, in a sustainable manner, the substantial
investments needed for the sector to properly support economic growth and reduce
poverty. This will require the sector to be restructured to improve its efficiency,
transparency and overall governance, facilitate effective and independent regulation,
expand competition, and begin to improve the quality of electricity services.
Experience gained from the reform attempts has been considered in preparing the road
map. Creation of DESA as a separate authority, without introducing new management &
corporate culture and without sufficient autonomy & incentive, did not yield good results.
Again creation of Ashuganj Power Station Company Ltd (APSCL) and WZPDC without
sufficient preparatory works and addressing governance & employee issues properly
created mismanagement in the business.
Implementation of road map in future will be based on in-depth study. For example the
outcome of BPDB corporatization study will guide structured reform in power sector.
Based on BPDB corporatizetion study, DESA corporatization study, financial restructuring
study, South Zone distribution project study for making it a model distribution entity,
O&M contracting for EGCB study for model generation entity, the Road Map for reform



                                            35
and restructuring of Bangladesh power sector will be updated on a six monthly basis for
the next course of action.
The main outcomes being sought over the next 3-years is further unbundling of
electricity supply into an economically viable number of separate generation and
distribution companies, and a single transmission company. These operating companies
will act as subsidiaries of BPDB holding company. Technical co-ordination of power
system operation will be enhanced through implementation of National Load Dispatch
Center (NLDC) project linking generation and grid substations. A strong planning and
power trading department for bulk power management will be organized under the
BPDB holding company.

The indicative milestones for the institutional reforms of the power sector in the next 3
years are summarized below:


A.     Generation:

       1.     Existing Generation:

              1.1.    All the existing power stations in the public sector will be
                      converted into profit centers for eventual conversion to a
                      corporatized entity individually or on cluster basis which will be
                      retained by BPDB holding company.
              1.2.    All commercial issues related to asset transfer and valuation will
                      be completed.
              1.3.    The business and financial plans will be developed.
              1.4.    All works related to employee issues including payment of service
                      benefits will be completed as per guidelines provided in the Policy
                      Statement on power sector reforms. Employment of all employees
                      to the corporatized entities shall be governed by the latter's service
                      rules.
              1.5.    All efforts will be undertaken by GOB so that the emerging entities
                      can start functioning commercially.
              1.6.    Special plans will be developed to enhance technical and
                      managerial efficiencies and establishing good governance.
              1.7.    Special attention will be given to Human Resources Development
                      (HRD) program.
              1.8.    To improve technical and management capability and to establish
                      accountability, special organizational activities like TQM will be
                      introduced.

       2.     New Generation:
              New generation projects will be taken up to achieve the desired security
              of supply at generation level to be met at least cost and generation
              capacity will be sought through a mix of sources i.e. public, private, and


                                            36
            public-private joint ventures. Employment of Private Sector resources in
            new generation will be encouraged.
            For public sector new generation, special attention will be given to good
            governance, efficient O&M and establishing commercial environment.

B.   Transmission:

     1. PGCB will continue to operate as a wheeler of electricity.
     2. Special attention will be given to Human Resources Development (HRD)
        program.
     3. Demarcation of functional area of generation, transmission and distribution
        will be finalized and installation of system metering will be completed to
        establish commercial arrangement among the sector entities.

C.   Distribution:
     It is realized that main problem lies in the distribution segment. Therefore the
     success of the reform programmes can not be sustained until commercial
     environment is established in this segment.

     C.1.   BPDB:
            1.      BPDB distribution segment will be converted into a number of
                    distribution companies under BPDB holding company. All works
                    towards corporatization of BPDB distribution will be completed.
            2.      All commercial issues related to asset transfer and valuation will
                    be completed.
            3.      Business and financial plans will be developed.
            4.      All works related to employee issues including payment of service
                    benefits will be completed as per guidelines provided in the Policy
                    Statement on power sector reforms. Employment of all employees
                    to the corporatized entities shall be governed by the latter's
                    service rules.
            5.      All efforts will be undertaken to complete computerization of
                    commercial functions to boost revenue collection and establishing
                    transparent transaction.
            6.      Special attention will be given to Human Resources Development
                    (HRD) program.

     C.2    DESA/DPDC:
            1.      DPDC will be fully functional with employees recruited through a
                    process approved by the company.
            2.      All commercial issues related to asset transfer and valuation will
                    be completed.
            3.      Business and financial plans will be developed.




                                         37
            4.     All works related to employee issues including payment of service
                   benefits will be completed as per guidelines provided in the Policy
                   Statement on power sector reforms. Employment of all employees
                   to the corporatized entities shall be governed by the latter's
                   service rules.
            5.     All commercial functions will be computerized to boost revenue
                   collection and improve transparency.
            6.     Special attention will be given to Human Resources Development
                   (HRD) program.

     C.3    REB:
            1.     Steps will be taken to improve REB's performance based on
                   reorganization study.

            2.     Steps will be taken to improve network expansion planning
                   process using advanced tools (software) for least cost option in
                   line with GOB's vision to provide access to electricity to people at
                   an affordable cost.
D.   Sector Regulation:

     The Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission Act was enacted in March 2003
     and Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission has been made functional
     since April 2004. The Commission has mandate to regulate the electricity, gas
     and petroleum sector. The Commission already issued `generation licensing
     regulation' in 2006. Government recently approved service regulations of BERC
     staff. The Commission will be fully functional by the year 2008, with appointment
     of qualified staffs pursuant to the approved BERC organogram.



E.   Power Market Structure:

     At present BPDB is functioning as Single Buyer and it will continue functioning
     except for some direct power purchase from small power producers by the utility.
     Multi buyer/Competitive pool may be adopted when the market becomes
     mature and stable.


F.   Implementation and Monitoring Approach of Reform Program:

     Implementation of the reform program is a very complicated and difficult task
     and requires well-organized, integrated and comprehensive plan and actions. It
     also requires close co-ordination, interaction and strong commitment of the
     Government, and other stakeholders.

     A high level National Steering Committee has been formed. A Task Force
     has also been established and a Working Group has been formed in each utility


                                        38
to implement and monitor the power sector reform programs in a coordinated
and comprehensive manner.




                                39
                      Year wise Targets

Year 2008 (January to December)

1.    Study for conversion of BPDB into a holding company will be completed.
      The study will address corporate and organizational structure of proposed
      holding company, governance issues, relationship between holding
      company and subsidiaries, employee issues, institutional development and
      capacity building etc. Incorporation of BPDB holding company will be
      completed.
2.    Corporatization of DESA will be completed and efforts will be made to
      improve performance including collection of revenues. All works related to
      appointment of employees, payment of service benefits etc. will be
      completed. Employment of all employees of the corporatized entity shall be
      governed by the company's service rules. All assets from DESA will be
      transferred to DPDC.
3.    West Zone Power Distribution Company will be fully functional.
4.    Management and staff appointment of North West Zone Power Distribution
      Company will be completed. New organizational structure will be prepared
      and starts functioning with a well-prepared business plan.
5.    Study for institutional development of EGCB will be completed which
      includes addressing governance issues, preparation of business plan,
      drafting power purchase agreement (PPA) and Gas Supply Agreement
      (GSA) etc. O&M contractor will be appointed.
6.    South Zone Power Distribution Company (SZPDC) will be incorporated.
      Board of Directors and top management will be appointed. Procurement
      process for large customer metering will be completed and installation of
      meter, CT, PT etc will start.
7.    Central Zone Power Distribution Company (CZPDC) will be incorporated.
      Board of Directors will be constituted and top management will be
      appointed.
8.    Power Sector     Financial   Restructuring   and   Recovery   plan   will   be
      implemented.
9.    Board of Directors for NWPGC will appointed. Qualified staffs will be
      recruited.
10.   Installation of system metering for establishing commercial arrangement
      among the sector entities will start
11.   `Generation support framework and financing strategy' will be approved.
12.   Energy Policy incorporating renewable energy will be updated and
      approved by the Government
13.   Study on REB's Institutional Development will start.
14.   Service regulations and organogram of BERC are approved and all
      Commissioners appointed.


                                     40
Year 2009 (January to December)

1.   Board of Directors of BPDB holding company and top management will be
     appointed. All works related to employee issues including payment of
     service benefits will be completed. Organization of Holding Company will
     start.
2.   DPDC with new structure will be fully functional.
3.   North West Zone Power Distribution Company will be operational.
4.   Corporatization of SZPDC and CZPDC will be completed.
5.   Business plan for NWPGC will be prepared.
6.   Installation of system metering will be completed.
7.   Study on REB's Institutional Development will be completed.
8.   Corporatization of BPDB's remaining power plants into a number of
     generation companies under BPDB holding company will start.
9.   Establishment of an independent entity to act as Single Buyer will be
     examined.



Year 2010 (January to December)

1.   BPDB holding company with new structure will be fully functional.
2.   Corporatization of BPDB's distribution segment into a number of
     distribution companies under BPDB holding company will be completed.
3.   SZPDC and CZPDC will be fully functional.
4.   Corporatization of BPDB's remaining power plants into a number of
     generation companies under BPDB holding company will continue.
5.   An entity to act as a Single Buyer will be established.




                                 41
                                                                             Annexure - A
       Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform

                                From January to June 2008
No.        Outcome                        Actions               Date        Responsibility
1.    Conversion of BPDB as        Final Report by the         June 2008     Power Division/
      a Holding Company            Consultants.                                  BPDB

2.    Corporatizetion of           Asset transferred to DPDC   June 2008      Power Division
      DESA
3.    West Zone Power              Management Improvement      Continue          WZPDC
      Distribution Company

4.    North West Zone              Preparatory works to make   June 2008     BPDB /NWZPDC
      Power Distribution           NWZPDC functional
      Company

5.    South Zone Power             Legal status*               June 2008     Power Division/
      Distribution Company                                                       BPDB

6.    Central Zone Power           Legal status                June 2008     Power Division/
      Distribution Company                                                       BPDB

7.    Institutional                Draft GSA prepared          June 2008           PC
      Development of EGCB                                                        EGCB
                                                                                 BPDB
8.    North West Power             Appointment of Board of     June 2008      Power Division
      Generation Company           directors      and  top
                                   management
9.    Implementation of            Interim Report              June 2008          PC
      Financial Restructuring
      Plan (FRP)                                                                Utilities
10.   Installation of system       Contract Signed             May 2008            PC
      metering for
      establishing
      commercial
      arrangement among
      the sector entities
11.   Preparation of               Approval                    May 2008       Power Division
      generation support
      framework and
      financing strategy
12.   REB's Institutional          Issue RFP for the           April 2008        PC/REB
      Development                  appointment of the
                                   Consultant                  May 2008
                                   Proposal submission         June 2008
                                   Proposal evaluation
                                   completed
13.   Indicative                   Implementation of           30 June            PC
      Performance                  Performance Target
                                   Achievement (PTA) Scheme     2008            Utilities
      Improvement
      Target:
      - Dist. Loss (%):            SBU activity
      14.15



                                                   42
      - Collections (%):
      98.00
      - CG Ratio ((%) :
      85.00
      - Arrears(eqv. months)
         BPDB- 2.25 month

         DESA- 3.00 month


   SZPDC Incorporated on May 06, 2008




                                        43
      Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform


                                 From July to December 2008
No.         Outcome                        Actions                   Date       Responsibility
1.     Conversion of BPDB as         Legal status                   Dec 2008      Power Division/
       a Holding Company                                                              BPDB

2.     Dhaka Power                   Employee issues resolved       Dec 2008         DPDC/
       Distribution Company          including service benefits                   Power Division
                                     Prepare new organizational
                                     structure
3.     West Zone Power               Management Improvement         Continue          WZPDC
       Distribution Company

4.     North West Zone Power         Prepare business plan          Dec 2008      BPDB /NWZPDC
       Distribution Company           Prepare new organizational
                                     structure
5.     South Zone Power              Appointment of Board of        Dec 2008      Power Division/
       Distribution Company          Directors                                        BPDB
                                     Top              Management
                                     appointment
                                     Start installation of large
                                     customer metering
6.     Central Zone Power            Appointment of Board of        Dec 2008      Power Division/
       Distribution Company          Directors                                        BPDB
                                     Top              Management
                                     appointment

7.     Institutional                 Final Report                   Nov. 2008           PC
       Development of EGCB                                                             EGCB
                                     O&M contractor on board        Dec 2008
                                                                                       BPDB
8.     North West Power              Appointment of staff           Dec 2008    Power Division/BPDB
       Generation Company

9.     Implementation of             Final Report                   Dec 2008           PC
       Financial Restructuring
       Plan (FRP)                                                                    Utilities
10.    Installation of system        Installation of System Meter   Nov. 2008     PC/PGCB/BPDB
       metering for                  starts
       establishing commercial
       arrangement among
       the sector entities
11.    Energy Policy Update          Approved by GOB                Dec 2008      Power Division/
                                                                                  Energy Division
12.    REB's Institutional           Consultant on board            Sep 2008         PC/REB
       Development
13.    Indicative                    Implementation of              31 Dec             PC
                                     Performance Target
       Performance                   Achievement (PTA) Scheme        2008            Utilities
       Improvement
       Target:                       SBU activity
       - Dist. Loss (%):
       13.50
       - Collections (%):



                                                    44
98.50
- CG Ratio ((%) :
86.00
- Arrears(eqv. month)
   BPDB- 2.10 month

  DPDC- 2.90 month




                        45
       Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform

                                From January to June 2009
No.        Outcome                        Actions                     Date        Responsibility
1.    Conversion of BPDB as        Formation of Board of             June 2009     Power Division/
      a Holding Company            Directors and appointment of                        BPDB
                                   Top Management
                                   Employee issues resolved
                                   including service benefit
2.    Dhaka Power                  Management improvement             Continue         DPDC/
      Distribution Company                                                          Power Division

3.    North West Zone Power        Management improvement             Continue     BPDB /NWZPDC
      Distribution Company

4.    South Zone Power             Transfer of asset from BPDB       June 2009     Power Division/
      Distribution Company         Resolve employee issues           June 2009       BPDB/PC
                                   including service benefits
                                   Appoint Large Customer            March 2009
                                   Metering Consultant
5.    Central Zone Power           Transfer of asset from BPDB       Dec 2008      Power Division/
      Distribution Company         Resolve employee issues                             BPDB
                                   including service benefits
6.    North West Power             Prepare business plan             June 2009        NWZPGC
      Generation Company

7.    Implementation of            Implementation         of   the    Continue         PC
      Financial Restructuring      recommendations of          the
      Plan (FRP)                   study in the utilities                            Utilities
8.    Installation of system       Installation of System Meter       Continue     PC/PGCB/BPDB
      metering for
      establishing commercial
      arrangement among
      the sector entities
9.    REB's Institutional          Study completed                   June 2009         PC/REB
      Development
10.   Indicative                   Implementation of                 30 June           PC
                                   Performance Target
      Performance                  Achievement (PTA) Scheme           2009           Utilities
      Improvement
      Target:                      SBU activity
      - Dist. Loss (%):
      13.00
      - Collections (%):
      99.00
      - CG Ratio ((%) :
      87.00
      - Arrears(eqv. months)
        BPDB- 2.00 month

        DPDC- 2.75 month




                                                 46
       Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform

                                  From July to December 2009
No.        Outcome                         Actions                        Date         Responsibility
1.    Conversion of BPDB as a        Organization of holding          September 2009         BPDB/
      Holding Company                                                                   Holding Company
                                     company according to
                                     new structure
                                     (suggested by the
                                     study) starts
2.    North West Zone Power          Management Improvement              Continue          NWZPDC
      Distribution Company

3.    South Zone Power               Start functioning                 July 01, 2009    PC/BPDB/SZPDC
      Distribution Company           Installation of Large Customer
                                     Metering completed                August 2009
4.    Central Zone Power             Starts functioning                July 01, 2009     BPDB/CZPDC
      Distribution Company

5.    North West Power               Management Improvement              Continue          NWZPGC
      Generation Company

6.    Installation of system         Installation of System Meter       Nov. 2009        PC/PGCB/BPDB
      metering for establishing      completed
      commercial arrangement
      among the sector
      entities
7.    REB's Institutional            Implementation of the               Continue             REB
      Development                    recommendations of the study

8.    Corporatization of             Preparatory works completed         Dec 2009           BPDB/
      remaining BPDB's                                                                   Power Division
      generation units
9.    Establishment of               Review of Power Market              Dec 2009           BPDB/
      Independent Single             Preparatory works completed                         Power Division
      Buyer

10.   Indicative                     Implementation of Performance        31                 PC
                                     Target Achievement (PTA)
      Performance                    Scheme                            December            Utilities
      Improvement                                                        2009
      Target:                        SBU activity
      - Dist. Loss (%): 12.50
      - Collections (%):
      99.00
      - CG Ratio ((%) : 88.00
      - Arrears(eqv. months)
        BPDB- 2.00 month

        DPDC- 2.65 month




                                                 47
          Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform

                                   From January to June 2010
No.          Outcome                        Actions                 Date        Responsibility
 1.   Conversion of BPDB              Re-organization             June 2010         BPDB
      as a Holding                    completed                                    Holding
      Company                                                                     Company
2.    South Zone Power                Prepare investment plan    March 2010        SZPDC
      Distribution Company            Improve customer service    Continue
3.    Central Zone Power              Prepare investment plan    March 2010         CZPDC
      Distribution Company            Improve customer service    Continue

4.    Corporatization of              Implementation starts       June 2010     Power Division/
      remaining BPDB's                                                              BPDB
      generation units                                                             Holding
                                                                                  Company
5.    Establishment of                Implementation starts       June 2010     Power Division/
      Independent Single                                                            BPDB
      Buyer                                                                        Holding
                                                                                  Company
6.    Indicative                      Implementation of          30 June 2010        PC
      Performance                     Performance Target                           Utilities
      Improvement                     Achievement (PTA)
      Target:                         Scheme
      -   Dist. Loss (%): 12.25
      -   Collections (%): 99.00      SBU activity
      -   CG Ratio ((%) : 89.00
      -   Arrears(eqv. months)
           BPDB- 2.00 month

           DPDC - 2.60 month




                                              48
          Six Monthly Rolling Goals of Power Sector Reform

                                   From July to December 2010
No.         Outcome                          Actions               Date        Responsibility
 1.   Conversion of BPDB as            Improve co-ordination      Continue         BPDB
      a Holding Company                among the subsidiaries                     Holding
                                                                                 Company
2.    South Zone Power                 Management                 Continue        SZPDC
      Distribution Company             Improvement

3.    Central Zone Power               Management                 Continue         CZPDC
      Distribution Company             Improvement

4.    Corporatization of               Implementation continue    Dec 2010     Power Division/
      remaining BPDB's                                                             BPDB
      generation units                                                            Holding
                                                                                 Company
5.    Establishment of                 Implementation             Dec 2010     Power Division/
      Independent Single               complete                                    BPDB
      Buyer                                                                       Holding
                                                                                 Company
6.    Indicative                       Implementation of         31 Dec 2010        PC
      Performance                      Performance Target                         Utilities
      Improvement                      Achievement (PTA)
      Target:                          Scheme
      -   Dist. Loss (%): 12.00
      -   Collections (%): 99.00       SBU activity
      -   CG Ratio ((%) : 90.00
      -   Arrears(eqv. months)
           BPDB- 2.00 month

           DPDC - 2.50 month




                                              49
Annex 2: Summary Macroeconomic Indicators for Bangladesh FY02-FY09


                                          Summary Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                                  Actual                      Estimate          Projections
                                                FY02      FY03     FY04     FY05     FY06       FY07          FY08        FY09
Output and Prices                                                            annual percent change
  Real GDP Growth                                4.4       5.3      6.3       6.0     6.6          6.4         5.5          6.5
  CPI                                            2.8       4.4      5.8       6.5     7.2          7.2         10.2         8.0
External Outlook
  Exports (f.o.b.) (billion $)                   5.9       6.5      7.5      8.6      10.4       12.1          13.1        15.2
    Annual % change                              -7.6      9.5      15.9     14.0     21.6       15.6          9.0         15.5
  Imports (c.i.f.) (billion $)                   7.7       8.7      9.8      11.9     13.3       15.5          18.7        21.8
    Annual % change                              -8.7      13.1     13.0     20.6     12.1       16.6          20.8        16.5
  Current account balance (% of GDP)             0.3       0.3      0.3      -0.9      0.9        1.4          -0.4        -0.5
  Gross official reserves (billion $)            1.6       2.5      2.7      2.9       3.5        5.1          5.5          6.4
    In months of GNFS imports                     2.1      2.9      2.8      2.5       2.7        3.3          3.0          3.0
Public Finance                                                                 In percent of GDP
  Total Revenue                                 10.1      10.3      10.2     10.5     10.7       10.3          11.3        115
  Total Expenditures                            14.8      13.7      13.3     13.8     13.9       13.6          16.1        16.5
  Overall budget deficit (excl. grants)         4.7        3.4      3.1      3.3       3.2        3.2          3.1          3.7
  Budget support to SOEs                         ..         ..       ..       ..        ..         ..           1.7         1.3
  Budget deficit including support to            ..         ..       ..       ..        ..         ..          4.8          5.0
  SOEs*
  Domestic financing                            2.5        1.2      1.8      1.7       2.1        2.0          2.3          2.8
  Public debt                                   52.7       51.1     51.0     50.1     48.3       46.5          45.5        43.6
Money and Credit                                                           End of year; percent change
  Net Domestic assets                           11.6      12.2      13.5     17.1     19.6       13.4          16.8        14.1
  Private sector                                13.9      12.6      17.5     17.0     18.3       15.1          15.1        14.9
 Broad money (M2)                               13.1      15.6      13.8     16.7     19.3       17.5          15.9        16.2
Source: IMF & GoB
Notes: (i) GFNS= Goods and non factor services; (ii) *Starting from the revised FY08 budget, the definition of budget deficit has
been broadened to include explicitly the financing of the operating losses of the four largest loss-making non-financial energy
and fertilizer state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The FY08 revised budget covers 71 percent of these losses.,




                                                        50
Annex 3: Summary of Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)'s Finances
             BPDB Consolidated Financial Statements FY2005-2008 and Projections to FY2012 (Taka millions)

                                                                     Balance Sheet
                                                                                 ACTUAL                           Prov.                   PROJECTED
              PROPERTY & ASSETS                                2004-05      2005-06  2006-07         2007-08     2008-09      2009-10       2010-11  2011-12
FIXED ASSETS LESS DEPRECIATION                                  119,930      133,473  186,688         188,453     192,683      195,643       197,028  196,629
INVESTMENT                                                       15,216       15,366   14,502          17,546      17,246       16,746        16,246   15,746
CURRENT ASSETS                                                   79,735       80,751   79,495          83,986      85,144       87,342        87,649   91,481
TOTAL PROPERTY & ASSETS                                         214,881      229,590  280,685         289,985     295,073      299,731       300,922  303,855

              CAPITAL & LIABILITIES
PAID UP CAPITAL                                                   78,157      84,647       89,323     90,808       95,308       99,058       102,058     104,308
NET SURPLUS / (DEFICIT)                                          (53,577)    (63,234)     (83,833)   (94,382)    (105,086)    (120,493)     (137,876)   (157,159)
OTHER RESERVE                                                     60,875      61,034      122,780    123,065      123,165      123,265       123,365     123,465
TOTAL SHARE HOLDERS' EQUITY                                       85,455      82,447      128,270    119,490      113,387      101,829        87,546      70,614

LONG TERM LOAN                                                   45,471       54,756       56,911     65,506       76,682      92,882       108,342     128,192
MEDIUM TERM LIABILITIES                                           3,839        4,150        4,548      7,151        7,151       7,151         7,151       7,151
CURRENT LIABILITIES                                              75,687       84,642       87,164     93,471       93,486      93,501        93,516      93,531
CLEARING ACCOUNTS                                                 4,429        3,595        3,792      4,367        4,367       4,367         4,367       4,367
TOTAL CAPITAL & LIABILITIES                                     214,881      229,590      280,685    289,985      295,073     299,731       300,922     303,855



                                                                   Income Statement
                                                                                 ACTUAL                           Prov.                   PROJECTED
                PARTICULARS                                    2004-05      2005-06  2006-07         2007-08     2008-09      2009-10       2010-11 2011-12
OPERATING REVENUE
ENERGY SALES                                                     43,581       45,859       47,986      53,927      61,121       68,813       70,393      82,279
OTHER OPERATING INCOME                                            1,124          710        1,598       2,016       2,151        2,077        2,108       2,140
TOTAL REVENUE                                                    44,705       46,568       49,583      55,943      63,272       70,890       72,501      84,419
OPERATING EXPENSES                                               47,738       53,517       56,366      62,510      70,721       83,043       86,630     100,447

OPERATING INCOME                                                  (3,033)     (6,948)      (6,783)     (6,567)      (7,449)    (12,153)      (14,129)    (16,028)

NON-OPERATING EXPENSES (INTEREST & ERF)                            3,052       2,432        2,258       3,255       3,255        3,255         3,255       3,255

NET LOSS/INCOME FOR THE YEAR                                      (6,086)     (9,381)      (9,041)     (9,821)    (10,704)     (15,407)      (17,383)    (19,282)

RETAINED EARNINGS
BALANCE AS AT JULY 01                                            (47,094)    (53,577)     (63,234)    (83,833)    (94,382)    (105,086)     (120,493)   (137,876)
PREVIOUS YEAR'S ADJUSTMENT                                          (397)       (277)     (11,558)       (728)        -            -             -           -
NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR                                           (6,086)     (9,381)      (9,041)     (9,821)    (10,704)     (15,407)      (17,383)    (19,282)
BALANCE AS AT JUNE 30                                            (53,577)    (63,234)     (83,833)    (94,382)   (105,086)    (120,493)     (137,876)   (157,159)



                                                                 Cash Flow Statement
                                                                                 ACTUAL                           Prov.                   PROJECTED
                                                               2004-05      2005-06  2006-07         2007-08     2008-09      2009-10       2010-11 2011-12

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
OPERATING INCOME                                                  (3,033)     (6,948)      (6,783)     (6,567)      (7,449)    (12,153)      (14,129)    (16,028)
ADJUSTMENTS:                                                       5,869       8,755       10,858       7,872        1,164         999         1,146         785
NET CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES                           2,835       1,806        4,075       1,306       (6,285)    (11,153)      (12,982)    (15,242)

CASH INFLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS                                               (7,360)    (18,699)     (71,369)     (8,979)    (11,550)     (10,500)       (9,150)     (7,600)
SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS                                               427        (151)         865      (3,044)        300          500           500         500
NET CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES                          (6,933)    (18,850)     (70,504)    (12,023)    (11,250)     (10,000)       (8,650)     (7,100)

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
CAPITAL STOCKS, GRANTS AND APPRAISAL SURPLUS                       4,764       6,649       66,422       1,770       4,600        3,850        3,100       2,350
LONG TERM LIABILITIES                                              3,809       9,286        2,155       8,595      11,177       16,200       15,460      19,850
SECURITY DEPOSITS, PENSION FUNDS                                     357         311          398       2,603         -            -            -           -
NET CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVIITES                           8,929      16,246       68,974      12,968      15,777       20,050       18,560      22,200

INCREASE/DECREASE IN CASH                                         4,832         (798)       2,544       2,250      (1,758)      (1,103)      (3,072)       (142)
CASH BALANCE B/F                                                  9,989       14,821       14,023      16,567      18,817       17,059       15,956      12,884
CASH BALANCE C/F                                                 14,821       14,023       16,567      18,817      17,059       15,956       12,884      12,741

SUBSIDY REQUIRED                                                                                                                 5,000         9,000     12,000

Return on Net Fixed Assets                                         -1.5%         -8.1%     -11.3%       -6.9%        -5.8%       -6.3%         -9.1%      -10.4%
Return on Equity                                                   -1.3%         -7.1%     -11.2%       -8.6%        -7.9%       -9.2%        -14.3%      -18.4%
Accounts Receivable (months)                                         14.9          15.5       15.2        13.3         12.3        11.4          10.7        11.1
Debt as % of Debt plus Equity                                        33%           34%        37%         42%          32%         38%           43%         50%

NOTES:
- The projections are provided by BPDB Controller's Office. It does not consider any restructuring or other changes that may emerge from the ongoing Financial
Restructuring Plan (FRP) work or other sector reform activities.
- The subsidy requirement has been calculated to keep the cash balance position equal to 3 months of operating costs. Further discussion with BPDB is needed to
establish a formula for calculating subsidy requirement for future years.




                                                                            51
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Alan Townsend             Senior Energy Specialist            SASDE Task Team Leader
Raihan Elahi              Senior Energy Specialist            AFTEG Sector Specialist
Md. Iqbal                 Senior Energy Specialist            SASDE
Shaukat Javed             Program Assistant                   SASDE
Md. Abul Fayez Khan       Program Assistant                   SACBD
Supervision
Alan Townsend             Senior Energy Specialist            SASDE Task Team Leader
                                                                    Utility Financail
Zubair Sadeque            Financial Analyst                   SASDE
                                                                    Analysis
Md. Iqbal                 Senior Energy Specialist            SASDE
Mohammad Anis             Energy Specilist                    SASDE
Sudeshna Banerjee         Economist                           SASDE
Md. Abul Fayez Khan       Program Assistant                   SACBD



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                             15                    77.04
                          Total:                   15                    77.04
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                             7                       0.00
                          Total:                   7                       0.00




                                              52
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

  Reform areas and actions to be supported by the Power Sector Development
                                 Policy Credit

1A. Short listing for Bibiyana 450 MW IPP:

Bibiyana 450 MW IPP project was initiated on priority basis with the support of the
World Bank. A transaction advisor with the financial assistance of IFC was appointed to
assist in the evaluation process and road show activities were carried on to attract the
sponsors. In spite of all these efforts response was not so encouraging However, 6
sponsors have submitted the PQ documents and the evaluation committee short-listed 4
sponsors and invited RFP. Finally, two sponsors didn't submit the proposal and a
consortium of rest two short-listed sponsors submitted the bid. Finally, government had
cancelled the bid in November 2009 with the plea that it had been a lone bid with
comparative high tariff and decided to go for re-tendering. This time, to attract more
participants and to have competitive environment without compromising quality,
operating & development experience for 750 MW power plant was relaxed to 500 MW.
In the financial criteria, only `Net Worth' requirement was clarified properly and
logically in the PQ document. Government re-launched Bibiyana 450 MW in January
2009 with the changes mentioned above in the qualification requirement without any
transaction advisor. 7 sponsors have submitted the PQ documents. But in absence of a
full service transaction advisor donors are not willing to support this project without
which financing of such a huge capital intensive project would be impossible.
Considering the implication the present government has taken up the matter with the
World Bank and decided to engage three individual consultants (legal, technical,
financial) as transaction advisors with the support of the World Bank through PSDTA
project. With these advisors in place the second pre-qualification will move on.

1B. Corporatisation of South Zone:

As a part of GOB's continuous efforts to corporatise and commercialise the power sector
entities south zone distribution of BPDB was taken up to corporatise. A preparatory
consultant Soluziona, Philippine was appointed under PSDTA to design the corporatised
entity in September 2006. The consultant submitted their Final Report in June 2007.
Following the development of an overall design and substantial efforts by Power Division
and BPDB a more robust Memorandum and Articles of Association was prepared and
SZPDC was incorporated as a public limited company under the companies Act 1994 and
received certificate of commencement of business on May 6, 2008 with the shareholders
being eight members of BPDB and its subsidiary entities. A temporary Board
comprising four of these shareholders was established and vested with transparent and
quality recruitment of four independent Directors and the Managing Director. The
temporary Board first met in September 2008. Three independent Directors and five
nominated Directors are in place and the recruitment of the Managing Director is yet to
be done. A competent Chairman is also to be appointed in accordance to the Articles of


                                          53
Association. However, a Board meeting is scheduled in July at which the Chairman will
be elected and a competitive recruitment of a Managing Director will be initiated.

Progress of the SZ corporatisation and its functioning as a corporative entity is important
to enable it receiving World Bank's US$ 150m investment and institutional support.
Formal reviews of Financial and Procurement capacity in also required to meet World
Bank standards. Establishment of a dedicated Large Customer Unit and procurement of
Large Customer Metering equipment is also required. The success of SZPDC will depend
critically on an effective Board and effective management that properly deal with
government and BPDB in its smooth functioning.

2A. Implementation of Financial Restructuring and Recovery Plan (FRP):

In order to restore the power sector's financial viability and creditworthiness within a
reasonable timeframe "Power Sector Financial Restructuring and Recovery Plan" under
the Power Sector Development Technical Assistance (PSDTA) Project was prepared by
an international consulting firm, M/S Fichtner GmbH, KG and Co, Germany. The plan
was approved by GOB in principle on 29 March 2007. In the plan the consultant has
recommended some immediate, short-term, medium-term and long- term actions to be
implemented to make the power sector financially sustainable. In order to implement the
immediate actions of the plan, specifically for cleaning up of the balance sheets of the
utilities, Ernst & Young , India (Consultant) was appointed in November 2007. The job
consists of three phases with total 12 months duration. The task is to be accomplished in
3-phases; phase 1: data collection, analysis & collation, phase 2: option and
recommendations for cleaning of balance sheet and phase 3: implementation assistance.
Most of the tasks under these three phases are almost complete except Fichtner model
updation and implementation assistance. It is expected that after successful completion
of the assignment the projected deterioration of BPDB financial condition would be
stopped. As a result GOB's budget mechanism to BPDB to meet power and gas purchase
obligations would be reduced.

The consultant would submit its Final Report within first week of July 2009. Power
Division will form a committee headed by the Joint secretary (Dev) to implement the
recommendations of the report after acceptance of the same by the Power Division. A
core team has already been formed to takeover the model from the consultant for
subsequent use and updating time to time.

2B. South Zone Large Customer Metering:

Under the Power Sector Development Policy Credit (Power DPC), GOB has committed
to installing and operationalising a modern and credible metering system for large
customers (LCM) in the South Zone. Considering the urgency it was decided in a wrap-
up meeting of IDA mission that the procurement process of LCM would go parallel with
the preparation of DPP. It was decided that the Power Cell would be the contract
administrator while SZPDC through BPDB would implement the project and the DPP
was being prepared accordingly. The World Bank has assured additional funds for the


                                            54
project. However, the assured additional funds were credit but grants portion were also
required for consultancy part of the project. Accordingly, the ICB for procurement of
LCM was invited in 25 May 2008 and the bids were opened on 11 August 2008. The
evaluation committee evaluated the bids and Power Cell sent the evaluation report to the
World Bank and clearance was accorded. Meanwhile, while verifying the test reports for
authentication Power Cell found that some of the test reports of the lowest evaluated
bidder are fake. Considering the prudence of the procurement and delay in approval of
DPP Power division has cancelled the bid. Finally, it was decided in the wrap-up meeting
held on 22 June 2009 that the LCM would be procured by SZPDC at appropriate stage.
Power Division will do needful in this regard.

2C. Study to Assess Current Organizational and Management Strengthening of
REB

The principal aims of creating Rural Electrification Board (REB) were to increase
electricity access to rural people in a sustainable manner and to give pace to the
development of rural economy. Reform of the Bangladesh power sector has been drawing
GOB's and donor community's attention over many years and the process has started
yielding positive results. By this time, the Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission
(BERC) has been established and a regulatory environment for the sector institutions is
now functional. Before emerging of the BERC, the power sector was being regulated and
controlled by the various institutions like, the Power Division, the BPDB, the REB and
the DESA. As the regulation of the sector is now vested with the BERC, the roles and
responsibilities of the power sector entities including the REB will somehow be different
from the roles and responsibilities vested in it earlier.
REB is a semi-autonomous organization of the GOB. The overall program of rural
electrification is administered by REB and the specific distribution system within a
particular area is owned and managed by the respective rural electric co-operative known
as Palli Bidyut Samity (PBS). REB was established as a pivotal institution for improving
the quality of life of the vast rural multitudes and accomplishing continuous advancement
to their socio-economic conditions through supply of stable and reliable electric power to
the rural areas of the country. Presently REB serves electricity to around 9.0 million
consumers through 70 PBSs. The PBSs were initially established to function on "no loss
no profit" principle. In that context it was conceived that in the event of any operating
surplus of deficit, it would be adjusted for in the form of lower or higher tariffs from the
consumer of that particular PBS. REB as apex body evaluates, approves and monitors the
engineering, financial and management aspects of PBSs. REB also provides fund to the
PBSs as debt for capital investment. REB also sets tariff of each consumer category for
each PBS. It also determines the technical standards of construction, operation and
maintenance of electrical distribution system of 33 kV and below voltage levels. REB
centrally procures the construction, operational and maintenance materials of all PBSs.
These functions and roles are required to be reviewed critically in respect of the functions
and roles of recently functional BERC, because BERC has now the overall responsibility
to regulate the energy sector in accordance with the Government policy. Besides,
continuity of Board Members and the proportion of in house members are also crucial for
an effective REB management.


                                            55
In order to review the current organizational and management strengthening of REB an
international consultant SMEC International Pty Ltd., Australia was appointed under
PSDTA project. The consultant's work is being supervised and monitored by a team
headed by Member (PBS), REB. The consultant commenced their work since 22
October 2009 and submitted the Interim Report in March 2009. The report couldn't meet
the expectation of the stakeholders. This was communicated to SMEC and upon feedback
from Power Cell and the World Bank, SMEC sent their representative from Philippines to
discuss the issue and propose a solution. Mr. Werner R. Scheider, GM, Power Operations
West met Power Cell and World Bank management and admitted that it was the lack of
capacity of the Team Leader who could not deliver. He proposed to replace the Team
Leader by a Senior Consultant and staff of SMEC, Australia as the new Team Leader.
The new TL will be able to deliver the product and if necessary further supports on key
staff on the TOR will be made available from SMEC HQ to produce a quality report. He
committed SMEC's quality services for the contract. However, REB's ownership on the
study and the report is also important to determine the future of REB. A working
committee has been formed in REB for providing support to the consultant and Power
Division has already advised REB through a letter on................to be proactive in
providing support and in making the best use of this consultant for charting out the
strategic alternatives of REB. Once the study is successfully completed the major
challenge for REB and GOB will be to approve the strategy and implement it effectively.




                                          56
