 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14679

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 05/26/2015

               Country: Sri Lanka
             Project ID: P118870                                                      Appraisal                Actual
          Project Name: Sri Lanka: Emergency          Project Costs (US$M):                       65.0                   75.5
                         Northern Recovery
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                       65.0                   65.0
      Sector Board:        Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):                                             10.50
                           Development
            Cofinanciers: AUSAID                       Board Approval Date :                                12/17/2009
                                                                 Closing Date:          12/31/2012          12/31/2013
           Sector(s):      Other social services (44%); Irrigation and drainage (18%); Water supply (18%); Roads and
                           highways (15%); General public administration sector (5%)
          Theme(s):        Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (100%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:             ICR Review                  Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Lauren Kelly               Christopher David        Christopher David           IEGPS1
                           Nelson                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

"To support the Recipient’s effort to rapidly resettle the Internally displaced persons (IDPs) to their original place of
residence in the Northern Province and restore their social and economic life by creating an enabling environment that
would be achieved through: (A) Emergency Assistance to IDPs; (B) Work-fare Program; (C) Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction of Essential Public and Economic Infrastructure; and (D) Project Management Support" (Financing
Agreement, Schedule 1 page 4).

As formulated in the Project Paper, the objective does not include the Financing Agreement to "restore their social
and economic life." Nor does it commit to resettle the IDPs "to their original place of origin." The full text reads as
follows: “to support the Government of Sri Lanka’s efforts to rapidly resettle the IDPs in the Northern Province by
creating an enabling environment" (Project Paper p. vi).

This Review uses the Financing Agreement Objective per IEG's ICR Review Validation Protocol.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component A: Emergency Assistance to IDPs (Appraised at US$6m; US$2.0m Actual) Designed to provide
immediate assistance to support for livelihood activities (agricultural, fishing) of returnee households including (1) task
forces that would conduct land surveys and studies related to contested property rights; (2) de-mining awareness
programs targeted to the IDPs; (3) clearing thick vegetative growth within paddy lands to support the resumption of
agricultural activities; (4) the provision of basic inputs, seeds, fishing implements to restart farming and fishing
activities immediately after resettlement.
Component B: Workfare (Appraised at US$12m; US$10.5m Actual). Designed to bridge the gap between the
immediate resettlement assistance, the first farming harvest, and medium term income generating needs. The
component was designed to finance a minimum of 50 days of guaranteed employment for one member of each IDP
household (or the equivalent of 25,000 Rupees per household). The program would support small scale labor
intensive repair and rehabilitation works at the village level. The Work-fare program was designed both to provide
emergency assistance and the repair of infrastructure works critically needed to restart productive and social activities
(clearing debris of damaged houses and village buildings, cleaning dug wells, repairing hamlet level access roads,
small irrigation canals etc). The project paper also viewed this component as an opportunity to begin to support
community based consultations and participation in the identification of infrastructure needs.

Component C: Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Essential Public and Economic Infrastructure (Appraised at
US$44m; Actual US$60m). Designed to support the repair, reconstruction and restoration of vital public and economic
infrastructure and facilities damaged by the war with a focus on inter-connectivity (roads) and access (markets,
schools, health services and safe drinking water). The component was subdivided into infrastructure categories:

(1) Rehabilitation of Irrigation Systems. Designed to support the rehabilitation of selected damaged irrigation
schemes, canals, and ponds to enable returnee farmers to access a reliable supply of irrigation water for crop
production and food security. The total estimated cost of rehabilitation of damaged irrigation infrastructure of the
Northern Province was estimated to be in excess of US$100 million at the time of project appraisal. The project
support was estimated to restore irrigation access to 12,000 ha of farm lands.

(2) Rehabilitation of Rural Roads. Designed to support improved mobility and to restore village inter-connectivity and
access to markets, education and health of the resettled and conflict affected people. The component would finance
essential rehabilitation of rural roads (classified as Class E and below under the national road classification system).
The component was designed to support about 650 km of rural road rehabilitation.

(3) Restoration of Drinking Water Schemes. Designed to support the restoration of an estimated eight selected key
water supply schemes in Phases I, II and IV of the Government’s Resettlement Plan supplying an estimated 30,000
people with piped water supply. Owing to the time it would take to restore these facilities in the returnee areas, the
component was designed to also finance the short-term repair of drinking water facilities (tube wells etc.) in the target
areas to ensure that returnees have access to safe drinking water immediately after their resettlement. For the same
purpose, the component also financed the cleaning of domestic dug wells which were estimated to support 100,000
IDPs either with piped water supply or clean water from wells.

(4) Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Public Buildings and Facilities. Designed to finance the essential
rehabilitation and reconstruction of public infrastructure needed to revive civil administration and various technical and
welfare services to the public. The buildings and facilities would include space for housing divisional secretariats;
furniture service centers; seed production farms; agriculture supply and training centers; fishing boat and cooperative
stores etc. The project notes that major school buildings, large hospitals and health clinics would have only been
funded through this component if funding gaps to rehabilitate those facilities were identified and unable to be funded
through other ongoing IDA projects. The component would not fund the rehabilitation and/or new construction of
privately owned assets, including houses of IDPs or security installations including police stations and offices and staff
quarters of security forces.

Component D: Project Management, Oversight, Monitoring and Evaluation , and Special Studies (Appraised at
US$3m; US$3m Actual). Designed to support the Government in implementing the project, coordinating all project
related activities, including a needs assessment, procurement and financial management support, monitoring and
evaluation, safeguard activities, and a technical review that would commissioned of the quality of the civil works
financed under Component C. All incremental staff hired, incremental operating costs, and procurement of goods
associated with the implementation of the project, such as vehicles, equipment and office facilities, would be financed
under this component. The Project Paper also indicated that the component would finance “a public information
awareness campaigns and a mine risk awareness campaign” which appear to repeat some of the activities financed
under Component A.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Costs/Borrower Contribution Total project cost were appraised at a level of US$65.0 million. Actual project
costs were US $75.5 million reflecting an additional US$10.5m contribution from (the former) AUSAID to fund cash for
work activities (see Component B). There was no (planned nor actual) borrower contribution to this project.

Dates. An emergency operation, the project was prepared over a period of four months, between October 2009 and
December 2, 2009 when the project was approved. Designed as a two year project, the project was expected to be
implemented and completed over two year ending on December 31, 2011. However, the credit closing period was
kept ar three years in case of unexpected implementation delays. At the time of Mid-Term in May 2011, the project
increased its allocation for works (component C) from US$44m to US$60m, having received US$10.5m from AUSAID
that it decided to reallocate for the Cash for Works program (component b). The additional financing for infrastructure
rehabilitation required additional time for the Government to plan, design, and implement the works. Accordingly, the
project extended the closing date by one year to December 2013.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of Objectives is rated Substantial both at the time of appraisal and close . The FY09-FY12 Country
Assistance Strategy was geared towards addressing the drivers of the long standing conflict in Sri Lanka, with a focus
on equitable growth especially in the lagging regions of the country. It also focused on service delivery. The northern
and eastern provinces were the most severely affected by the 25 years of fighting -- with a massive displacement of
persons throughout. The Country Assistance Strategy emphasized the need to improve access to public services to
help create Livelihood opportunities in the conflict affected areas, with a particular focus on the rehabilitation of roads,
irrigation, water supply, housing as well as health and education services.

The specific language used in the Financing Agreement objective, however requires consideration in so far as it is
unclear why the Bank made a commitment to return IDPs to their original place of residence, with regard to limitations
that the project was exposed to at the time of appraisal. A significant amount of land formerly occupied by the
displaced, for example, was and remains under Government use. Moreover, it is generally understood that
international donors, when supporting the Government repatriation of displaced persons, should allow choice between
three possible forms of return, namely: (1) return and sustainable integration in the place of their former homes; (2)
sustainable local integration where they had been displaced to, and (3) sustainable integration in another part of the
country. These return choices allow displaced persons to be resettled with "safety and dignity.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of Design is rated Modest. The Project's design and associated results framework had several
weaknesses. The project was equipped to measure the number of persons resettled. It was also equipped to measure
and report in on the intended and unintended social impacts of the resettlement on the assisted population through an
innovative tool that was used, entitled the "Continuous Social Impact Assessments." However, the project was not
designed to measure the quality of the resettlement process, including whether the internally displaced persons
received adequate information and consultation about the relocation process and livelihood options - a recognized
good practice in development assisted resettlement processes. It also fell short of describing the types of actions that
could be taken in the face of potentially negative reported social impacts. The project log-frame was also not designed
to report on the origin of the persons resettled. There were different waves of displacement in Sri Lanka during the
war, including but not limited to the population that were in the camps that were emptied at the time of project design.
The project design was relevant in a post-conflict situation; it focuses both on the immediate needs of the resettled
population through a cash for works program and longer term economic and social integration (the latter of which
addresses a driver of the conflict). However the project was only designed to measure the outputs that were financed
through the second objective. In a post-conflict situation, metrics related to access and equity would have been
relevant, also perceptions. The project was also not designed with interventions to adequately support or measure
social re-integration. Metrics that were put in place - such as "number of Continuous Social Impact Assessments"
completed were process oriented and inadequate. Design also seems to have neglected a discussion of the quality or
management of the findings of the "mobile land studies" it financed. Against a backdrop of protracted displacement
during a 26 year long conflict, restitution rights are naturally complex and layered and without adequate ordinances in
place, related activities run the risk of increasing tensions in a fragile post-war environment.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The achievement of the Objective to Support the Recipient’s effort to rapidly resettle IDPs [internally displaced
persons] to their original place of residence in the Northern Province . Rated Substantial.

The project substantially helped to rapidly resettle Sri Lanka’s IDPs , however there is no evidence that these
persons were resettled to their original place of origin . While resettling the displaced population to their original place
of origin may not have been the relevant or correct option – the ICR does not provide any information as to why the
objective was changed (as flagged in the Objectives section) or how decisions about return were taken. This is an
important consideration with regard to the rating of the overall achievement of this objective since, while it is
recognized that repatriation procedures are the responsibility of the host country, the international development
community has a commitment to ensure that assisted return is conducted voluntarily, in safety and with dignity, and
that returnees are allowed to return to their homes or places of habitual residence - or -- to resettle voluntarily in a
another part of the country ( see the Inter-Agency Standing Committee Framework on Durable Solutions).

The implementation completion report provides evidence that 140,000 persons were released from the Government
camps, however there is no information available on the process or resettlement location. The ICR does indicate,
however, that this returned population (and members of their households) received emergency assistance through a
Cash for Work Program. According to the ICR, within the first 50 to 60 days, the program provided returnees with 2.1
million days of work as compared to a target of 1.1 million days of work and households with 44,671 days of work as
compared to the original target of 45,000 days of work. Returnees were also supported by a program of land mine
awareness. Awareness training was conducted, de-mining activities were carried out in accordance with the
International Mine Action Standards, and the release of land was subject to the results of quality control checks.
However, as noted by the implementation completion report, the process of land release in the North was slow.
(Actual de-mining activities were supported by several other donors, including Australia, India, Japan, Norway,
Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and US).

The achievement against the Objective to Restore the internally displaced persons social and economic life is rated
Modest. The project helped to restore the economic life of the returnees, however the information provided is limited
to the outputs of the project. While an emergency operation may not have been able to measure impacts, it could
have measured access and quality of the services provided. The output level data that is available, which includes
contributions made through the cash for work program cited above, indicate that the project:
   Brought 19,086 ha of agriculture land under cultivation (as compared to an original target of 12,00 ha and a
     revised target of 16,200) through support for emergency irrigation rehabilitation.
   Removed thick vegetative growth from 7,207 ha of farm land as compared to a target of 7600 ha.
   Provided 14,796 returnees with seeds, agricultural inputs or fishing implements (as compared to a target of
     15,000).
   Rehabilitated 686km of rural roads (as compared to a target of 875 km, due to the reallocation of funds towards
     irrigation rehabilitation).
   Constructed 469 public buildings (as compared to an original target of 260 buildings, 400 revised).
   But fell short of its drinking water target: it provided safe drinking water access to 5,247 persons compared to a
     target of 30,000 persons.

Meanwhile, there is inadequate evidence that the project helped to restore the returnees social life. The project does
not report on the specific findings of the Community Social Impact Assessments, which were included as part of
project design to assess and address social risks experienced by the returnees. Metrics identified by the project that
could have been used to weigh in on the social aspects of the reintegration process included:
   The pace of return and standards of return process;
   Quality of de-mining;
   Restitution of housing, land and property;
   Accessibility to the Bank and other relevant national and international agencies to the conflict affected districts to
     be engaged in consultations;
   Access (gender, vulnerable persons) to wage earnings in rehabilitation and reconstruction activities;
   Resulting imbalances and polarization in demographic changes.



 5. Efficiency:
  A detailed economic analysis of this project was not conducted at appraisal owing to the emergency nature of the
project. The following rates were calculated for major activities supported by the project (representing 35 percent of
project costs), at project close:

Irrigation rehabilitation (irrigation rehabilitation represented 12 percent of the project, or uS$8.4m). The project
calculated an estimated 47.5 percent economic rate of return for the area under irrigated agriculture, however this
estimate requires some disaggregation both with regard to the crop type under cultivation and the seaon during which
the crop is cultivated.. The costs associated with achieving reported yield increases are also high, estimated by the
ICR to equal US$602 per hectare.

Jungle Clearing (project costs totaled US$2.15m representing 3 percent of project costs) is reported to yield an ERR
of 84.3 percent based on the restored productivity of 3,410 ha, almost half of the 7,558 ha of agricultural land cleared.
The ICR does not clearly demonstrate how the ERR was estimated or explain why only 55 percent of land cleared
was not returned to productive use. IEG’s May 2013 project performance field assessment of two contemporary
projects (including the Reawakening Project implemented in like project areas) revealed that reasons may include a
(1) tendency to prioritize physical rehabilitation in areas where farmer capacity was lacking or had yet to be
strengthened owing to displacement and the need to rebuild communal relations and the (2) significant amount of
territory that was occupied by the Government after the cessation of major warring activities.

Road Rehabilitation (road rehabilitation represented 20 percent of project costs, or US$13.79m). An ERR of 26.6
percent was estimated utilizing an analysis of four roads that were considered typical of the roads built under the
project. The project estimated a 26.6 percent return, calculated on the basis of time saved for the transport of
agricultural product and increased market access, owing to the enhanced quality of the roads. The road rehabilitation
also provided social benefits that were not factored into the rate of return, such as access to health and education
and the delivery of other government services made possible by the infrastructure rehabilitation.

Based on the three rates of return estimated by the ICR for irrigation rehabilitation, jungle clearing, and road
rehabilitation, efficiency overall is rated Substantial.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Based on a substantially relevant objective but modest design, a substantial achievement of the first project
objective but a modest achievement of the second, and substantial efficiency, the overall outcome of the project is
rated Moderately Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Overall Risks associated with the Social and Economic Integration of IDPs . As of February 2014, according to the
International Rescue Committee, both current and former IDPs continue to face a number of obstacles with regard to
the restoration of their economic and social livelihoods. These obstacles include a lack or partial lack of access to
land, lack of access to services (including housing, water and sanitation), and continued cultural and linguistic
barriers. A full assessment of the risks to development outcomes for the internally displaced communities would
require a more comprehensive assessment of livelihoods and of present day access to economic and social services
that was not made available though supervision or completion reporting.

Risk to the Development Outcomes associated with the Rehabilitation of Infrastructure . Operations and maintenance
of the works is a continued risk. Discussions with northern and eastern communities held during the consultations for
the FY09-FY12 CAS period pointed to the risks of supporting supply driven infrastructure, from the point of view of
sustainability/ operations and maintenance. The emergency nature of this operation limited the ability of the project to
consult adequately with communities or to design a demand-driven approach. While the project utilized a mechanism-
entitled the Sustainability Assessment Committee - constituted through a parallel project, there is no information in the
ICR about the projected sustainability of the works, costs, or capacity of the farmer organizations to support (water
and land) use decisions and/or the repair of the works,

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The World Bank responded rapidly to the Government of Sri Lanka's post conflict resettlement needs. The
Bank prepared this emergency operation within four months of the Government's request to support its
Resettlement Program. Preparation included social development specialists with experience working in fragile and
conflict affected situations. The incorporation of a dedicated gender specialist with a similar exposure to gender
issues in fragile and conflict affected situations would have strengthened the approach. While the ICR indicates
that it took a balanced approach of tending to emergency needs while helping to develop sustainable, institutional
development impacts - there is no evidence in the ICR that institutional capacity building needs were addressed
as part of design. Inadequate attention was paid to operations and maintenance of the infrastructure investments
as part of project design.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    There was adequate fiduciary oversight of the project, with Supervision missions carried out over the 4 year
project implementation period. Audits reported that financial management met required Bank standards.
Continuity of Bank staff and consultants, as well as staff of the project management unit and the project
implementation committees resulted in a good working relationship between the various parties involved in
implementation. However, there is no reporting on the findings of the Continuous Impact Assessments or the
potentially negative impacts of decisions involving land and resettlement. The project objective related to
economic and social reintegration is only modestly achieved, in part, because of the lack of data collection and
reporting on access and quality of the Bank's support. For example, the project had intended to report on
imbalances or polarization that may have occurred as a result of demographic shifts during the war. it had also
intended to report, through the Continuous Social Impact Assessments, whether women and especially vulnerable
persons gained access to wage earning opportunities. These assessments were also designed to observe and
report on issues related to the restitution of housing, land and property. By project end, much of this information
had not been made available through project reporting nor was it summarized in the ICR.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government of Sri Lanka provided a high level of support for this project. The project had the support of
the Secretaries and key staff of the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Finance & Planning, the
Governor and Chief Secretary and other key staff of the Northern Provincial Council, and provincial department
directors and staff. The Borrower complied with all matters pertaining to the Financing Agreement. However,
several key pieces of information are missing from this assessment with regard to the risks raised in the project
paper that undermine the ability of this review to rate Government Performance as fully Satisfactory. There is no
evidence provided on the (1) standards of the return process; (2) quality of demining; (3) adequacy of the
restitution of housing, land and property. Involuntary land acquisition was projected to be a major safeguards
issue but there is no evidence in the ICR about compliance with this policy in a sensitive, post-conflict operation.
There is also evidence that the decision by the Government to suspend the Cash for Work program (while
transferring responsibilities from IDA to AusAID) reduced the number and level of opportunities for the returnees.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
     The PMU and the PICs were staffed by competent people who were dedicated to ensuring the project activities
were implemented well and in a timely manner. Project implementation continued at a fast pace over a four year
implementation period. Throughout implementation overall project implementation progress was rated by Bank
supervision missions as satisfactory, except during the first year when it was rated moderately satisfactory due to
initial delays in hiring of PMU/DPMU staff, establishing closer working relationships with Provincial and
Departmental staff, short-listing contractors and in the finalizing 6-month work plans. Procurement was rated
satisfactory during most of the implementation period but downgraded to moderately satisfactory on three
occasions, two of these in the final year of implementation due to an over-commitment of works contracts which
had not been pre-approved by the Bank. Financial Management was rated Moderately Satisfactory during the first
two years of implementation during which time Bank supervision missions raised a number of financial
management which, according to the ICR, were all satisfactorily resolved by the PMU and did not impede
implementation. The financial management rating was raised to Satisfactory during the third year.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The project's management information system fell short of developing indicators, or measuring the project
development objective as agreed to in the Credit Agreement. The Monitoring System was not designed to report on
whether the internally displaced persons that were resettled were returned to their original place of residence. It was
also not designed to assess the extent to which the outputs supported by the project contributed to a restoration of
social and/or economic life, or the interim outcomes envisioned by the project. The project was designed, on the other
hand, to adequately measure the physical interventions in quantitative terms. Other qualitative measures such as
access and quality were lacking. A continuous social impact assessment was designed to assess and report on risks
in real time. The system was designed to be implemented by a third party with lessons learned throughout
implementation integrated into the project.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The Project Management Unit was responsible for monitoring and evaluation. The PMU, through the PICs in each
district, collected information from the government agencies responsible for implementing project activities, and from
routine reports to monitor the return of the IDPs. Actual M&E staffing of the PMU and PICs was independent from
those directly involved in implementation which was important for ensuring integrity of the information generated. The
project also partnered with UN agencies to obtain relevant data. It relied on the United Nations High Commission for
Refugees's confirmation of the returning IDP to monitor the achievement of the first development objective and for
assessing if the disbursement triggers have been met.

c. M&E Utilization:

The M&E system was kept simple - it captured an adequate information to allow for a validation of the outputs of this
project, including labour days, amount of land cleared, roads repaired, and water supplied etc. Information made
available through the project also allowed for the calculation of estimated economic benefits. Quality, however, of the
resettlement process, the Cash for Work, or the works was not reported. The project implemented an arms-length
relationship between its M&E team and the implementing agents. This reportedly helped to ensure the integrity of the
data collected. The project also utilized UNHCR data to assess readiness with regard to its disbursement criteria.
There is no evidence however that the findings of the continuous social impact assessments were used to make
design or implementation changes.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
Three Safeguards were triggered at Appraisal: OP 4.01 Environmental impact assessment; Physical Cultural
Resources (OP/BP 4.11); and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). Because this is an Emergency Operation –
processed under Operational Policy 8.60 – and because the physical areas that would be supported by the project
were yet to be determined (due to ongoing mine clearing) , the project did not undertake an Environmental and Social
Assessment prior to appraisal. Rather, as per the policy, the project developed an Environmental and Social
Assessment and Management Framework (ESAMF) which would serve as a template for undertaking environmental
and social assessment and management of Project activities during implementation.

OP 4.01 Environmental impact assessment Due diligence was exercised in the implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan – there is evidence that Environmental Management Plans were prepared for many of the works
sub-projects and Environmental Screening Checklist was also prepared and used. However neither an independent
validation nor an independent end-line assessment of impacts was conducted. According to the ICR, this was due to
the that the PMU informed the Bank that there was a “lack of funds and that it could not procure a consulting firm to
conduct a project-wide independent Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).” According to the ICR the Bank agreed
that the EIA be conducted as an in-house activity by the Environmental PMU Officer in collaboration with an external
environmental expert “in order to speed up the process.” The results of this assessment, incorporated in the
Borrowers draft suggest that, taken individually, the majority of sub-projects funded through the project were of a scale
that did not require detailed environmental impact assessments since almost all sub-projects comprised rehabilitation
or renovation of existing buildings, irrigation schemes and roads, while the cumulative effect of the large number of
sub-projects implemented could be significant.

Social Safeguards. The ICR indicates that social safeguards were considered satisfactory by all missions except the
third (November 2010) when it was downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory due to the Cash For Work program
being stopped midway and delays in paying IDPs for their work which was considered a reputational risk.

“Continuous Social Impact Assessments (CSIAs)” The Project Paper proposed that “Continuous Social Impact
Assessments” would be undertaken quarterly in year 1 and twice a year thereafter throughout the duration of the
project to examine and report on both intended and unintended social impacts related to IDP return (i.e. adequacy of
technical and financial assistance, health and education services, land dispute resolution systems, rievance redress
mechanisms etc.) It would also review beneficiary consultation; targeting and selection of work-fare and other
activities financed by the project; utilization of local labor for rehabilitation works; and impact of the project on recovery
of the local economy and livelihoods etc. The CSIA would help to enhance the conflict sensitivity of the project and its
general impact including safeguards aspects. From the ICR, it appears that only 4 CSIAs were carried out and there is
no information available in the ICR on the quality of the services provided as perceived by the IDPs; nor a discussion
of how beneficiary consultation; targeting and selection of work-fare and other activities were carried out by the
project.

OP/BP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement: This review further finds that information on the nature and characteristics of
the land acquisition process, and the actions taken to ensure due diligence, are lacking from the completion reporting.
The ICR reports that almost 80 percent of subprojects applied a social safeguards screen but does not discuss the
remaining 20 percent. Information related to the land acquisition process associated with the subprojects is also
unclear. The screened subprojects are reported to have “showed very few land acquisitions” which were reported to
have been “land donations [or] lands released from the Government.” As stated in the Project Document, while
resettlement and land acquisition were anticipated to be kept to a minimum, the ESAMF provides guidelines,
principles and instructions to compensate negatively affected persons to ensure that they will be assisted to improve,
or at least to restore, their living standards, income earning or production capacity to pre-project levels regardless of
their land tenure status. The actions taken to ensure compliance with the Bank’s Operational Policy, and their relative
impacts, are not reported in the ICR.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement was rated satisfactory during most of the implementation period but downgraded to moderately
satisfactory on three occasions, two of these in the final year of implementation due to an over-commitment of works
contracts which had not been pre-approved by the Bank. An independent Technical Audit consultant was put in place
in 2010, shortly after commencement of infrastructure works – the position provided useful technical monitoring and
quality audits which resulted in an improvement of the quality of works.

Financial Management was rated Moderately Satisfactory during the first two years of implementation during which
time Bank supervision missions raised a number of financial management (and procurement issue)s which, according
to the ICR, were all satisfactorily resolved by the PMU and did not impede implementation. The FM rating was raised
to Satisfactory during the third year. According to the ICR internal and external financial audit reporting ensured that
financial management met required Bank standards.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


 d. Other:
Gender. It is not clear why there was “no specific targeting of women” (ICR P.13) in this project when so much was
being done in other CDD projects in Sri Lanka contemporaneously to promote women’s participation in local
leadership and decision making at the village level in both the economic and social spheres. The ICR refers to
impacts expressed by the Borrower’s ICR but does not affirm them. The Borrower’s ICR is quoted as suggesting that
“priority was given for the inclusion of women headed households and for elderly women” but there is no evidence to
this effect in the ICR. According to the Bank’s ICR, “women headed households comprise nearly one tenth of total
resettled households. The project along with RAP addressed their livelihood and economic needs but there was no
systematic approach to address them as a vulnerable population. Special attention should be given to the war widows
who have been facing more difficulties than others. Some are very young with 2 or 3 children and do not have
permanent income sources. They are unable to look after their children and unable to educate their children very well.
Lack of income is key economic problem for their life. The SEIA recommends that a special project targeted war
widow program is urgently needed to prevent socio- economic problems of widow and their children in future. Such a
project should not be as welfare based project. Instead, it should be as project to make them a productive and
permanent income generating human resource” (ICR p.53).


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately         Project design had weaknesses
                                                            Satisfactory       (access and quality were not
                                                                               measured); there were no provisions to
                                                                               alter implementation if negative impacts
                                                                               were reported through the social impact
                                                                               assessments (a tool without teeth) and
                                                                               the project did not develop a
                                                                               mechanisms to support social
                                                                               reintegration.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant        1. lack of information provided on social
                     Outcome:                                                  integration does not allow for a
                                                                               considered assessment of risks;
                                                                               2. Risks to achieving a durable solution
                                                                               are present, since evidence provided
                                                                               mainly include bridging mechanisms;
                                                                               3. Risks to O&M of the Infrastructure
                                                                               repaired are present since the systems
                                                                               referred to in the ICR (Village
                                                                               Development Organizations) lack legal
                                                                               status and financial means.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately         Supervision lacked reporting on the
                                                            Satisfactory       social impacts of this project
                                                                               implemented in a sensitive, post-conflict
                                                                               environment.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         Suspension and reorientation of the
                                                            Satisfactory       Cash for Work Program resulted in
                                                                               inequalities in the allocation of grants
                                                                               amongst IDPs; other information on the
                                                                               quality of the resettlement process is
                                                                               lacking.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

1. A cash for work program implemented in a post -conflict or emergency situation provides an opportunity to
deliver immediate relief while taking the opportunity to consult with the affected community to discern their priority
economic and social needs . Community based infrastructure that is delivered in centralized or supply-side manner
is less likely to be owned or sustainable managed by resettled communities. Consultation should be broad-based:
it should allow for the meaningful participation of women and allocation of economic and social assets that are in
line with their needs. The same lesson holds true to the most vulnerable (landless, disabled etc.) persons in a
post-conflict assistance operation. World Bank projects should report on the differentiated assistance that was
received by these different groups.

2. Reporting on the number of persons resettled in a a World Bank assisted resettlement program is insufficient ;
project reporting should include the quality of the resettlement process , the preferences and concerns of the
displaced, issues pertaining to access and equity , restitution (housing and land) and the manner by which
grievances were handled . The Northern Recovery project in Sri Lanka mainly reported on the number of persons
that were resettled, without indicating where they were being resettled from, and the number and area of assets and
land that were distributed or restored, without reporting on access or interim impacts (negative or positive).

3. A project that is designed to support social reintegration of a minority group in a post -conflict situation should
develop interventions that directly address the drivers of the group 's exclusion. In the case of Sri Lanka, the
Northern Recovery Project would have had to address the cultural and linguistic barriers faced by the returning
population.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No

Why? Yes, as a cluster assessment, including the Reawakening Project to inform the Conflict and Fragility in Non
Fragile and Conflict States Macro-Evaluation that is underway in IEG.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

ICR quality is rate Satisfactory with shortcomings. The ICR provided sufficient information to validate the contents of
the ICR. It included sufficient data on the quantitative targets set and met; a comprehensive assessment of the
economic rates of return on the main physical interventions supported by the project; audit findings on the project's
financial management; project and component costs etc. It did not explain why the objective was changed between
the financing agreement and the project paper and it underplayed the risks associated with the development
outcomes, especially with regard to the social reintegration of the resettled population.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
