                                    102223




Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

              Emergency Northern Recovery Project

                               Redacted Report


                                       Official Use Only


                                        December 2015
                                                                           Official Use Only


                            Statement of Use and Limitations

This Report was prepared by the World Bank Group (the WBG) Integrity Vice Presidency
(INT). It provides the findings of an INT administrative inquiry (the Investigation) into
allegations of corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and/or coercive practices, as defined by the
WBG for purposes of its own policies, rules and procedures (the WBG’s Framework
regarding Anti-corruption), in relation to the WBG-supported activities. The purpose of
the Investigation was to allow the WBG to determine if the WBG’s Framework regarding
Anti-corruption has been violated.

This Report is being shared to ensure that its recipients are aware of the results of the INT
Investigation. However, in view of the specific and limited purpose of the Investigation
underlying this Report, this Report should not be used as the sole basis for initiating any
administrative, criminal, or civil proceedings. Moreover, this Report should not be cited
or otherwise referred to in the course of any investigation, in any investigation reports, or
in any administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings.

This Report is provided without prejudice to the privileges and immunities conferred on
the institutions comprising the WBG and their officers and employees by their respective
constituent documents and any other applicable sources of law. The WBG reserves the
right to invoke its privileges and immunities, including at any time during the course of an
investigation or a subsequent judicial, administrative or other proceeding pursued in
connection with this matter. The WBG’s privileges and immunities cannot be waived
without the prior express written authorization of the WBG.




                                             1
                                                                           Official Use Only




                                   Executive Summary

This report provides the findings of an administrative inquiry by the World Bank Group
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) into allegations that Company A may have engaged in
misconduct in connection with a bidding process under the Emergency Northern Recovery
Project (the Project) in Sri Lanka.

Evidence indicates that Company A submitted false bank guarantees in connection with
six contracts under the Project. Specifically, Company A submitted six bank guarantees
with its bids for the six contracts, and three additional bank guarantees after being awarded
two of the six contracts. All nine guarantees were purportedly issued by a local bank.
However, evidence indicates that none of the guarantees were issued by the local bank and,
therefore, the guarantees were not genuine.

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company
A, which extends to any legal entity that Company A directly or indirectly controls.




                                             2
                                                                             Official Use Only

Background

The Emergency Northern Recovery Project (the Project) in Sri Lanka aimed to support the
government of Sri Lanka in its effort to return internally displaced persons to their original
place of residence in the Northern Province and restore their social and economic life in
order to create an enabling environment for resettlement. Company A submitted bids for
six contracts under the Project and ultimately was awarded two contracts.

Allegations

After Company A was awarded two Project contracts, Project officials contacted a local
bank (the Local Bank) to verify the authenticity of several bank guarantees submitted by
Company A, which purportedly were issued by the Local Bank. The Local Bank replied
that the documents were false. The Project officials cancelled Company A’s contract
awards and reported the issue to the World Bank Group Integrity Vice Presidency (INT).

Methodology

INT’s investigation consisted of a review of Project documents, as well as documents and
statements obtained from the Project officials and the Local Bank.

Findings

Evidence indicates that Company A submitted false bank guarantees in its bids for
six contracts under the Project.

The bidding documents for the six Project contracts required bidders to submit a bid
security with their bids. Accordingly, Company A submitted six bank guarantees,
purportedly issued by the Local Bank.

The bidding documents also required that any successful bidder that was awarded a
contract must submit a performance guarantee and, in some cases, an advance payment
guarantee. Accordingly, after being awarded two contracts, Company A submitted two
performance guarantees and one advance payment guarantee, all purportedly issued by the
Local Bank.

After the contract awards, but prior to contract signature, the Project officials contacted the
Local Bank to verify the authenticity of the nine bank guarantees submitted by Company
A. The Local Bank replied that the documents were false. The Project officials cancelled
Company A’s contract awards and reported the issue to INT.

During INT’s investigation, the Local Bank confirmed that it had not issued any of the nine
guarantees submitted by Company A, and that the guarantees were false. INT sent a letter
to Company A, requesting an explanation for the alleged misconduct. To date, Company
A has not responded to INT’s inquiry.




                                              3
                                                                    Official Use Only


Follow Up Action by the World Bank

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Company
A, which extends to any legal entity that Company A directly or indirectly controls.




                                         4
