Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4
Report No. 9568
PROJECT COMPLETION r.EPORT
RINGDOI4 OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
(LOAN 2664-MOR)
MAY 17, 1991
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Evolution of the Exchange Rate
At Appraisal          May  1985  US$   = DH 10.0
Period average           1986     USS 1 a DH  9.1
1987     USS 1 = DR  8.3
1988     US$ 1 - DH  8.2
1989     USS 1 = Du  8.5
1990     US$ 1 a DR  8.2



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A,
Office if Dw*Ct0V.C.laI
0-rai~n Evahatrn
May 17, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESrDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Reports  KINGDOM OF MOROCCO -
Education Sector Reform Program - (Loan 2664-MgRI
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Kingdom of Morocco - Education Sector Reform
Program (Loan 2664-MOR)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office, with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
(LOAN 2664-MORI
Table of Contentd
Page No.
Ereface   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evaluation Summary    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      iii
I.  PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Program Identification and Key Information  . . . .    . . . .       1
B.  Socioeconomic Background  ... .  .  .  .   .  .                      1
C.  Objectives and Description of the Program . . . . . . . . . .        2
D.  Program Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
E. Program Execution ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  3
F. Major Results of the Program  ... .  .  .    .   .                    4
G.  Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
H.  Borrower and Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       10
I.  Technical Assistance  ... .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  10
J.  Documentation and Data Relating to the Program  . . . . . . .       10
1I.  PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . ..11
III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.  Related Bank Loans    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
B. Program Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        18
C.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements . . . . . . . .       18
D.  Program Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
E. Program Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
P. Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
G. Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION. SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
(LOAN 2664-MOR:
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Educat .on Sector Reform
Program in Morocco, for which Loan 2664-MOR in the Amount of US$150 million was
approved on March 20, 1986. The loan was closed on December 31, 1989, one year
behind schedule. The last payment was made on March 28, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Operations Division, Country Department II of the Europe, Middle East & North
Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a mission in July 1990, and is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



- Liii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
ILOAN 2664-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.    The loan supported the implementation of the first two-year phase of the
Government's education sector reform program, aimed at making the provision of
education more equitable, more cost-effective, and more consistent with the
country's medium-term development needs.   It also aimed at developing and
implementing a number of pedagogical measures to improve the quality of education
whxle extending the coverage of basic education and controlling the growth of
education expenditures.
Program Execution
2.    On the recommendation of the first supervision mission (October 1986), the
Bank postponed the second tranche release by six months. Reasonable progress was
made in increasing enrollments in primary (grades 1-5) and upper basic (grades
6-9) cycles, slowing down access to secondary (grades 10-12) and higher
education, reducing unit recurrent costs, and applying stricter eligibility
criteria in awarding university fellowships. But the school construction program
was behind schedule (mainly because of delayed payments by Ministry of Finance)
and only one of the thirteen studies aimed at developing programs to improve the
education system had been started. By mid 1987, these two components had made
sufficient progress for the Bank to release the second tranche. one may question
the validity of using construction performance as a tranche release condition in
a loan which finances construction.
3.    In the summer of 1987, however, the baccalaureate system was reorganized,
granting in an exceptional fall session the baccalaureate to a large number of
students who had failed in June, which resulted in a 21% increase in new entrants
to university over the previous year, well above the 2% specified in the Loan
Agreement. Pending agreement on policy issues in higher education, the Bank
shelved the preparation of a second education sector loan, and focussed on
strengthening primary education.   The political determination to implement
difficult measures, observed during program preparation, had considerably faded
and the remaining program execution centered on monitoring enrollment targets and
implementing the school construction program. The loan closed one year late to
allow for full disbursement.



- iv -
Results
4.    Construction and eqipment:    Although the number of primary and upper
basic schools built was substantially lower than planned, they represent a major
step towards extending education opportunitieo in previously underserved, mostly
rural (f:- primary) and periurban (for upper basic) areas.  The scaled down
program reflects the implementation and supervision difficulties that a large-
scale construction program in remote, rural, areas entails, as well as the
decision by the Ministry of Education to slow down construction in light of
lower-than-anticipated primary enrollments.
5.    Oualitative and ouantitative:  The ESRP had two main objectives: improve
equity of education and control growth of education costs. Eauitv improvement
was to be attained by increasing the share of education resourceL allocated to
basic education and reducing the budget share of secondary and higher education -
thus allowing for increased basic enrollments and slower growth in secondary and
higher enrollments. By the end of the ESRP implementation, new entrants to Grade
1 were 16% lower than projected, new entrants to university were 30% higher than
projected, upper basic and secondary enrollments were on target.   The ESRP
rightly identified the primary and higher education cycles as the problem areas
in the sector. It failed, however, to properly assess the demand determinants
for primary education in rural areas and the political and social pressures from
urban populations for higher education. The latter made it impossible to shift
additional budgetary allocations to basic education, although it cannot be
inferred that investment levels were inadequate to promote growth in primary
enrollments. The ESr? did not adequately assess the extent to which rural
populations required specific measures to generate effective demand and tailor
services accordingly. Efforts concentrated essentially on building schools, with
little attention to complementary programs to increase participation.   In
addition, tha absence of post-primary education in most rural regions may have
worked as a disincentive for parents to even consider primary education for their
children.
6.    The second objective was to control growth of education costs through
increased efficiency in terms of student flows, reduction of unit recurrent
costs, introduction of cost-recovery measures in higher education, and
encouragement of private-sector participation. Overall, promotion rates for the
nine-year basic education cycle made modest gains. Unit recurrent costs for
primary education (of which 95% are salary-related) were 43% higher than
projected, reflecting the expansion into rural areas with unavoidable lower
student:teacher ratio as well as lower-than-anticipated enrollments.   Unit
recurrent costs in higher education were on target, with a 23% decrease over the
base year (1985/86), reflecting the Government's effort to curtail costs by
slowing down recruitment of new teachers, increasing teaching hours, while
enrollments were growing annually by 10.5%.   Little was put into place to
encourage private participation and introduce cost-recovery measures.
7.    The ESRP alvo aimed at improving employment orientation of schooling at all
levels and strengthening and expanding vocational training. Little was done in
that respect. A few inspectors were trained as career counselors and assigned



to middle and secondary schools. The vocational training system was not able to
absorb a larger share of school leavers, for two reasons: the system did not grow
as anticipated and most vocatiotial training centers are in urban areas, whereas
most school leavers are in rural areas (particularly true for students leaving
the school system before completing Grade 9).
Proiect Sustainabilitv
8.    The schools built allow access to basic education to a growing number of
children from areas previously not or poorly served.  Initial modest efforts
towards costs-savings measures in higher education laid the foundation for
further reforms. Finally, the construction management organization put in place
at the end of the program has shown substantial improvements in school
construction  supervision  in later operations.    However,  the ESRP proved
inherently unsustainable, to the extent that the desired restructuring away from
secondary and tertiary spending was ultimately reversed through social demand.
Conclusions and Lessons
9.    The design of the program was, with hindsight, overly ambitious.   The
mechanical aspects of monitoring enrollment growth, student flows and other
education indicators was well mastered by the Borrower's implementing team and
by Bank staff.   The Government and the Bank, however, underestimated the
difficulty of sustaining political commitment to implement potentially volatile
measures such as the drastic reduction of admission to university, in a
francophone culture where the baccalaureate functions both as a secondary school
completion certificate and admission to higher education.  In spite of these
shortcomings, the ESRP was successful in expanding primary education into rural
areas (albeit to a lesser degree than planned). Current efforts to identify
determinants of demand for primary education from rural populations should help
maximize investments made under the ESRP. In addition, continued policy dialogue
on higher education is leading to the preparation of a proposed Higher Education
Funding Reform Project, which will further the initial effort at introducing
cost-recovery measures and increase university autonomy and privatization of
investments and programs.   Finally, the Borrower and the Bank have come to
realize that a large number of studies cannot be undertaken adequately at the
same time, and the latest operation (Rural Basic Education Development Project)
only supports two studies.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RINGDOM OF MOROCCO
ALr:TION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
SLOAN 2664-MORI
I.  PROGRAM REVIEW FRO  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proarana Identificatlon and Xev Information
Project Name:            Education Sector Reform Program
Loan No.:                 2664-MOR
Borrower:                Kingdom of Morocco
Sector:                  Education
Sub-sectors:             Basic Education
Secondary Education
Higher Education
Amount of loan:           US$150 million
Board Approval:          March 1986
Effective date:           September 1986
Original closing date:   December 31, 1988
Actual closing date:     December 31, 189 (The loan account was
closed on March 28, 1990 to permit all
disbursements for committed expenditures.)
B.    Socioeconomic Background
1.    The Education Sector Reform Program (ESRP) was a key element of the
Government's strategy for economic reatructuring and containment of public
expenditures in the first half of the b0.. The large public investment program
launched in the 70s (financed initially by a phosphate boom which subsided
sha:-ply in the late 70s), a rapidly rising petroleum import bill, and increased
defense expenditures in the Western Sahara resulted in sharp increases in the
treasury deficit.   Morocco resorted to substantial  foreign borrowings to
alleviate balance of payments pressures.   By 1983, the Government's room to
maneuver was becoming very restricTL.d, and the country negotiated a Standby
Agreement witl. the IMF supporting a stabilization program which included severe
budgetary restraints.
2.    The education sector had greatly benefit-d from the expansion of the late
70s-early 80s: the share of tho Government's buoit (investment and recurrent)
allocated to education (primary, secondary and highei.- had increased from around
14% in the late 70s to around 19% in the early 80s. ' Primary and secondary
enrollments were increasing annually by close to 6% a.11 higher education
enrollments by about 14%.                                    _>
3.    The country's financial constraints made it clear that further growth in
the education system could only be made in the context of concerted efforts to
control education costs, particularly in higher education, and to improve the



-2-
efficiency of use of education resources at every level. More specifically, the
new austerity was imposing severe cuts in capital outlays as well as restrictions
on civil service recruitment and salary increases, the latter measures affecting
particularly the education *ector, the largest user of civil service manpower
(about 40% of total).
C.   Objectives and Description of tho Proaram
4.    The loan supported the implementation of the first two-year phase of the
Government's Education Sector Reform Program.  The objectives of the reform
program were to make the provision of education more equitable, more cost-
effective, and more consistent with the countryIs medium-term development needs.
It would do this through three major policy changes:
(a) it would improve equity of education by increasing the share of education
resources devoted to basic education (grades 1 through 9), and slowing the
growth of education at other levels, with a major increase in the number
of student entering and completing basic education;
(b) it would control the growth of education costs through increased
educational efficiency in terms of improved student flows, reduction of
unit costs, introduction of cost recovery measures, and encouragement of
private-sector participation; and
(c) it would attempt to meet the needs of the economy and of school leavers
through improved employment orientation of schooling at all levels and
strengthening and expansion of vocational training.
At the same time, it aimed at supporting the Government's effort to develop and
implement a number of pedagogical measures to improve the quality of education
programs while extending the coverage of basic education and controlling the
growth of education expenditures.
S.    The loan would finance a program of construction and equipping of schools,
teacher training, foreign fellowships and studies. It would be made available
for disbursement in two tranches of $75 million each: the first tranche at loan
effectiveness, the second tranche upon confirmation, through an interim review,
of satisfactory rarformance - assessed on the basis of a number of indicators -to
be conducted by December 31, 1986.
D.   Program Desian and organization
6.    Discussions with the Government on the content of the education sector
reform were initiated following the October 1981 Education and Training Sector
Survey. The specific findings and recommendations of that survey were discussed
with the Government first in the context of the 1981-85 Economic Plan Review,
then in the context of the conditions of the 1983 IMF Standby Agreement.
Recommendations pertaining to limitation of teacher recruitment and reduced
levels of fellowships and teacher training stipends were included among the
conditions agreed with the IMF for the 1983 Standby. An October 1983 education
sector mission discassed additional reform measures with the Ministry of



-3-
Education (MOE) and examined with the Min'stry of Finance (HOF) the impact of the
proposed reform program upon short-term investment requirementa in terms of
budgetary commitments and expenditures. The letter activity was conducted in the
context of the Government/Bank joint public investment review.  A March 1984
mission reached agreement with the MOE on the objectives and key measures of the
education reform. Subsequent discussions focussed on the budgetary and political
feasibility and phasing of the proposed refon.i program. P;.ilowing that mission,
the educatton reform proposals were incorporated into a highly disaggregated
projection model of enrollments, teaching inputs, and associated investment and
recurrent expenditure requirements. This model, in its mechanical transparency,
was to become the driving force for the measures to be implemented and
overshadowed the taxing political and social issues which would arise from the
introduction of many of these measures. Discussions on the content and costs of
the reform program were held in October and December 1984 with the various
concerned  ministries.    Following  these  discussions,  the  projected  cost
implications of the reform program were refined and confirmed with the Government
during the April/May 1985 appraisal mission.   The support of all ministries
involved in the proposed reform was confirmed, and the reform program was
presented to and endorsed by the Parliament.
7.    The reform program constituted a fundamental reorientation of national
education goals away from a vertical system - in which schooling at each level
concentrated on preparing students to the next level up to university graduates -
toward a more equitable, broad-based schooling system.   The Government was
increasingly aware that :ts past strategy focussed on a vertical education
atructure  was not serving the country's basic educationul needs.  The recent
emergence of unemployment among university graduates, together with the prospect
of uncontrolled education expenditures to maintain such a system in the futura,
led the Government to alter its education strategy.
S.    Program Execution
8.    From the beginning, the program implementation, and its supervision, seem
to have been driven by the mechanics of the projections model. Progress was
assessed on the basis of performance indicators (essentially enrollment numbers
and promotion rates) and as long as observed results were generally in line with
projections, little concarn was raised over the sustainability of political will
to implement arduous measures. On the recommendation of the first supervision
mission, the Bank postponed the scheduled date of second tranche release from
January 1 to June 1, 1987: although reasonable progress was made in increasing
enrollments in primary and upper basic cycles, slowing down access to secondary
and higher education, reducing unit recurrenst costs, and applying stricter
eligibility criteria in awarding fellowships to university students, progress on
the school construction program was slower than anticipated - )_he result, mainly,
of slow payments by MOF - and all but one of the thirteen (later to be regrouped
into twelve) studies aimed at developing programs to improve the education system
(see para. 24) had yet to be started. By July, the school construction program
and the studies had made sufficient progress to warrant release of the second
tranche, which the Bank did in September (by which time the first tranche was
fully disbursed). One may question, however, the validity of using construction
performance as a tranche release condition in a loan which finances construction.



9.    In the summer of 1987, however,  au a result of strong student prcsure,
the baccalaureate system was reorganized, granting, in an exceptional fall
session, the baccalaureate to a large number of students who had failed in June,
which resulted in a 25% estimated increase (later assessed at 21%) in now
entrants to university in October 1987, in clear violation of the 2% agreed in
the Loan Agreement. Pending agreement on policy issues in higher education, the
Bank shelved the preparation of a second education sector loan, uncertain of the
viability of the sector-wide policy framework which had underlined the E8RP. (The
components aimed at generalizing basic education through increased primary
enrollments - still a Government priority - were reorganized into the FY89 Rural
Primary Education Project, a regular investment loan of more modest size).
Discussions on reducing higher education funding pressures continued however on
the basis of a Bank subsector study, which proposed a number of possible cost-
saing and cost-recovery moesures, some of which are included in the proposed
FY93 Higher Education Funding Reform Project.
10.   The remaining program implementation was uneventful.  The Government's
initial commitment and eagerness to imploment difficult measures had cons? lerably
waned and supervision focussed on assessing progress of the school conertuction
program, the studies, and disbursements. The closing date was extended from
December 1988 to December 1989 to allow for full loan utilization: disbursements
had lagged due mainly to delays in assembling documentation for teacher training
expenditures.
F.    Maior Results of the Program
construction and eaui=ment results
11.   3809 classrooms, 470 canteens, and 1827 housing facilities for primary
education, and 1123 upper basic classrooms were built and equipped under the
ESRP. Although this is significantly less than the overly optimistic numbers
projected at appraisal (8934 primary classrooms, 1075 canteens, 3227 housing
facilities, and 6871 upper basic classrooms), it represents a major step towards
extending education opportunities in previously underserved, mostly rural, areas,
where most of the primary school construction effort was concentrated.  The
smaller than planned construction program resulted mainly irom two factors.
Although the MOE had previously implemented school construction programs of
similar scope to the one planned under the ESRP, these programs had been
essentially targeted to urban areas. By venturing on a large scale into remote,
rural areas, the MOE was faced with implementation and supervision difficulties
not encountered before. In addition, in light of lower-than-projected primary
enrollments, the MOE rightly scaled down its school construction program to
maximize utilization of existing infrastructures.
12.   The prefabricated structures used for primary education offered the dual
advantage of being about half the price of masonry and being built in about 3
months (as opposed to 18 months for masonry).  Qualitatively, however, they
present a number of flaws: no roof insulation, resulting in very hot interiors
in the spring and fall, cold air currents in the winter months, and little noise
reduction between adjacent spaces; insufficient window areas, resulting in dark
rooms (most schools do not have electricity); inadequate reinforcement of the



-5-
concrete slabs-on-grade, resulting in cracks in slabs and walls, which weaken the
structures, potentially a health hazard, particularly  in earthquake-prone
regions.
13.  Many of the construction flaws could have been avoided with adequate
supervision. The ESRP was the first operation for which the MOE turned over the
execution-phase responsibilities to its regional delegations, poorly staffed in
technical expertise to oversee a substantial construction program. In addition,
lack of coordination resulted in many schools being equipped late or
insufficiently. The MOE'. new (1988) construction management organization has
markedly improved: at headquarters, technical staff has been hired and trained,
and regional delegations are also being strengthened.
Oualitative and quantitative results
14.   One of the main objectives of the ESRP was to imorove ecuity of education
by increasing the share of education resources devoted to basic education, which
should result in growing basic education enrollments and slower growth of
secondary and higher education enrollments. The share of MOE's investment budget
allocated to primary and secondary education - budget documents still reflect the
old categorization system of primary (grades 1-5) and secondary (grades 6-12)
cycles, and do not allow for easy disaggregation between upper basic (grades 6-9)
and secondary (grades 10-12) cycles - went from 84% in 1984 to 76% in 1987 to 73%
in 1990. The share of MOE's recurrent budget allocated to primary and secondary
has remained fairly constant at around 83%. The relevant education indicators
for 1987/88 (last year of ESRP) behaved as follows, when compared to the base
year (1984/85) and to targets:
-    new entrants to Grade 1 had increased by 14% 1 (16% less than projected);
-    primary enrollments had gone down by 7% 2 and were 14% less than projected;
-    the promotion rate from grade 5 to grade 6 was 4% higher than projected;
-    upper basic enrollments were 1% more than projected;
-    secondary enrollments were right on target;
-    new entrants to higher education were 30% higher than planned; and
-    higher education enrollments were 12% higher than planned.
15.   The indicators clearly show that the main areas of concern in the education
system are primary and higher education. The upper basic and secondary cycles
depend largely from movement in the primary cycle and the ESRP's three-year
horizon was too short to reflect the impact of slower primary enrollments on the
1/ In 1984/85, 6-year-olds were not allowed to enter Grade 1 (legal entry
age is 7, although 6-year-olds account for about 20% of new enrollments).  In
1983/84, 55000 6-year-olds had been admitted to Grade 1, resulting in a shrunk
pool of 7-year-olds the year after. To correct for this, a three-year average
(1983/84 - 1985/86) was used as base year.
2/ Over the 1983/84 - 1985/86 three-year average, to smooth out the dip in
Grade 1 enrollments explained above.



-6-
upper basic and secondary cycles. The ESRP had rightly identified the problem
areas in education.   It failed, however, to properly assess two forceful
elements: the demand determinants for primary education in rural areas and the
political and social pressures driving demand for higher education.
16.   It was commonly assumed among Government circles that low enrollments
resulted from insufficient infrastructures and that additional investment
resources to basic education would generate growth in enrollment rates.
Admittedly, the share of the education investment budget allocated to basic
education shrank during implementaticn of the ESRP - instead of increasing as
planned - and shrank even further up to 1990. It is not clear, however, that the
absolute level of investments (which grew annually by 2.5% in real terms) was
insufficient to give a new impetus to enrollments. The education system failed
to recognize to what extent rural populations required specific measures to
generate effective demand and tailor services accordingly. Efforts concentrated
mainly on building schools closer to rural settlements, undoubtedly a strong
contributing factor to initial enrollments, albeit at rising unit costs. These
efforts, however, were not complemented by programs specifically designed to
increase participation: awareness campaigns to promote the direct and indirect
benefits of education, particularly for girls, were only started in 1989;
availability of affordable educational materials and textbooks remained sporadic;
selection criteria for student teachers gave no weight to readiness to serve in
rural areas, and the lack of career or housing incentives for such assignments
resulted in excessive teacher turnover; only a small proportion of rural schools
had canteens providing a free meal, and even fewer had safe water, sanitation or
electricity; and the higher opportunity cost of child labor at home or in the
fields was not adequately factored into school schedules and curricula.
17.   In addition, post-primary education was (and still is) all but inexistent
in rural areas, for which the closest upper basic school is at least 30 miles
away (and over 100 miles away for many), and involves costs and risks, and a
distant and uncertain labor market payoff. In the home vicinity, there are few
if any integrated role-models of successful school graduates beyond the primary
level, especially for females, to help balance these disincentives. In sum, when
the whole education and career system is seen as a loaded lottery, it is hardly
surprising that rural parents' perception of the returns to basic education
diverge from the longer-term returns to society, and therefore that primary
attendance can lag behind available places.
18.   Strong social pressure from urban populations for secondary and higher
education compressed the share of MOE's investment budget allocated to basic
education. The ESRP, while attempting to curtail growth of the higher cycles of
education to permit more rapid growth at the base, underestimated the political
threat of such a pressure. Although the share of education investment budget
going to higher education grew instead of shrinking as planned, the Government
noticeably curtailed all new investments. Such a measure, when combined with
another austerity measure such as limiting new entrants to university were
imposing strict constraints while not offering any changes to   the demand
structure. Limiting annual growth of new enrollments to university to 2% was
unrealistic: during the first half of the 80s, passing rates within the secondary
cycle had slightly improved; the baccalaureate passing rate remained fairly



-7-
constant; secondary enrollments increased annually by about 8%; higher education
enrollments increased by about 9%; new enrollments in higher education had grown
at the average annual rate of 13% over the eight preceding years (as quoted in
the SAR).   In addition, it was culturally unfeasible to introduce an education
model inspired from Anglo-saxon tradition, which advocated delinking secondary
school completion from entrance to university, in an education system based on
francophone tradition where the baccalaureate functions both to a secondary
school completion certificate and admission to higher education. Reliance on the
political commitment expressed by one person (albeit the then Minister of
Education) proved fragile. The absence of structural changes to demand patterns
made it impossible to gain Government's support and commitment in implementing
these measures. The lack of ownership to these two ideas (drastic reduction of
new entrants to university and changing the purpose of the baccalaureate) became
quite clear once the reform advocate left the ministry. Even allowing for recent
rulings restricting access to university for civil servants, the country could
not afford such drastic reductions in higher education without creating a
volatile situation.
19.   A second important objective of the ESRP was to control the crowth of
education costs through increased efficiency in terms of improved student flows,
reduction of unit recurrent costs, introduction of cost-recovery measures in
higher education,  and encouragement of private-sector participation.   The
relevant indicators behaved as follows between 1984/85 and 1987/88:
-    promotion rates for 7rades 1 to 4 improved on average by about 2.5 points
(from 75% to 77.5%);
-    promotion rate from grade 5 (end of primary cycle) to grade 6 increased by
about 13 points (from 49% to 62.2%);
-    promotion rate from grade 6 to grade 7 decreased by 7 points (from 86.4%
to 79.5%);
-    promotion rate for grades 8 and 9 remained fairly constant;
-    unit recurrent costs for primary cycle increased by 17% (and were 43%
higher than projected);
-    unit recurrent costs !or higher education decreased by 23% (and were only
4% higher than projected);
20.   Overall, promotion rates for the nine-year basic education cycle made
modest gains. The substantial improvement in passing rate at the end of the
primary cycle was mostly wiped out by an increase in dropout rate in grade 6
(from 4.2% to 9.8%). Two reasons can be advanced: a more lenient passing rate
in grade 5 allowed the promotion of students who were not academically prepared
or had the necessary maturity to face the more rigorous structure of upper basic
schools. In addition, in view of the high concentration of upper basic schools
in urban areas, newly promoted students from disadvantaged and rural areas found
it increasingly difficult to bear the costs and logistics of attending urban
schools.
21.   Unit recurrent costs for primary education (of which 95% are salary-
related) reflect the expansion into rural areas with unavoidable lower
student:teacher ratio as well as lower-than-anticipated enrollments.   The
reduction in higher education unit cost resulted from enrollments growing yearly



by   10.5% in the 1984/85 - 1987/88 period while the recurrent budget grew
annually by  1% in real terms, reflecting the Government's determined effort to
curtail costs by slowing down recruitment of new teachers and by increasing
minimum teaching workload by about 20%.
22.     Some cost-saving measures were put in place in higher education: (i) some
of the eligibility criteria agreed at appraisal for awarding university
fellowships were introduced, and although the number of fellowships grow at about
the same pace as enrollments, an increasing number of them were partial
fellowships (25%, 50%, or 75%); (ii) access to university was sharply restricted
for civil servants; (iii) student teachers' allowances were reduced from quasi-
salaries to levels more in line with university students' fellowships. Little
was done regarding the last two measures aimed at controlling the growth of
education costs: no specific plan was introduced to encourage private
participation in higher education; and no cost-recovery mechanisms were
introduced in higher education.
23.   The ESRP also aimed at improving employment orientation of schooling at all
levels and strengthening and expanding vocational training. Little was done in
that respect. A few inspectors were trained as orientation advisors and assigned
to middle and secondary schools. The vocational training system was not able to
absorb a larger share of school leavers, for two reasons: the system did not grow
as anticipated and most vocational training centers are in urban areas, whereas
most school leavers are in rural areas (particularly true for students leaving
the school system before completing Grade 9).
24.   Thirteen studies were included in the ESRP to develop policies, programs,
and guidelines with the following objectives (as listed in Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement):
(1) reduce the costs of construction of secondary schools;
(2) periodic maintenance of school facilities;
(3) rationalize the management of primary and secondary schools and enhance
the efficient provision of teaching services in such schools;
(4) diagnostic and standardized achievement testing of primary and secondary
school students;
(5) remedial instruction for primary and secondary students with learning
difficulties;
(6) multi-grade instruction in rural primary schools;
(7) career guidance counselling for secondary school students;
(8)  training to upgrade the technical skills o' teachers and other education
staff;
(9)  improve the coherence between secondary school and university curricula;
(10)  diversify university curricula based on a credit-hour system;
(11)  provide educational materials to university libraries and laboratories;
(12)  periodic maintenance of university facilities;
(13)  identify, evaluate and recommend: (i) incentives designed to encourage the
development of adequate primary and secondary private schools; and
(ii) systems of monitoring and supervision by MOE of the education
provided in private schools.



-9-
The objectives listed above were regrouped under eleven studies during
implementation: (1) and (2) became one study, (4) was divided into two studies,
(11) and (12) were canceled, and a new study on manpower planning was added,
bringing the total number of studies to twelve.  It is unclear from project
documents available if the Bank formally agreed to these changes or if they
simply reflect thie evolution of objectives over time. Of the twelve studies,
only one was fully completed (multi-grade teaching) and some of its
recommendations have been introduced on a very small scale. Interim reporte for
seven other studies were prepared numbers (3),(7),(8),(9),(l0),(13) and the
manpower planning study). Only very preliminary progress reports were produced
for the remaining four studies (numbers (1/2),(4a),(4b),(5)J. The objectives
of these studies are still very relevant and some of these issues are being dealt
with under subsequent operations.  Overall, the results of the studies were
disappointing. To a large extent, this can be explained by the fact that all the
studies were managed by MOE staff, subcontracted by an intermediary institution.
The Government felt that adequate expertise existed in the country to carry out
these studies and was reluctant to incur large expenses by hiring foreign
consultants. As it turns out, the studies cost about $2 million (well above the
cost of hiring foreign expertise) and, although the Borrower had rightly
identified qualified local experts , it overestimated the availability of civil
servants to carry out additional tasks (even if remunerated).
25. Morocco, assisted by the Bank and the African Development Bank, has
embarked on a series of operations aimed at redressing the education system: the
FY89 Rural Primary Education Project focuses on increasing access and
participation in rural areas through a joint program of school construction and
targeted measures to promote demand, including textbook programs, awareness
campaigns targeted on female education, housing and recruitment incentives, and
improvements in school food, water and sanitation conditions.   In addition,
sector work is underway designed to quantify school and home-environment
constraints to primary school attendance in rural areas, especially for girls.
The FY91 Rural Basic Education Development Project, recently approved by the
Board, aims at increasing access and participation to upper basic education in
rural areas, thus providing the missing link between primary education and labor
market opportunities. Finally, the proposed FY93 Higher Education Funding Reform
Project, by promoting cost-recovery mechanisms and the expansion of private
education, should lessen the risk of insufficient funding for basic education by
creating an outlet for excess demand for higher levels.
C. Program Sustainabilitv.
26. The schools built allow access to basic education to an ever growing number
of children from areas previously not or poorly served with schools, particularly
in the case of primary schools in rural areas. The recent effort in identifying
determinants of demand for education from rural populations should enable better
utilization of these investments. The initial timid effort toward cost-saving
measures in higher education laid down the foundation for further reforms which
will be introduced under the proposed FY93 Higher Education Funding Reform
Project. Finally, the construction management organization put in place in the
MOE since 1988 has already shown definite improvements in the supervision of



- 10 -
large school construction programs and is still being improved, which should
facilitate implementation of future operations.
H.    Borrower and Bank Performance.
27.   The Borrower can be credited with courage and determination in trying to
introduce potentially volatile policy measures. But the Borrower and the Bank,
however, can both be faulted for excessive optimism in underestimating the
increasing political and social cost of sustaining the implementation of such
measures, which led to a disagreement on policy issues in higher education. Both
parties can also be faulted for assigning (and allowing) responsibility of the
studies to MOE staff, whose results were costly and unsatisfactory.
I.    Technical assistance.
28.   The Government felt confident that the studies could be carried out by
local task forces, under the coordination of the CNCPRST (Centre national de
coordination et de planification de la recherche scientifique et technique). All
task forces, however, were headed by MOE staff from central administration,
universities, high schools and regional delegations. This arrangement did not
allow for new perspectives and inhibited impartial assessment. In addition, it
overburdened already stretched civil servants.  When disputes over payments
arose, enthusiasm disappeared quickly and most studies remained unfinished. In
retrospect, the $2 million spent on this exercise bought little new insight in
the problem areas of the education system.
J.    Documentation and Data Relating to the Program.
29.   The program was implemented on the basis of the usual documents:  Loan
Agreement, Appraisal Report, and President's Report.  Information needed for
preparation of this Project Completion Report was available from the MOE's DP and
from Bank files. The supervision reports focused heavily on the physical and
financial aspects of the program - construction, equipment delivery,
disbursements and audit reports - and on education monitoring indicators. They
remained fairly silent on the policy discussions which must have taken place.



II.  PROGRAM REIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.    Context of the reform
1.    The  Moroccan  Government's  efforts  in  the  education  sector  since
independence have focused on the expansion of school capacity at all education
levels, the Moroccanization of teaching staff and the development of new programs
to keep pace with the country's socioeconomic development. Despite the many
successive gains at all education levels, basic schooling is still inaccessible
to a large proportion of the country's school-age population. Low enrollments
are due primarily to the shortage of school facilities, particularly in the rural
areas.  The scattered nature of the population in low-density areas and the
practice of the Ministry of Education to provide one classroom for every level
means that a significant proportion of school capacity is inevitably
underutilized.   The enrollment of girls is still well below that of boys,
particularly in the rural areas. Although the establishment of separate classes
for boys and girls might help to break down the reticence of parents about
sending their daughters to school, the cost would be prohibitive because of the
very small numbers of students per class. The alternative, which consists in
stepping up the hiring of female teachers for the rural schools, is positively
correlated with female enrollments, but the assigning o,f female teachers to rural
schools is constrained by the shortage of suitable housing close by.   In
addition, one of the most serious problems facing the education system in Morocco
is its poor internal efficiency at all levels, as evidenced by the heavy losses
caused by the high dropout rate, when educational resources are limited.
2.    With respect to public spending on education, the desire to complete higher
education has until now been fanned by civil service hiring policies, which give
priority to secondary school and university graduates.   Efforts to meet the
demand for access to higher education have consequently resulted in a substantial
increase in public spending. From an economic standpoint, the expansion of basic
schooling is a prerequisite for improving labor productivity, whether that
instruction leads to vocational training, academic education or directly to the
job market. The program therefore aims essentially to foster the development of
education services that are more equitable, more efficient and better suited to
community development.
3.    The program is thus expected to help: (i) increase the share of education
funds allocated to basic schooling; (ii) improve the internal efficiency of the
system and ensure that education is oriented towards all levels of employment;
and (iii) monitor public spending on education through lower unit costs and cost-
sharing achieved by encouraging private education.
4.    Although the effects of the reform will be felt only in the long run and
certain ripple effects on living standards and the social development of the
community (literacy, hygiene, demographics, etc.) cannot yet be quantified, this
report seeks to make a selective analysis of the impact that can be expected from
the program, comparing expectations with actual achievements. The analysis is
based strictly on the available data.



- 12 -
II.   Program imnlementation
Quantitative _asects
S.    Physical implementation:  At the primary level, the construction of 3,369
classrooms, 1,009 canteens, 1,827 housing units and 822 water reservoirs has
paved the way for expanding access to the first cycle of bauic education,
particularly in the marginal outlying regions.  The importance given to the
construction of water reservoirs highlights the priority placed by the Government
on increasing the demand for education in communities lacking basic
infrastructure. However, despite plans to use prefabricated materials to ensure
speedy construction, delays in execution have been as much as 10 months. These
slippages in the implementation schedule are essentially attributable to the
monopoly of two firms on this type of construction and to the cumbersome red tape
involved in procurement.   In order to enhance the potential for progress in
science and technology, major importance was plat-ed on providing special
equipment to the recently established acad6mies, secondary schools and teacher
training school
6 .   Monitorina of costs: Besides a reduction in student teacher (pr6salalres)
salaries, teacher training courses were revised and replaced by more economic
formulae.   Primary teachers have two training options,  one requiring the
baccalaurdat with one year of training, and the other calling for a licence plus
one year of training. At that level, training is in a paradoxical position; in
response to the concern about absorbing a number of unemployed university
graduates, teachers with licences have access to a higher pay scale.  Lower
secondary teachers are recruited from among graduates of the first cycle of
university (students who have their DEUG) and put through a year of training.
For secondary teachers, the one-year training cycle is offered to students with
licences. In the interests of cost-sharing, efforts are continuing to encourage
private education. The investment code is currently pending approval. Although
private education is not very widespread, encouragement of its development is
particularly apparent for the first cycle of basic schooling, where the share of
private education increased from 3% in 1986 to 4% in 1989.   For secondary
education, as private education essentially amounts to an "emergency exit" for
those excluded from the public system, parents' enthusiasm about giving their
children a second chance to graduate no longer seems to be justified,
particularly in view of the fact that the economic value of the high school
diploma has been eroded.   The share of private education at that level
accordingly declined from 6% to 3% between 1986 and 1989.  According to school
construction officials, the usual building standards have remained unchanged, and
more efficient design and construction may offer substantial savings in capital
outlays.
Pedaaoaic aspects
7.    Access to basic education: The new measures seem to be paying off in terms
of expanding access to basic education. The impact of the measures has been
significant quantitatively in terms of enrollments. Between 1984-85 and 1989-90
the first-year new intake rate increased to 5.6%, as against the target of 6.1%.
The promotion rate at the end of the fifth grade improved significantly, up from



- 13 -
37.9% prior to the reform to 73%1, compatible with the 87% target set for 1993.
Forecasts of the number of students completing the nine-year basic education
program (primary and lower secondary education) have been exceeded; 293,667
students were enrolled in the ninth year in 1989/90, compared to the projection
of 289,571, by virtue of improvements in bottlenecks upstream and the reduction
downstream in the proportion of students streamed for secondary education.
8.    Slowdown in eecondarv education:   The reform objectives provide for a
scaling-down of secondary education, with a view to making basic schooling
accessible to all, and restricti:,g access to further education to those students
with the best scholastic per.urmance. In terms of numbers, the negative rate of
increase at this level of education between 1984-85 and 1989-90 is significant:
during that period enrollments remained almost constant, declining by -0.3%, as
compared to the increase of 1.5% targeted by the reform. In view of this more
rigorous selection beyond basic education (40% intake of students into secondary
education), providing access to vocational training should be the cornerstone of
any further action.
9.    To that end, the feasibility of incorporating an integrated vocational
training stream within the school system has been the subject of a study in close
collaboration with vocational training officials.   While recognizing the
relevance of such a stream, those officials are reluctant to become involved in
such an operation, claiming tha'- such a move would be premature in view of
technical deficiencies (shortage of guidance counsellors) and psychological
blocks (resistance to change) of the training departments.    While partially
founded, the constraints claimed by the training departments do not represent
insurmountable obstacles to the introduction of the procedure proposed.  The
shortage of guidance counsellors attached to the training departments by no means
precludes the project in that it has been proposed to offset this problem by
pooling all the human resources available both in the Ministry of Education and
the other departments involved.
10.   Fears concerning the imbalance between the students opting for vocational
training and the capacity of the vocational training centers involved are not
insurmountable either, since the reform provides for coordination at the school
mapping stage to manage student overflows and deficits. Training provided under
contracts with employers can be marginal at best.   Such contracts do not
necessarily mean that the streaming procedure cannot be followed when the
candidates are recruited for such training.   In light of the desire of the
training departments not to lose control over the selection/ guidance of
candidates for vocational training, the solution currently being developed
consists of allowing the training departments all the leeway they need to
organize the selection and decide unilaterally on the streaming of the candidates
selected from among students in the general education system. Such streaming is
definitely not favored by the training departments.   Only a policy decision
a.pplicable across the board will ensure students some kind of organized
transition between general education and vocational training.
I/ Public + private education.



- 14 -
11.   Improved efficiengy of education:  The strict selection process in the
ninth year of basic education was in line with the goals of the reform.  In the
third year of secondary education, regionalization of the baccalaurdat through
the establishment of acad6miex has introduced a climate of competitiveness, the
effect of which has triggered increases in promotion rates and reduced the
various forms of student losses. At the other levels, the reluctance and refusal
of educators to accept the fact that most repeaters would, with remedial
instruction, be able to succeed in higher classes is often behind the slight
slowdown in the improvement of student flows (promotion cn the rise and dropouts
on the decline). Moreover, despite the transfer of skilled personnel, formerly
employed as teachers, to lower echelon jobs in school administration, the strict
directives given to the regional departments have made it possible to maintain
the efforts to optimize school management. The ratio of administrative staff to
teaching staff has therefore experienced a slight reduction at all education
levels. Such efficiency is helping to cut the operating costs of the education
system.
12.   Curriculum:  Preparation of a special education program to help students
with learning difficulties needs to be based on the studies commissioned by the
Ministry of Education on topics such as the preparation of standardized
achievement tests (PSI), diagnostic testing (PS2) and the development of remedial
instruction for basic education (PS3). These studies, which are still at the
preliminary stage, are being compromised and overstepped in the preparation of
such a program.   The proposals and recommendations from several studies could
still, however, help with the planning of a reform program:
(i) Academic and vocational auidance counseling (PS4)
The study has successfully identified the psychopedagogic aspects of
academic and vocational guidance counseling and has resulted in the
proposal of an overall experimental model for future use. Such research
should be continued and conducted in greater depth, particularly in the
area of human sciences and more specifically in the vital field of
academic and vocational guidance counseling practices and procedures. It
would be a good idea to set up units that would conduct analyses and
experiments on an ongoing basis, and to provide them with the necessary
human and financial resources.
(ii) Teacher trainina and uyoradino (PS6)
The purpose of the survey was essentially to underline teacher training
needs. The findings identified two requirements for preliminary training
that would be cost-effective:
- That the practical aspects be stressed in the training, giving careers
in teaching more professional prestige. To achieve this, student teacher
internships in primary and secondary schools are most important.
- That a strategy be established for the upkeep, maintenance and repair of
the physical plant, given its important role in the management of training
activities.



- 15 -
Refresher courses are urgently needed. While their design and planning in
terms of refresher training centers, priority categories, duration,
content, staffing, methods and means pose no problem, their organization,
management and financing are constraints and even obstacles to their
introduction, particularly at the regional and local level.
(iii) Role of secondary education personnel (PS7)
This study will, an part of the recommended education reform, Ldentify key
elements embodied in the recommendations, such as increased accountability
of the various categories of personnel based on a precise and clear
redefinition of tasks and the restructuring of all departments, the
revamping of the initial training of all categories of personnel, the
institutionalization of an ongcing refresher training strategy to meet the
dictates of scientific and socioeconomic advances, the introduction of
joint efforts and collaboration, the introduction of a system of material
incentives to encourage a spirit of initiative and innovative efforts at
all levels of employment in the education sector, increasing autonomy of
school management, the involvemer.t of all socioeconomic partners in
cooperative activities and assuming responsibility and, finally, the
institutionalization of coordination among the different levels of
education in order to mesh all points of view.
(iv) Encouragement of irivate education (PS8)
The study recommends that sucn encouragem%nt be focused on skills and
responsibilities in the education sector being shared between the State
and director3 of private schools and training establishments so that the
community can be provided with a uniform education.  At all levels of
education the technical and teaching standards of the private schools will
have to be consistent with the goals set for public education. From the
legal point of view,  current legislation is still inadequate.   The
investment code awaiting approval has overlooked most benefits associated
with the discounts on construction loans. Private establishments should
be classified not according to the type of education they provide but
according to the size of the establishment and the geographical area in
which it is located. The establishment of a land reserve by the local
governments should include private education under the same heading as
other community infrastructure.
(v) Multiorade teaching (PS9)
In its summary,  the study reports that multigrade teachPig  is, in
quantitative terms, an unusual practice that i& essentially limited to
marginal areas where student enrollment is on the decline. In terms of
teaching methods, the way to offset the adverse effects of several grades
being taught in a single cla ;s is by WVs. ting an approach based on
complementary teaching, including the e   :-iio'; of lessons wherever
possible, which involves dividing lesson; :..co several segments, viz. an
oral/written segment, a teaching/exercise segment 'tc. and simply by
teaching certain subjects in tandem and lumping several lessons together



- 16 -
into one that is taught to the entire class. As for teacher training,
hiring procedures and internchips should seek candidates with the ethical
standards and personality traits needed for working in a rural
environment, where they must be willing to expand their field of knowledge
and to go beyond the usual sociocultural approach to that environment.
Performance of the Dongr and the Borrower
13.   Performance of the Donor: in hindsight, the Bank's main weakness regarding
the education reform program seems to lie in its launching of a program that was
too ambitious, overly broad in scope and hard to supervise, particularly during
its start-up phase given the modest human and physical resources available to the
Borrower for monitoring and implementation. Furthermore, since Bank missions
were generally responsible for supervising and preparing several projects, it is
hard to say whether sufficient time was spent on supervising the program. The
flexibility shown by the Bank, however, particularly when it came to extending
the closing date, to some extent contributed towards the eventual success of the
program.
14.   Performance of the Borrower:  The recent strengthening of the management
capacity of the project management division helped to some extent to activate the
final phase of the program. The reorganization of that division resulted in the
creation of four units, respectively responsible for project studies,
procurement, operations and accounting.   Staffed with qualified people, the
division currently has three inspectors, two administrators, three planning
consultants, one architect, one engineer and several mid-level managers.
-II. Results of the  rooram
15.   Physical impact: The construction of prefabricated buildings, particularly
in the rural areas, made possible the first phase of expanding access to the
first cycle of basic schooling. Inspections of certain schools in the program,
however, already reveal signs of deterioration in the buildings in certain
locations. The problems are primarily attributable to soil conditions affecting
support structures and to the quality of the manufactured components. Lighting
was also not up to standard.   Efforts are therefore needed tco step up the
monitoring of the buildings and to reformulate the specifications so that the
necessary adjustments are made when the prefabricated components are cast. The
provision of special equipment to the training institutions and schools has made
it possible to replace old and obsolete equipment with state-of-the-art equipment
in education and training.
16.   Impact on cost control:  The program has had a significant impact in
cutting education spending on training and in increasing the workload of
teachers. In terms of the efficiency of school management and the sharing of
education costs by encouraging the private sector, the measures adopted still do
not go far enough. In terms of school construction, optimization of the planned
constructions is a goal that needs to be adopted for future projects.
17.  Imvact on teachina methods:  Regarding student flow, in keeping with the
recommendations of the reform, there has been a significant improvement in the



- 17 -
"flow rate," particularly for the fifth year of primary education. Secondary
enrollments are increasing more slowly, and selection in the ninth year of basic
schooling Is more rigorous. The vocational training stream, however, which is
one of the absolute prerequisLtes for the success of the reform, has yet to be
put in place.
18.   Impact on-cujrgicula:  The relevance of the proposals and recommendations
of certain studies (para 12), is bound to be helpful in shaping the reforms. The
obstacles affecting progress on the other studies (PSI, PS2, PS3 and PS5) are
attributable, in pars%. to the red tape involved in setting up credit lines and
to tax problems.
D.    Conclusion
19.   While the goal of reallocating resources is close to being achieved, the
development of education in terms of qualitative objectives has been late in
getting started. The important tasks such as bringing the disadvantaged back
into the socioeconomic mainstream and increasing their participation through
accompanying measures are some of the many goals which will need to be targeted
in future projects. The fact still remains that nothing can really be achieved
upless general education &nd vocational training are combined into a
comprehensive system and some kind of financial assistance is made available to
families unable to afford the school expenses of their children.



- 18 -
III. SThTIST!CAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Consistent with Government needs and priorities, Bank lending in education
and traininq has evolved from reinforcement of general primary and secondary
education (First to Fifth Education Projects, PY65 to FY82) - with the exception
of direct support through small project components for manpower training in the
sectors of forestry (Second Education Project, FY71), and health, tourism and
rural development (Third Education Project, FY76) - to its current emphasis on
reinforcing employment-oriented skill training (First and Second Vocational
Training Projects, FY86 and FY87), and on introducing structural reforms to
increasing access to basic education (Rural Primary Education Project and Rural
Basic Education Development Project, FY89 and FY91).
B.    Program Timetable
Actual
Phases in Proaram Develonment    Planned Date             Date
Identification                                            1984
Preparation                                               198'-85
Appraisal Mission                                         May 1985
Loan Negotiations                                         January 1986
Board Approval                                            March 1986
Loan Effectiveness                                        September 9, 1986
Loan Closing                       December 31, 1988      December 31, 1989
Loan Disb. Completion              June 30, 1989          March 28, 1990
C. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USs millions)
Year               1986        1987        1988         1989        1990
Appraisal
Estimate         69.0         136.0       150.0
Actual            28.4          87.2        112.7       135.0        150.0
Actual as %
of Estimate      42%           64%          75%         90%         100%



- 19 -
D. Proaram Costs and Financina (US$ millions)
1. Program Costs            APPRAISAL ESTIMATE      ===== ACTUAL u====
-----------                    Foreign                 Foreign
Local Exchang Total    Local Exchang Total
Costs   Costs Costs    Costs   Costs Costs
Category:                   =='' ===  ====,    ===== ======= =====
Construction                   241    155    396   1 255    171    426
Equip. & Furn.                  12     35     47   |
University Fellowships
and Second. Scholarships      64     32     96        52     31     83
Teacher Training               124      -    124       101      -    101
Consultants' and
Architectural svs.            1      1      2         1      -      1
other 1/                     1,137     27  1,164    1,638      35  1,673
Total            1,579    250  1,829    2,047    237  2,284
.=====  ====  =====    =====   ==== = ===
2. Program Financing
-O---------------               ORIGINAL                ACTUAL
a. :BRD                              % of   %of              % of   %of
Amount   IBRD  Total    Amount  IBRD  '.otal
category:                   -====  ==== ======    ===== ===== =
Cons7:ruction                   25     17               22     15
Equi.  & Furn.                   6      4               15     10
Univect2ity Fellowships         32     21               31     20
Teacha. Training                86     57               81     54
Consultints' and
Arcik.t ctural svs.           1      1                1      1
Total IBRD            150    100       8      150    100       7
.==    =====                   ==
b. Government                1,679            92    2,134             93
TOTAL (a+b)         1,829            100    2,284            100
1/ Includes salaries and benefits for staff of primary, secondary and higher
education institutions, and for MO2 central and regional administrative staff.



- 20 -
E.  Proaram Results
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ACTUAL      === PROJECTED ==        ==== ACTUAL-
1984/85      1987/88   1989/90       1987/88   1989/90
PRIMARY LEVEL (grades 1-5)                        l/
_____________
New intakes to Grade 1 ('000) 2/   303            499       549           419       424
Total enrollment ('000)            2,200        2,438     2,665         2,103     2,085
Promotion rate Grade 5 to 6         49.0         60.0      84.0          62.2      74.6
Student/teacher ratio               31.1         31.0      n.a.          26.0      24.9
Number of classrooms ('000)         48.9         53.5      n.a.          52.7      S5.7
Unit recurrent cost (1986 DH)        959          780      n.a.         1,119     1,428
UPPER BASIC LEVEL (grades 6-9)
-----------------
Total enrollment ('000)              730          961      1,201          972     1,042
Promotion rate Grade 9 to 10        52.1         42.0      40.0          37.6      38.8
Student/teacher ratio               20.5         21.3      n.a.          21.8      20.7
Number of classrooms ('000)         16.0         22.9      n.a.          19.1      20.1
SECONDARY LEVEL (grades 10-12)
=______________
Total enrollment ('000)              300          304        320          308       295
Baccalaureate graduates              37.5         40.4       42.4         54.0      n.a.
Student/teacher ratio               17.4         17.6      n.a.          16.2      13.3
HIGHER EDUCATION
________________
New intakes                         40.4         42.9       44.6         55.9      55.6 3/
Total enrollment ('000)            119.2        151.4      167.9        169.2     185.1 3/
Unit recurrent cost (1986 DH)      8,797        6,487       n.a.        6,760     6,615 3/
I/ Last year of reform program.
2/ New intakes to Grade 1 were 346,000 in 1983/84 and 448,000 in 1985/86.
In 1984/85, 6-year-olds were not allowed to enter Grade 1 (legal entry age is 7,
although 6-year-olds account for about 20% of new enrollments).  In 1983/84,
55000 6-year-olts had been admitted to Grade 1, resulting in a shrunk pool of 7-
year-olds the year after. Which explains the dip in new enrollments in 1984/85,
and the significant increase the year after.
3/ Data for 1988/89. More recent data not available.



- 21 -
F.  St,tus of covenants
Description of Covenants       Source                          Discussion
The Borrower shall:
1. (a) ensure that the study   Loan Agreement 3.03 (a) and   An interim report was given
referred to in part (C) of    (b).                               to the Bank.  A final report
the project will be carried                                      was not issued, nor were any
out,  completed and a copy                                       measures  to  encourage  the
furnished  to  the  Bank  no                                     expansion    of    private
later  than  December  31.                                       education implemented.
1986;  and  (b)  take  all
measures required to carry
out the recommendations of
the study.
2.  (a)  ensure  that  the   Loan Agreement 3.04 (a) and   Out of the 12 studies, only
studies referred to in part    (b).                               one   was   completed   and
A(l)b, A(3), A(S), A(6) and                                       transmitted  to  the  Bank
B(2)  of  the  project  are                                       (multi grade teaching)  and
carried out, completed and a                                      some of its recommendations
copy of each study furnished                                      have been introduced on a
to the Bank no later than                                         small scale.   The interim
December 31, 1988; and (b)                                        reports for 7 other studies
promptly   carry   out   the                                      were furnished to the Bank.
recommendations   of   such                                       No  reports  we-e  furnished
studies.                                                          for the remaining 4 studies.
Very little follow-up has
materialized   or   can   be
expected on recommendations
of the incomplete studies.
3.    Ensure    that    all   Loan Agreement 3.05.                The number of scholarships
fellowships included in part                                      grew at about the same rate
(B)1  of  the  project  are                                      as enrollments.  Some of the
awarded  on  the  basis  of                                       eligibility criteria agreed
eligibility    criteria                                           at appraisal were enforced,
satisfactory to the Bank.                                         thus increasing the number
of partial (25%, 50%, 75%)
scholarships granted.



- 22 -
3.  Increase  the  rate  of   Loan Agreement Schedule 6,   The promotion rate increased
promotion of ztudents from   para D.                              from 49% in June 1985 to 55%
5th to 6th grade such that                                        in 1986, 61% in 1987, 62% in
the number of students so                                         1988 and 1989.
promoted   in   June   1986
represents about 54% of the
5th grade enrollment in that
year.
4. Reduce the promotion rate   Loan Agreement Schedule 6,   The   promotion   rate   was
from 9th to 10th grade so   para E.                               reduced from 52% in June 85
that the number of students                                       to 44% in 1986, 40% in 1987,
promoted   in   June   1986                                       38%  in  1988,  and  39%  in
represents about 45% of 9th                                       1989.
grade enrollment in that
year.
5.  Limit  the  number  of   Loan Agreement Schedule 6,   New entrants to university
students  admitted  in  each   para P.                            increased by the following
academic year to the first                                        proportions:  2.4% in 1985-
year  of  university,  to  a                                      86,  21%  in  1987-88,  and
level equal to about 102% of                                      decreased by 12% in 1988-89.
the total number of students                                      Data  for  1989-90  is  not
admitted to the first year                                        available    but    further
of  university  during  the                                       decreases are unlikely.
preceding academic year.
G.    Use of Bank Resources
1. Staff InDuts
(Staff weeks)
Stage of cycle
Proiect-Cycle                   FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90   TOTAL
To Appraisal Departure          26.6  33.3                                   59.9
Appraisal through
Board Approval                        17.7  42.1                             59.8
Board Approval
through Effectiveness                        15.3                            15.3
Supervision                                  3.3  26.8  10.3   2.1   2.3   44.8
TOTAL                           26.6  51.0  60.7  26.8  10.3   2.1   2.3  178.8



- 23 -
W                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~2. BANK MEhONS
Sbhi Of                  Msb         NL of                             Spofaslo
Identification
to A2Draisal
10/83        2            4                   EC,LO
03/84        4            5                   EC,LO,EP,TE
10/84        6            9                   EC,EP,LO,TE
12/84        3            3                   EC,LO
Subtotal:                            21
Ap,raisal to
Effectiveness
04/85        7           14                   EC,EP,GE,AC,TE
09/85        1            0.5                 CH
Subtotal:                            14.5
Supervision
10/86        4            7                   TE,GE,LO
01/87        1            1                   TE
04/87        3            3                   EP,TE,EC
07/87        2            2                   EP,TE
11/87        2            3                   EP,TE
03/88        2            5                   EP,AC
06/88        1            2                   AC
11/88        2            2                   EP,GE
04/89        2            3                   EP,GE
10/89        2            3                   EP,GE
Subtotal:                            31
Grand total:                                               66.5
Key to symbols:
EC:  Economist                  TE:   Technical Educator
GE:  General Educator           AC:   Architect
EP:  Education Planner          LO:   Loan Officer
CH:  Division Chief or Deputy Chief



