Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
o    G  Y-4
Report No. 5923-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
February 25, 1986
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
MEA -  Ministry of Economic Affairs
MOE  -  Ministry of Education
MOF -  Ministry of Finance
MOL -  Ministry of Labor
MOP  - Ministry of Planning
MPW  -  Ministry of Public Works and Vocational Training
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US Dollar ($) 1.00 = Moroccan Dirhams (DH) 9.5
DH 1.000 = US$o.1053
GOVERNLENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO       FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED    ....)...... 
BASIC DATA .    .    .........................................     (ii)
LOAN SUMMARY .. ..................................... (iii)-(vi)
I. INTRODUCTION                          ..... 1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR .     .    ..................................... 4
The Education and Training System              .    .    .    4
Context of the Reform .      ................ .               4
Education and Training Issues .     . ...............         7
III.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM .................         13
Objectives and Projected Impact          . . ........... 13
Policy Actions             .        .       ............... 18
(a) Expand Access to Basic Schooling . . ...............   19
Cb) Restrain Growth of Upper Secondary
and Higher Education         .     .     ............. 21
*c) Improve Education Efficiency .................        21
(d) Control Education Costs           .......... 23
Vocational Training                .......... 25
IV.   THE PROPOSED LOAN .................                          27
Rationale and Objectives                 . . .   27
Program Costs             .        .       ............... 28
Disbursements             .        .       ............... 35
Implementation ............................... 38
(a) Coordination within MOE .................             39
(b) Liaison with the Bank .................               40
(c) Monitoring and Reporting .................            40
Monitoring and Tranche Release .................             42
Accounts and Audits .................                        44
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .................                         45
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................    47
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Morocco in
April/May  1985.   Mission  members  were Michael Mertaugh  (mission  leader),
Daniel Viens (World Bank), Ead Dib and Linda Dove (consultants).
This document h a restuicted distribution and may be usd by reipients only in the performane
of their official dudeL Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank autbhouztion.



Table of Contents (Continued)
; 
ANNEXES AND TABLES
Tables 1 - Evolution of Public-School EnroLlments by Level
2 - Evolution of the Ministry of Education Budget
as a Share of GDP and Total Government
Budget, 1975-85
3 - Public Schooling Enrollments by Level
(Historical and Projected)
4 - Indicative Education Program:
Estimates of Education Expenditures by
Budget Category, Reform Program Phase I
5 - Comparative Education Indicators
Annexes A - Statement of Education Sector Policy
Attachment 1 - Summary of Reform Measures and
Implementation Matrix
Attachment 2 - Performace Targets
B - Cost Projection Methodology
C - Proposed Studies under the Reform Program
D - Ministry of Education Organizational Chart
E- School Planning and School Mapping
F - Implementation of School Construction
* - Revised Construction Norms for
Primary and Secondary Schools
I - Local Procurement Assessment Report
I - Draft Legislation on Incentives for Private-Sector
Education Investments
J- Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Reform Program File
MAP



KWGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
Country Data
Per Capita GNP (1984):                          US$670
Total population
(est. mid year 1985):                         21.8 million
Population growth rate (1985):                  2.5S per annum
Education (1983/84)                                                         Female
Gross        Net        Enroll.
Total        Net          Enroll.      Enroll.      as S
Level                  Enroll. 1/   Enroll. 2/   Ratio  3/   Ratio  4/  of Total
Primary
(grades 1-5)         2,467,611    1,815,668        77.91        57.3%      37.7%
Lower secondary
(grades 6-9)           710,384       392,240       33.31        18.41      39.91
Upper secondary
(grades 10-12)         324,716       115,784       22.61         8.1%      38.51
University               99,637           N/A        5.01          N/A       N/A
Public Expenditure on Education (1984)
Central government education budget
as a Z of total government budget:                   22.91
Central government education budget                    6.0%
as a X of GDP:
Central government capital budget
for education as a Z of government
capital budget:                                      10.5X
Central government recurrent budget
for education as a Z of government
recurrent budget:                                    28.51
1/ Public plus private schooling.
2/ Net enrollments equal total enrollments minus over-age students.
3/ Total enrollments as Z of population in relevant age group.
4/ Net enrollments as S of population in relevant age group.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loa
Borrower:             Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:               US$150 million equivalent
Terms:                20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate
Loan Description:          The proposed Loan would support the two-year first
phase of implementation of the Government's education
sector reform program and would assist the Borrower in
carrying out reform activities during this phase.  The
objectives  of  the  reform  program  are  to  make  the
provision    of    education    more    equitable,    more
cost-effective, and more consistent with the country's
medium-term  development needs.   It would do  this  by:
(a) improving equity of education by devoting a larger
share of education resources to primary and lower
secondary education, with a major increase in the number
of students entering and completing basic schooling
(grades   1   through   9);   (b) improving   educational
efficiency in terms of improved student flows and
improved employment orientation of schooling at all
levels;  and   (c)  containing  the  growth  of  public
expenditures on education through reduction of unit
costs, introduction of cost recovery measures, and
encouragement  of private-sector  participation.   At  the
same time, the Government would develop a number of new
pedagogical actions under the reform program to preserve
the quality of education programs while extending the
coverage of basic education and controlling the growth of
education costs. The Bank has received a letter from the
Government which sunmarizes the objectives and content of
the reform program. The content and timing of the agreed
reform program are more fully described in a Statement of
Education Sector Policy and its attachments.   The Loan
would finance a two-year time slice covering part of the
foreign exchange cost of the agreed reform program during
the  first  phase  of  reform  program  iraplementation.
Disbursements would be made against an agreed program of
investment expenditures in basic schooling, as well as
expenditures    for    teacher   training   and    foreign
fellowships.      Implementation      risks    relate    to
uncertainties of public acceptance of reform program
measures, and to the risk of incomplete implementation
which arises from the fact that pedagogical programs
which are to be developed during the first phase of the
reform are essential to the long-range objectives of the
reform.



(it)
Estiated Program Costs
Z Total
Millions of               Millions of        Phase I
Current DH                Current US$        Program
Category of Expenditure  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Costs
Investment
Primary and Secondary
School Construction        2,296   1,467   3,763       241     155      396    21.7S
Equipment and
Furniture:
Primary and Secondary       66     200      266        7      21       28     1.5%
IBRD 4th, 5th Ed Proj.    45       133      178        5      14       19     1.0O
Other                       32      98      130        3      10       13     0.7S
Subtotal                2,439   1,898   4,337       2.56     200      456    24.9Z
Recurrent
Salaries and
Benefits:
Teacher Training           520      -       520       54      -        54     3.0S
Other                  10,149       -   10,149   1,069        -    1,069    58.4S
Fellowships and
Stipends:
University Fellowships   395       303      698      41       32       73     4.0S
Teacher Training
Stipends                 655       -       655      69       -        69     3.8S
Secondary Fellowships a/ 211        -       211       23      -        23     1.2S
Educational Materials:
Primary and Secondary    125        54      179      13        6       19     1.1l
Teacher Training             6       3        9        1      -         1     0.1S
Other                      268     114      382      28       12       40     2.1S
School Maintenance           237      -       237       25      -        25      1.4S
Subtotal               12,566      474  13.040   1.323        50   1.373    75.1S
TOTAL PHASE I COSTS      15.005   2.372  17.377   1.579        250   1.829   100.0S
a/ For boarding students, to offset boarding fees.



FEtmated Einmig Pla
Phase I Reform Program Costs,
Indicative Allocation of Loan Proceeds in Parentheses
(Total Costs in Millions of US$)
Category of                                                       Total
Program Expenditure                CY 1986          CY 1987          Phase I
Primary and Secondary
School Construction
and Related Services               172              224               396
(7)             (19)              (26)
Equipment, Furniture and
Educational Materials:
Primary and Secondary             21               26                47
(2)              (4)               (6)
IBRD 4th. 5th Ed. Projects a/    16                 3                19
(0)              (0)               (0)
Other                             28               26                54
(0)              (0)               (0)
University Fellowships:
Studies in Morocco               22                19                41
(0)              (0)               (0)
Foreign Studies                  17                15                32
(17)             (15)              (32)
Teacher Training                      62               62               124
(Salaries, Benefits, Stipends,     (49)              (37)              (86)
Educational Materials)
Other Program Costs                 541               575             1,116
(0)              (0)               (0)
Total Program Costs             879               950             1,829
(75)             (75)             (150)
a/ The Fourth and Fifth Education Projects support the construction and
equipping of education, technical education, and teacher training
institutions which are compatible with the reform program objectives and
content (see footnote 1, paragraph 4.09).



(iv)
Estimated Disbursements: The Loan would be made available
for disbursement in two tranches. The first tranche of US$75
million would be released at Loan Effectiveness; the second
tranche of US$75 million would be released upon confirmation,
through an interim review, of satisfactory performance to be
conducted by December 31, 1986.
Estimated D    e     ts
Bank Fiscal Year   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual              36.5    64.5    44.0      5.0
Cumulative          36.5   101.0   145.0   150.0
Doc 2872V



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
L NTODUCTON
1.01     Morocco's economic performance in the late 1970s and early 1980s was
characterized by slow growth and serious fiscal and trade deficits. At the
same time, there was massive growth in enrollments in a traditional type
school system. Taken together, these have led to a serious situation in which
the Government has bravely and imaginatively decided on a program of extensive
education reforms. The reform program is the culmination of a long series of
Government deliberations on the structure and objectives of the education
system.   In  the context of  its  education operations,  the Bank has been
involved in a lengthly and intensive dialogue with the Government on the
appropriate  content of the  reform.  The Bank has thus helped define the
directions of the reform, and fully supports the reform program.  The Bank
also appreciates the courageous and thoughtful decisions which the Government
has taken to launch the reform.  The current economic constraint has hastened
the Government's decision to implement the reform program, but the origins of
Government deliberations on the reform predate the current economic situation,
and the reform measures are desirable on their own merits. Although the
reform includes a number of sensitive measures. it is likely to be implemented
successfully because of the Government's very deliberate efforts to prepare
public expectations and to situate the reform in a national development
context.   Successful  implementation  of  the  reform  is also  likely  to be
facilitated by the major expansion and strengthening of vocational training
undertaken by the Government since 1984, together with new efficiency and cost
control measures which are already beginning to attract the interest of other
countries in the region.
1.02     The objectives of the reform program are to make the provision of
education more equitable, more cost-effective, and more consistent with the
country's medium-term development needs. It would do this through three major
policy changes: First, it would give more prominence to the importance of
basic education by allocating a larger share of resourcJs to basic education
and slowing the growth of education at other levels, with a major increase in
the number of students entering and completing basic schooling (grades I
through 9). Second, it would attempt to meet the needs of the economy and of
school  leavers  through strengthened vocational  training.   Third, it would
control the growth of education costs through improved educational efficiency
in terms of improved student flows, through reduction of unit costs, through
introduction of cost recovery measures, and through encouragement of greater
private-sector participation.   Full implementation of the reform would be a
long-term activity, requiring about ten years to achieve its ultimate



- 2 -
objectives.   The proposed Loan would help launch the reform by financing a
time-slice of education expenditures during the two-year first phase of reform
program implementation. During this first phase, the new orientation of the
education system would be established and the framework for controlled future
expansion  of  the  education  system  would  be  put  into  place.   Improved
pedagogical  programs  would  also  be  developed  during  this  phase  for
implementation during the subsequent phase f the reform. Key policy changes
to prepare for the first phase have already been announced or are already in
place.  These include strengthened vocational training, repetition limits in
primary and secondary schooling, tightened university fellowship eligibility,
restrictions  on  civil  servants'  enrollment  in  university  courses,  and
introduction of university registration fees. The second phase of the reform
program would extend and reinforce implementation of the measures introduced
under the first phase, and would introduce additional pedagogical and
cost-control measures which would be prepared during the first phase. These
measures include the introduction of remedial instruction and diagnostic
testing in basic schooling, the strengthening of in-service teacher training
and  regional  pedagogical  support  (conseil  p6dagogigue)  services,  and
cost-saving   innovations   in   school   construction-particularly   at   the
primary-school level.
1.03     The proposed operation is a key element of the Government's current
strategy  for  economic  restructuring  and  containment  of  public-sector
expenditures. The need for economic restructuring and containment of public
expenditures arose largely from the then seemingly reasonable but ambitious,
growth-oriented policies which the Government pursued in every sector during
the 1970s.  These expansive policies were financed initially by the abundant
phosphate revenues which resulted from the 1973 tripling of phosphate prices.
They were maintained by foreign borrowing later in the decade as phosphate
revenues declined with softening prices and as expenditures for petroleum
imports   steadily   increased.    To   control   the   rising   fiscal   and
balance-of-payments disequilibria, the Government in 1978 adopted a three-year
stabilization program focussing on reducing public sector outlays and imposing
stricter import controls. This program proved insufficient to restore fiscal
and trade equilibrium, and the early 1980's witnessed a further deterioration
of the fiscal and balance-of-payments  situation.   In 1983,  the Government
acknowledged the seriousness of the situation: With foreign exchange reserves
virtually exhausted and with a worsening fiscal deficit, the need for
restructuring was evident. Under a 1983 Standby agreement with the IMF, the
Government sharply curtailed public expenditures and at the same time began
discussions with the Bank on a strategy for economic restructuring and
containment of public  sector  expenditures.   The  proposed  Education  Sector
Reform Program is one element of that strategy. The other elements are:
(a) industrial restructuring (supported by the FY85 and FY86 Industrial
and  Trade  Policy  Adjustment   Loans),   designed   to   invigorate
private-sector industries, particularly for export production;
(b)  agricultural  reform  (supported  by  the  FY85  Agricultural  Sector
Adjustment Loan), designed to overcome prevailing constraints to
rational land use, to improve farming techniques, and to provide the
modern inputs and support services necessary to bring about these
changes; and



-3-
(c) public enterprise reform (to be supported by a public enterprise
rehabilitation loan currently in preparation), designed to improve
the efficiency of public enterprises in a number of sectors.
The education reform is an important complement to these major restructuring
initiatives by the Government, both because it would reorient the education
and training system to better respond to the country's medium-term development
needs, and because it would improve the efficiency of resource use in the
sector which consumes the largest share of public resources.
1.04     Discussions with  the Government  on  the content of the education
sector reform were initiated following the October 1981 Education ana Training
Sector Survey. The specific findings and recommendations of that survey were
discussed with the Government first in the context of the 1981-85 Economic
Plan Review, then in the context of the conditions for the 1983 IMF Standby
Agreement.  Sector survey recommendations, pertaining to limitation of teacher
recruitment and reduced levels of fellowships and teacher training stipends,
were included among the conditions agreed with the IMF for the 1983 Standby.
The Government subsequently curtailed teacher recruitment and imposed
fellowship and stipend restrictions as proposed by the Bank and agreed with
the IMF. An October 1983 education sector mission discussed additional reform
measures with the Ministry of Education (MOE) and, at the request of the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), examined the impact of the proposed reform program
upon short-term investment requirements in terms of budgetary commitments and
expenditures.  The latter activity was conducted in the context of the Bank/
Government Joint Public Investment Review, which is leading to improved
budgetary planning by the MOF and the operational ministries, and an expected
improvement in the efficiency of contract approval and payment authorization
by the MOF. A March 1984 mission reached agreement with the MOE on the
objectives and key measures of the education reform. Subsequent discussions
focussed on the budgetary and political feasibility and phasing of the
proposed reform program.   Following the March 1984 mission,  the education
reform proposals were incorporated into a highly disaggregated projection
model of enrollments, teaching inputs, and associated investment and recurrent
expenditure requirements. Discussions on the content and costs of the reform
program were held in October and December 1984 with the Ministry of Education,
the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs (MEA), the Ministry
of Planning (MOP), and the Ministry of Public Works and Vocational Training
(MPW), as well as the Prime Minister's Office. Following these discussions,
the projected cost implications of the reform program were refined and
confirmed with the Government during the April/May 1985 appraisal mission.
During this mission, the support of all Ministries involved in the proposed
reform program was confirmed, and the reform program was presented to and
endorsed by the Parliament.
1.05     A Bank Loan of US$150 million is proposed to support first-phase
implementation of the education reform program. The proposed Bank Loan is
timely and important for two reasons: first, it would permit the Government
to launch the reform at a time when government commitment to the reform is at
a high level but financial resources are severely constrained; and second, by
demonstrating  Bank  support  for  the  reform,  it  would  facilitate  public
acceptance of the sensitive elements of the reform such as increased teaching
hours and slower growth of university intakes (paragraph 5.02).



IL THE EDUCA33E  SCTOR
uiernEmeati  ad 1fainn Sistema
2_01    mm  ME is responsible  for formal education and training which
includes  primary, general  and  technical  s            and  post-secondary
technical  education  (technical  training  institutes,  teacher  trainin
institutes.  and  the College  of Applied  Engineering)  as  vell  as  the
universities. PrimAry school is five years in duration; lover- ad
upper-cyce secondary are four and three years. respectively-  Schooling is
n01inally caplsory for all boys and girs between the ages of 7 amd 16,
altough  school attede by children  in  this age group  is  far froa
cqplete-Largely die to limited classro   faciliUas. particularly im rural
areas (pagraph 2.06). Private schooling is not well developed. accounting
for less than 4Z of enrollmts in priwy and secondary education.
2.02    In addition to  general education, the M   is also  involved in
technical and vocationl education.  In 1968, the ME's secondary colIege  of
'ocatIDEal trainig, until the  the major source for skilled worker training,
ver  disbanded and each mIn;itry va  charged with the task of traing
sPecialized peroel for its own needs.  In 1975, the National Office of
ocatioal Training (the Office) mm  created under the auspices of the
MinistrY of Labor (MOL) to meet private sector needs, mainly in the
industrial, construction, and camrcial fields.  at present. alisot all
inistries bhae their own training units, and the Office has evolved into a
mior training agency, nw  under the authority of the  WV.  Jpart from a
vestigial program i lower secondary vocational education, the MOE's current
volvement in voational and technical education consists of a technical
baccalaureat program at tbe upper secondary level, and technical teacheb
training and e     r studies at the post-secondary level. gsbt operating
ministries also provie tehican training for their onm needs. A nutber of
these also provide vocational training for their own skilled-worker
neefds- -otably the parm edical training provided by the Ministry of Realth,
and -ae training in construction specializations provided by the mm.
Sic t program  of pre-service skill training within the prixvate sector
are eztvely limited, and are confined largely to CCNmercial specializations.
Cam*et of the Redwin
2.03      Go t Strate.  Go             t efforts in the education sector
since  Id         (1956) bae focussed an expansion of school capacity at all
levels, on loroccanization of teaching staff, and on developmnt of new course
offerings consistent with tke needs of a groving economy. As shown in Anne
Table 1, schooling capacity has expanded progressively, beginning with the
lowest levels of schooling. and advancing to successively higher levels. At
Indpend ece  Ibrocco's education system vas little  developed  beyond the
primary  level.  The GCovexunts  initial efforts focussed on epandig
secondary educatin, where enrollments increased very rapidly during the first
decade of I     n       rising from  4.000 in 1957 to over 200,000 in 1966.
Epansio  of  bgher education  followed,  particularly  after  the  mjor



investment program undertaken with increased phosphate revenues in 1974 and
1975: enrollments in higher education grew at over 15X per year between 1974
and 1984.  Under the reform program, government efforts would concentrate on
expanding basic schooling and on providing vocational training to as many
school leavers as possible. In 1984, the Government embarked on an important
program of vocational training expansion-an effort which is being supported
by the Vocational Training Project (parag:aph 3.09). The current expansion of
vocational training capacity appropriately focuses on specializations in which
shortages of skilled manpower are constraining private-sector output growth,
particularly in the electro-mechanical industries.-'  A study of medium-term
manpower needs being carried out by the MOP is to identify other priority
areas for future expansion of vocational training capacity.
2.04     Bank  Strategy.   Although  otiher  external  sources  have  supported
particular elements of the education program, -  the Bank has had the most
sustained and the most comprehensive involvement in the education sector. The
Bank has been active in the education/training sector since 1963, as reflected
in the six education/training projects (three of which are ongoing) and in the
sector work and government policy discussions which led to the proposed reform
program. Consistent with government needs and priorities, Bank lending in the
sector has evolved from an initial focus on reinforcement of general education
at the primary and secondary levels to its current emphasis on reinforcing
employment-oriented skill training and on introducing structural reforms to
improve the efficiency, financial viability, and employment orientation of
education at all levels. This evolution of Bank lending also reflected key
lessons learned from ongoing lending-particularly, the importance of adequate
staff capabilities in the implementing agency and of adequate coordination of
interministerial aspects of  implementation.   With  the exception of direct
support through small project compornents for manpower training in the sectors
of forestry (second education project), and health, tourism, and rural
development (third education project), the thrust of Bank lending has been in
support of the formal ed.cation system, particularly of basic education and
technical and engineering specializations, and has attempted to improve both
internal and external efficiency of education through curriculum reform,
upgrading teacher skills, and improving teaching equipment. The recent (FY85)
vocational training project extends Bank involvement to the complementary area
of middle-level skill training to meet private-sector manpower needs-
-L. Skill shortages in the electro-mechanical industries have been identified
as a major constrai. t to industrial 'iutput expansion (Morocco, Review of
the Engineering Industries; IBRD Industry Special Study; Report No.
3233-MOR; November 16, 1981).
z-  Most notable of these are the UNICEF support for teacher training in a
new primary school program in practical activities, the ongoing programs
of  technical  assistance  for  teacher  training  provided  by  French,
Canadian, and Belgian aid, and the extensive cooperation program through
which France provided teachers at subsidized rates to all parts of the
education system.  The latter program has dwv±ndled in recent years as a
consequence of the Government's Moroccanization policy, and was suspended
by the Moroccan Government for cost reasons in 1984.  The vocational
training programs of the Office have also benefitted from external
support:   from the European Eco-2omic Comnmity to expand the Office's
network of post-secondary technician training institutes, and from USAID
to enlarge Office industrial training programs for girls.



- 6 -
particularly in the industrial sector.  It is also supporting the development
of a national  training  program  in  project  preparation-an area  in which
current deficiencies have hampered investment planning and implementation in
all sectors.  A concentrated program of sector work was carried out in 1981 to
review issues and objectives in the education/training sector.  The findings
and recommendations of this work (Sector Survey Report No. 4105-MOR, August
1983), together with those of a subsequent special study on the costs of
primary and secondary schooling (Special Study Report No. 5508-MOR, February
1985) were discussed with the Government as a basis for the proposed reform
program.
2.05     Education  Expenditure  Growth.   While  the Government's  efforts  to
expand  schooling  capacity  did  achieve  a  very  significant  growth  and
diversification of enrollments, they also led to a sharp increase in capital
and recurrent expenditures on education. Annex Table 2 summarizes the recent
evolution of MOE expenditures, both in absolute terms and as a share of
government expenditures.  The MOE budget has quadrupled during the past ten
years, and increased from 12.5% of the central government budget in 1975 to
21.5% in 1985.   Budgeted MOE recurrent expenditures  have  grown especially
rapidly, increasing from 14.9% of government recurrent budget in 1975 to 28.6%
in 1985. Although the overall goverment budget was reduced in the austerity
programs of 1978, 1980 and 1984, the MOE budget proved resistant to control
until the IMF-mandated controls of 1984 led to a reduction of the MOE budget.
Even then, however, the largest and least discretionary part of MOE's
budget-the recurrent budget-continued to increase.  The country's continuing
fiscal difficulties (paragraph 1.03) underline the fact that further growth in
the education system can only be made in the context of concerted efforts to
control education costs, particularly in higher education, and to improve the
efficiency of use of education resources at every level.



-7-
Edueation and Training Issues
2.06     Expanding Basic Education.  The most serious issue in the education
and training sector is the low level of enrollments in basic education,
particularly at the primary level. Despite the significant gains in school
capacity and enrollments achieved at all levels, basic schooling is still not
available  to  a  sizeable  proportion  of  the  school-age  population.   The
proportion of school-age children enrolled at each level is shown in Table 2.1:
Table 2.1: NET ENROLLMENT RATIOS BY LEVEL OF SCHOOLING
(1983/84)
(Public and Private School Enrollments,
Excluding Over-Age and Under-Age Students,
as a Percentage of School-Age Population at Each Level)
Male          Female           Total
Primary (grades 1-5, ages 7-11)          69.0%          45.3S           57.3Z
Lower Secondary (grades 6-9,
ages 12-15)            21.41           15.31          18.41
Upper Secondary (grades 10-12,
ages 16-18)             9.4%           6.7%            8.1Z
SOURCE: Calculated from MOE enrollment data and IBRD population estimates.



The low (57.3X) primary school enrollment ratio means that over 1.4 million
children of primary-school age (7 to 11 years) are not enrolled in school.
The most conspicuous shortfall of actual versus potential enrollment occurs
for primary-school age girls,  fewer than half of whom attend school.  The
problem is especially acute in rural areas, where girls account for less than
29% of primary school enrollments (Annex Table 1). Reported illiteracy rates
from recent censuses provide graphic evidence of the consequences of low
levels of enrollments in basic schooling:
Table 2.2: REPORTED ILLITERACY RATES
FOR POPULATION AGED 10 YEARS AND OVEER
Census Year                 1960                1971                1982
Male                         78%                 63%                 51%
Female                       96X                 87%                 78X
Total                        87X                 75Z                 65%
SOURCES: Population Censuses of 1960, 1971, and 1982.
Although the censuses of 1960, 1971, and 1982 record a progressive improvement
in literacy, well over half the population aged 10 years and over remains
illiterate.  Female illiteracy is more than 50% higher than male illiteracy,
reflecting the chronic lower rates of female school attendance, particularly
in  rural  areas.   Government  efforts  to  improve  adult  literacy  focus  on
improvements at the source--i.e., through improved basic schooling enrollments
of  school-age  children.   The  high proportion of adults who are currently
illiterate remains a problem for which the Government has not found a solution.
2.07     The current low levels of enrollments are a cause of serious concern
because they imply that a large share of the population is deprived of the
basic literacy and numeracy skills necessary to play a productive role in
growth of  the modern-sector  economy.   Expanded  basic  schooling  is  a  key
prerequisite of improved labor-force productivity, whether it is followed by
vocational training, higher education, or direct entry to the labor force. In
view of the importance of basic schooling to subsequent performance in
vocational training and employment, expanded basic schooling is a highly
justified area for investment-a finding which is supported by results of
cost/benefit  analyses  of  primary  schooling  in  Morocco.'-  An  additional
reason for devoting a larger share of education resources to the expansion of
See, e.g.,  G. Psacharopoulos, "Earnings Determinants in a Mixed Labour
Market" in Employment Problems and Policies in Developing Countries: The
Case of Morocco. Edited by W. van Rijckeghem, 1976, Rotterdam University
Press.



basic schooling is that such an expansion, which would raise the school
participation of girls, would yield important long-run benefits in the form of
reduced fertility.  Studies of the relationship between fertility and female
schooling in Morocco and in a number of other countries report that, among all
policy variables, expanded basic schooling for girls most consistently and
most significantly  tends  to reduce  fertility.   In  that  important  sense,
investments in primary schooling today reduce the need for such expenditures
in the future.
2.08     The main reason  for  the low  observed  levels  of  enrollments  is
inadequate  school  capacity-particularly  the  lack of adequate  numbers  of
schools in rural areas. The MOE is attempting to make up the deficit of
schools in rural areas, largely through prefabricated school construction.
Budgetary resources for building raral primary schools, however, fall far
short of needs. Moreover, the dispersion of population in remote rural areas
means that the Government's customary practice of providing individual
classrooms for each grade would lead to uneconomically low classroom
utilization  in rural areas.   In order  to  extend  the  coverage  of  basic
schooling in rural areas at reasonable unit costs, the MOE will need to resort
increasingly to multigrade teaching-a practice which is now used in only a
few schools.
2.09     Where schools are available in rural areas, female enrollments are
typically much lower than male enrollments.  This phenomenon reflects rural
parents' reluctance to send their daughters to school, especially after the
age of puberty. Although separate classes for girls might help overcome this
reluctance on the part of rural parents, it is a policy of the Government not
to provide separate classes for boys and girls, which would in any case be
prohibitively expensive given the smaller class sizes which it would imply.
Other approaches should be tried to improve female school attendance in rural
areas.   The  presence  of  female  instructors  in rural  schools  could  help
overcome parents' reluctance to send their daughters to school; enrollment of
girls in rural primary schools is positively related to the number of female
instructors.   Although  there are adequate numbers  of  females  in  teacher
training to assign to rural schools, prospects for doing so are constrained by
the lack of suitable housing in surrounding communities.  Few rural primary
schools provide teacher housing, but those which do tend to have a higher
proportion of female instructors and a higher proportion of female enrollments
than rural schools without teacher housing. The MOE is currently conducting a
study  to  identify  other  factors  which  influence  rural  female  school
attendance, with a view to designing future interventions to improve the
situation.
2.10     Inefficient Schools.  A serious education issue in Morocco is the
very low level of internal efficiency in schooling as reflected in the heavy
losses  which  occur  through  dropouts  and,  particularly,  through  class
repetition.  Loss rates are high at all levels of the formal school system,
but are particularly high at the primary level. Only 24Z of students complete
the five-year primary cycle in five years; 21% drop out before the fifth year,
and of those students who remain, most repeat at least three classes before
completing  primary  school.   The  average  number  of  years  of  instruction
required for each graduate of the five-year primary cycle is 8.6 years.  The
highest repetition occurs at the fifth primary year, which fully 50X of
students repeat.  This is the highest reported incidence of inefficiency due
to class  repetition  of any  public  school  system.   Such high dropout and
repeater rates indicate a serious waste of resources at whatever level they



- 10 -
occur, but they are especially troubling in primary education where repeating
students displace a large number of children who never attend school. where
excessive repetition tends to create a predisposition to failure, and where
many students leave the school system too young to enter the job market.
2.11     High repetition rates throughout primary schooling and high dropout
rates at the end of primary schooling are reportedly well above the level
warranted by student performance.  They are attributable principally to the
very limited number of places in secondary school, which restrict entry to the
students who score the highest on the test administered at the end of the
fifth primary class year.  High repetition rates for the fifth primary class
and even for earlier classes result largely from parents' desires to hold
their children back so as to give them the best possible chance of performing
well on the test. A recent MOE directive limits the total number of classes
which a student can repeat during each cycle of schooling. This policy will
introduce some improvement in student flows, but in order to achieve the
Government's objective of generalized basic schooling it needs to be
complemented by a significant expansion of capacity in lower secondary
schooling (grades 6 through 9).
2.12     Higher education is also marked by serious inefficiency in terms of
high class repetition and dropout rates. The problem is especially acute in
first-year science studies, which fewer than one-third of students pass
successfully  the first  time  through.   This  wastage  results  largely  from
insufficient student disincentives for class failure, and from an imperfect
match between skills acquired by students in secondary schooling and skills
expected of entry-level university students-suggesting, in turn, a faulty
articulation of secoadary and university curricula. The lack of performance
sanctions within the university faculties has meant that insufficiently
prepared students who were admitted to courses could remain in the faculties
and continue  to receive  fellowships  in spite of  repeated failures.   The
fellowship restrictions which were recently introduced by the MOE (50Z
reduction in fellowship amount during first repeated year, suspension of
fellowships for subsequent failures) should lead to a significant improvement
in the situation.  Further efficiency gains in terms of university student
flows are likely to result from the planned introduction of a university
credit-hour  system:    Whereas  students  who  do  not  receive  a  passing
end-of-the-year grade in a single subject are currently required to repeat the
entire year of courses, the credit-hour system will allow students to repeat a
single failed subject rather than repeating the entire year's courses.
2.13     Inappropriate Growth of Higher Education.  The past rapid expansion
of capacity in higher education is no longer justified to supply a civil
service whose foreseeable recruitment needs for upper level staff are largely
met. In the past, most university graduates were absorbed into middle- and
upper-level  positions  in  the  civil  service.   Recruitment  of  university
graduates by the private sector was and is confined largely to scientific and
technical specializations.   With the recent stabilization of civil  service
employment, there has emerged for the first time a significant unemployment of
university graduates, particularly in liberal arts and law specializations
(which together account for over 75% of university enrollments).
2.14     The rapid expansion of higher education is also excessive in terms of
an equitable distribution of educational opportunity. The recurrent costs of
university education per unit are about ten times as high as for primary



- 11 -
education. Although this cost ratio is not unusually high by comparison with
other countries. it does indicate the high cost of university education in
terms of foregone primary school expansion and improvement.
2.15     A third reason for slowing the growth of higher education is that
excessively rapid growth of enrollment such as that experienced during the
past decade is contributing to deterioration in the quality of higher
education.  It is currently a basic tenet of national education policy that
all secondary school graduates have the right to pursue university studies and
receive  a  fellowship.   Whereas  the  non-university  higher  institutes  of
education (the ecoles sup6rieures) have been able to maintain or improve the
quality of education by strictly limiting admissions through competitive entry
examinations, the university faculties have been obliged to accept all
applicants who have successfully completed secondary studies. The quality of
education in the university faculties has suffered as a result, as evidenced
by alarmingly high repetition rates.
2.16     A final reason for slowing the growth of higher education is that the
past rapid growth of enrollments in higher education is financially
unsustainable.   There is currently no cost recovery in higher education in
Morocco. University education is free of charge, apart from a nominal fee for
boarding  students.   Moreover,  virtually  all  university  students  receive
government fellowships, amounting to a total annual cost to the Government (in
1984)  of  500  million  dirhams  (US$55 million)-half of  it  (for Moroccan
students abroad) in foreign currency. In view of the rapidly growing number
of secondary school graduates, continued uncontrolled access to higher
education would pose an excessive financial burden for the Government. even
under the most optimistic assumptions as to future public revenue growth. The
growth of higher education needs to be brought under control and cost recovery
in the form of student fees needs to be introduced in higher education.
2.17     Uncontrolled  Growth  of  Public  Expenditures  on  Education.   Major
investments in education in Morocco during the past d4cade have led to
significant increases in enrollments, both in absolute terms and as a share of
school age population at each level (Annex Table 1). The pattern of growth
has been first an expansion of primary schooling and related teacher training,
then an expansion of capacity at successively higher levels of schooling as
student  outputs  increased  at  the end of  each cycle  of schooling.   This
progressive development of the education system, in the absence of an explicit
policy on student selection, has led to the expectation by students and
parents that students admitted to primary schooling will necessarily be able
to progress to successively higher levels of schooling. The desire for higher
levels of schooling has also been stimulated by civil-service recruitment
policies which favor secondary school graduates and, especially, university
graduates.   The resulting effort to meet the social demand for  access  to
progressively higher levels of schooling imparts a momentum to public
expenditures which is unique to the education sector.   At the  same  time,
private-sector participation in schooling, which accounts for less than 4X of
total primary and secondary enrollments, is far less extensive than in several
other countries in the regicn.  From the experience of other countries, it
would appear that greater private-sector participation could help to relieve
the public-sector financing requirements of education.



- 12 -
2.18     Education expenditures have thus eluded the control of policy-makers,
and have grown faster than all other categories of public expenditures.
Education expenditures now absorb 28.62 of government recurrent expenditures
(Annex Table 2), and would claim an even larger share of public expenditures
in the future unless the Government acts promptly to institute an appropriate
program of education sector reform.
2.19     Vocational  training  costs have not imposed an excessive claim on
government budgetary resources because most recurrent costs of vocational
training are met by a 1X wage bill tax paid by all modern-sector enterprises.
In order to maintain control of vocational training costs under an expanding
program of vocational training, the MPW is conducting a study of financing
options for application to future vocational training activities. This study,
currently in progress, will make specific recommendations about which of a
number of cost-control and cost-recovery options should be put into effect to
maintain  self-financing  of  vocational  training.   These  options  include:
(a) raising the salary tax rate; (b) extending the salary tax to public
enterprises which benefit from Office-provided training; (c) providing
incentives for private-sector employers to participate more fully in training;
(d) introducing training fees, accompanied by a trainee loan scheme; or
Ce) reducing the Office's recurrent budgetary requirements by meeting the
annual recurrent costs of the Office's post-secondary technician training
institutes (which benefit private-sector enterprises less directly than other
Office training activities) in part through student fees rather than through
receipts from the vocational training tax levy.   The Government has agreed
that it will implement the recommendations of the study as and when necessary
to maintain self-financing of vocational training.



- 13 -
IL. THE EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Objetives and Projected Impact
3.01     Obiectives.  To address the issues described in ChapLer I1 above, the
Government  has  embarked  on  a  comprehensive  program  of  education  sector
reform. The proposed Loan would support the implementation of the first phase
of the Education Sector Reform Program. The objectives of the reform program
are to address the issues described in Chapter II. above, by making the
provision  of  education  more  equitable,  more  cost-effective,  and  more
consistent with the country's medium-term development needs. It would do this
by:
(a) improving equity of education by increasing the share of education
resources devoted to primary and lower secondary education, with a
major increase in the number of students entering and completing
basic schooling (grades I through 9);
(b)  improving educational efficiency in terms of improved student flows
and improved employment orientation of schooling at all levels; and
tc) containing the growth of public expenditures on education through
reduction of unit costs, introduction of cost recovery measures, and
encouragement of private-sector participation.
The reform program, described in Annex A, and summarized in paragraph 3.08,
below, comprises a number of specific measures designed to meet each of these
objectives. At the same time, the Government would develop a number of new
pedagogical actions under the reform program to preserve the quality of
education programs while extending the coverage of basic education and while
controlling  the  growth  of  education  expenditures.   Performance  targets,
expressed in terms of enrollment parameters, facilities and staff utilization
indicators, and associated education costs, are presented in Attachment 2 to
Annex A.
3.02     The proposed reform program constitutes a fundamental reorientation
of national education goals away from a focus on producing university
graduates toward a concentration on improving access to basic education. The
Government is aware that its focus on higher education during the past decade
is not serving the country's current educational needs. The recent emergence
of unemployment among university graduates, together with the prospect of
uncontrolled education expenditures to maintain such a system in the future,
have led the Government to alter its education strategy. The key element of
the new strategy is the goal to provide basic schooling through grade 9 to all
children, followed by a rigorous selection of students for subsequent
studies.   Most  students  are  to  enter  vocational  training  after  basic
schooling;l' entry to upper secondary studies is to be limited to a minority
of basic schooling completers of highest scholastic performance.  The growth
of admissions to university faculties is to be slowed sharply in relation to
the historical trend, and is to be concentrated in those specializations which
respond  to national development needs.   Strict failure sanctions are to be
applied in order to motivate improved university student performance. Cost
The Government's program in vocational training, which is an important
complement to the Education Sector Reform Program, is described in
paragraphs 3.09 through 3.11.



- 14 -
recovery for education is to be introduced through registration fees for
university faculties and higher room and board fees for dormitory students.
Eligibility for university fellowships is to be linked to student performance
and needs.   Incentives  for private-sector education investments are to be
introduced in the form of an education investment code and improved control
and support by the MOE. The Government has deliberately sought to develop a
public consensus in support of the reform by situating the reform in the
context of restructuring in other areas and by involving teacher unions,
political parties, and other key interest groups in early deliberations on the
reform. Public response to the reform to date has been supportive (paragraph
5.02).  The Government has also established an appropriate monitoring and
implementation structure for carrying out the reform (paragraphs 4.17 et seq.).
3.03     These elements of the reform program reflect principles which are
essential to the long-run health of the education system and, indeed, of the
economy. Some of the reform measures, such as the conditioning of fellowship
eligibility upon student performance and need, also will yield significant
immediate savings of education expenditures  (Table 3.2).  These are to be
complemented by a number of other reform measures designed only to control
education costs. These include an increase in required teaching hours, more
intensive use of school facilities, streamlined school administration, and
cancellation of unneeded investment credits.
3.04     Proiected impacts.   In addition to improving several dimensions of
education quality, the reform measures (Annex A) are expected to lead to a
number of quantitative impacts on enrollments, promotion rates, and indices of
education resource use. The evolution of those variables under the reform
program is summarized in the list of performance targets for the reform
presented in Annex A, Attachment 2. As shown in Annex Table 3, new intakes to
primary schooling are proposed to increase under the reform program at an
average annual rate of 6.11 during the period 1984/85-1989/90, versus the
historical average increase of 3.01 during the past six years. The rate of
increase of new intakes to grade 1 would gradually subside thereafter to the
rate  of  population  growth  (currently  2.51).   The  feasibility  of  these
enrollment targets has been established in the context of MOE staff and
physical resources now available and likely to be available throughout
implementation of the reform program.  Although the enrollment  targets are
expected to be attained in the short run, attainment of the long-run targets
will require a very major effort in extending basic schooling to areas with
sparse  enrollment.   It  will  require  a  particular  effort  in  improving
enrollments of girls in rural areas.  The Government is proceeding with a
series of measures to achieve this objective (paragraph 3.08(a)iii). Once
these measures are implemented, it will be important to reassess the
longer-term enrollment targets of the reform in light of the observed
experience   of   these   interventions   (paragraph  4.19(c)i).    Significant
improvements in student flows at all levels are also proposed, particularly at
the end of the current five-year primary cycle: the promotion rate for grade
5 students would increase progressively from the current level of 37.91 to
87.02 in 1993.  To provide an order-of-magnitude indication of the size of
these reform program impacts, the projected evolution of enrollments, costs,
and resource use under the reform program is compared with the situation in
which grade 1 intakes continue to grow at the historical rate (3.0% per year
between 1978/79 and 1984/85) and all education efficiency rates, unit costs
and resource use coefficients are maintained at pre-reform (1984185) levels.
The results of the two series of projections are summarized in Tables 3.1 and
3.2.



- 15 -
Table 3.1: SUtMMARY INDICATORS OF FSTIMATED ENROLLME IMPACT
OF PROPOSED REFORM PROGRAM
1984/85         1989/90          1994/95         2000/01
Total Number of Students
Completing Nine-Year
Basic Schooling
A.  With Reform                 178,935          289,571          376,110          459,830
B.  Without Reform              178,935          213,801          188,547          215,649
Enrollments
A. With Reform
Basic Schooling
(Grades 1-9)              3,033,000        3,866,000       4,851,000        6,059,000
Enrollment Share                88X              89S              881              892
Annual Growth Rate                    4.91            4.51             3.71
Upper Secondary
(Grades 10-12)              300,000          320,000         455,000          540,000
Enrollment Share                 9S               7S               8Z               81
Annual Growth Rate                    1.3S            7.01             2.9P
University                  119,000          168,000          193,000         215,000
Enrollment Share                 31               41               41               31
Annual Growth Rate                   6.91             2.8S            -1.81
Total                     3,452,000        4,354,000        5,499,000       6,814,000
Enrollment Share               1002             1001             1001             100%
Annual Growth Rate                   4.61             4.71             3.61
B. Without Reform
Basic Schooling
(Grades 1-9)              3,033,000       3,001,000        3,310,000        3,941,000
Enrollment Share                88S              84X              841             851
Annual Growth Rate                  -0.22             2.01             2.91
Upper Secondary
(Grades 10-12)              300,000         395,000          370,000          376,000
Enrollment Share                 92              112              101               8X
Annual Growth Rate                   5.5S            -1.3X             0.31
University                  119,000          198,000          245,000         323,000
Enrollment Share                 3%               51               61               71
Annual Growth Rate                  10.21             4.31             4.6%
Total                     3,452,000       3,594,000        3,925,000        4,640,000
Enrollment Share               1002             1001             1001            1001
Annual Growth Rate                   1.1             2.62             4.32
SOURCE:  Based on projection model described in Annex B and reform program performance
indicators as sumarized in Attachment 2 to Annex A.  Figures shown in "Without
Reform" scenario are derived from application of base-year education efficiency
rates, unit costs and resource use coefficients, and a hypothetical rate of
growth of grade 1 intakes equal to the 1978/79-1984/85 historical average of
3.01.



- 16 -
3.05     The most important difference is that the number of students who
complete the nine-year program of basic schooling would be markedly higher
with the reform program than without it. As shown in the first two rows of
Table 3.1, it is estimated that, in 1989/90, 75,000 more students would
complete basic schooling with the reform program than without  it.  As the
reform program measures are progressively implemented and as students
benefitting from the program progress through the system, the difference
between the two series becomes more conspicuous:  By 1994/95, the number of
students completing basic schooling is estimated to be twice as large under
the  reform  program  than without  it.   In relative terms also,  the reform
program would favor basic schooling enrollments over enrollments at higher
levels: the share of enrollments in basic schooling would btl higher in every
period under the reform program than in the absence of the program.   Upper
secondary enrollments would grow much more slowly under the reform than in the
absence of the reform in the medium term.  After 1990, when it is expected
that budgetary resources will be able to support a higher growth of capacity
at this level, upper secondary enrollments are expected to grow at a higher
rate than in the absence of the reform.  University enrollments would grow
more slowly under the reform program--at an average rate of 3.7% per year
during the entire projection period (1984/85-2000/0l), versus 6.2% in the
absence of the program.  The growth of new intakes to university faculties
reveals in more graphic terms how the reform program would slow the
acceleration of university enrollments (Attachment 2 to Annex A, Table 6):
New intakos to university faculties over the period 1984/85-2000/01 would grow
at an average annual rate of just 1.9% per year under the reform program,
versus 4.9% per year in the absence of the program (and 13.7% actual growth
since 1978).



- 17 -
3.06       Costs  of  education  with  and  without  the  reform  program  have  been
estimated through a series of detailed projections of the costs of educational
inputs necessary to accoemmodate projected enrollments at each level.1'
Table 3.2: PROJECTEO EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
WITH AND WITHOUT PROPOSED REFORM PROGRAM
(in Millions af Constant January 1986 Dirhas. unless otherwise indicated)
Exnynditures with Raftrm                      Exonditures without Rterm
1984/85    1989/90    1994/95    2000/01        1954/8S    1989/90    1994/95    2000/01
Rasic Education (Grades 1-9)
Recurrent.                     3.667      4.197     4.935       6.179          3.680      3.825      4.100      4.870
Investment                     1.060       330       1.585      1.253          1.060        158        350        668
Uo_r DLScde   (Grades 10-12)
Recurrent                      1.002        885      1.171      1.371          1.002      1.342      1.266      1.287
Investment                        8        217         136       201               a        158         32         32
Hiahar rducation
Staft Salaries                  493        432        S24        581             493       839       1.117      1.42S
Student Fellowships.
Salaries and Other
Recurrent Expenditures         624        681        866       1.001            624      1.312      1.684      2.161
Minus Registration and
Boarding Fees                   -18        -74       -78         -81            -12        -12        -12        -12
Investment                       48         --        130        207             48        414        425        607
Teacher Training
Recurrent                       668        541        S41         541            668       639         666        666
Investment                       --          --        -          --             --         --          --         --
SE Administra ton
Recurrent                       Z53         262       290        3Z6             253       284        313         353
Investment                      3S9         --         --         --             359        --          --        --
Total M<E
Recurrent                     6.689      6.922      8.249      9.918          6.689      8.229      9.134      10.750
annual growth rate               0.7%        3.5S      3.1S                      4.1S       2.1S        2.7Z
Investment                     1.475       547       1.769      1.661          1.475       760        807       1.307
annual growth rate             -19.81      23.51       -1.0Z                    -13.3S       1-2Z      8.0S
GRAND TOTAL                   8.164      7.469      10.018     11.579         8.164      8.989      9.941      12.057
USSNillion Equivalent
(at OH 9.50 - USS1.00)         859        786      1.055      1.218            859        946      1.046      1.269
Annual Growth Rate               -1.81         5.9S       2.41                      1.9S      2.01         3.21
''   The projection methodology is described in Annex B.



- 18 -
Table 3.2 presents projected expenditures by MOE budget categories as they
appear in the annual government recurrent and investment budget (Loi de
Finances). Expenditure figures are presented for respective academic years
because of their linkage with school enrollments. The figures for the base
year, 1984/85, are consistent with the credits provided in the corresponding
budget  categories  of  the  Loi  de  Finances.   The  composition  of  these
expenditure allocations has been reviewed in detail with the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Finance in the context of the recent Joint
Public Investement Review (paragraph 1.04), and the preparation and appraisal
of the proposed education reform project.   The Bank is satisfied that the
current composition and the prospective evolution of these expenditures under
the reform are appropriate  to the  country's needs and  constraints.   The
figures in Table 3.2 clearly indicate two major features of the reform
program: first, that. it would make a major contribution to controlling the
growth of education costs; and, second, that it would lead to a marked
reallocation of education expenditures away from upper secondary and higher
education toward basic education. Total recurrent expenditures are projected
to increase in real terms at 0.7S per year during the first five years of the
reform program; total investment expenditures are projected to decline at
almost 20X per year in real terms, leading to an overall decline of 1.81 per
year in real MOE education expenditures during the period 1984/85-1989/90.
MOE expenditures would grow in real terms thereafter, but at significantly
lower rates than in the absence of the proposed reform program.  Total MOE
expenditures are projected to grow at the average annual rate of 2.2% over the
entire period 1984/85-2000/01 under the reform. The higher rate of growth of
total expenditures projected for the period 1989/90-1994/95 under the reform
(5.9X) reflects the fact that savings under the reform during its first five
years would reduce very significantly the total expenditure base against which
subsequent growth is compared. Expressed in absolute terms, total projected
expenditures are significantly lower with the reform than without it. That
the reform program favors basic education is evident in the figures for basic
education  and  higher  education  in  the  two  series:   Projected  recurrent
expenditures on basic education in the year 2000/01 are more than four times
as high ac recurrent expenditures on higher education under the reform
program.   In Ohe absence of the reform program,  recurrent expenditures on
higher education in the year 2000 would be 70% as much as recurrent
expenditures on basic education.
Policy Actions
3.07     To achieve the objectives described in paragrapx 3.01, the Government
would undertake a program of education policy reform affecting all levels of
the education system. The program consists of a number of specific actions to
be taken during the two-year first phase, to be followed by a series of
medium-term actions designed to follow up and consolidate the first-phase
initiatives.  Specific policy actions to be taken under Phase I and Phase II
of the reform are presented in the Statement of Education Sector Policy (Annex
A) and its attachments.  Progressive attainment of the quantitative goals of
the reform is to result from a combination of preparatory actions already
taken, actions to be taken during the first phase of the reform, and actions
to be taken during Phase II. Thus, the actions already taken to achieve each
reform objective are expected to lead to attainment of the end of Phase I
performance targets shown in Attachment 2 to Annex A. The reform actions to



- 19 -
be taken under Phase II of the program consist of introducing several new
pedagogical actions which are to be developed through studies under Phase I,
and continuing and reinforcing the measures to improve enrollments, student
flows. and cost control which are to be introduced under Phase I. The Phase
II reform actions would thus complement and complete the reform measures which
are to be introduced under Phase I. At the same time, the Phase I reform
measures are meritorious in their own right. The considerable progress which
the Government has achieved during the preparatory phase of the reform is
expected to be maintained through Phase I and Phase II, as described in the
Reform Program Implementation Schedule (Attachment 1 to Annex A). But the
Phase I reform measures would yield very desirable benefits in terms of all
three reform program objectives whether or not Phase II were implemented as
scheduled.
3.08     The reform program actions are suimnmarized as follows:
(a)  Expand  Access  to  Basic  Schooling.   Several  actions  would  be
undertaken to attain the intake and enrollment targets in basic
schooling described in paragraph 3.04 above, and presented in Table
3.1 and Annex A.   Most  important  of  these are implementing  the
necessary school building program, raising promotion rates, and
extending the network of basic schooling to favor rural areas:
Mi)  Implementing  the  necessary  school  building  program.   The
current primary and lower secondary school building program
would be maintained at the level necessary to expand classroom
capacity in line with the global enrollment targets of the
reform.-!  Schooling  investments  at  higher  levels  would be
sharply curtailed. The MOF would make the necessary budgetary
resources available on a timely basis; the MOE would implement
the program.-'
(ii) Raising promotion rates. The MOE would raise promotion rates
at all levels of basic schooling as shown in Attachment 2 to
Annex A. Improvements during the first year (Phase I) of the
reform   are   expected   to   arise   from   actions   already
taken-namely, the repetition restrictions put into effect in
October 1983 which limit class repetitions to a total of two
repeated years during the five-year primary cycle and two
repeated years during the seven-year secondary cycle.3'
Projected further improvements during the second year of the
reform are to be achieved through MOE instructions to regional
'-' The school building program averages about 2,900 new primary school
(grades 1-5) classrooms per year and about 2,300 new lower secondary
(grades 6-9) classrooms per year through 1987. Because enrollment ratios
are particularly low in rural areas, much of the school building effort
would concentrate on expanding the availability of classrooms in rural
areas.
2i   The organization and procedures for implementing the MOE school building
program are described in Annex F.
3/  Students who have repeated two years and who fail a third time would be
barred from continuing in public schooling, and would have the options of
vocational training, private schooling, or entering the job market.



- 20 -
delegations in the form of a circular setting out a mandatory
range of promotion rates for progression from each class year
to the next. (For the terminal class in each schooling cycle,
this will establish the pass threshold for the end-of-year
exam; for other classes, it will set the norm for passing
students based on assessment of each student's performance
record, or carnet de l'6leve.)   Because most students who
currently repeat are, according to consistent reports of
teachers   and   school   directors,   capable   of   performing
adequately in the next class, this increase by fiat in
promotion rates in the short term is not expected to erode
educational  quality.   In  the  medium  term,  the  MOE  is
developing several new programs which are designed to preserve
education quality as promotion rates are further increased and
as basic schooling is extended progressively in rural areas.
To  give   special   attention   to  students  with  learning
difficulties, a program of remedial instruction is to be
developed during Phase I for introduction during Phase II of
the reform program, initially on a pilot basis in schools of
greatest need. Studies are to be undertaken by the MOE during
Phase I of the reform to develop this program and the other
new educational activities waich are to be introduced during
Phase II of the reform.1'  The remedial instruction program
is to be introduced first in teacher training programs, then
in primary and secondary schooling. Further improvements in
student promotion rates during Phase II are to be achieved
through scheduled MOE instructions to regional delegations, as
in Phase I of the reform, complemented by improved supply of
basic teaching materials to schools and by introduction of the
program of diagnostic testing and remedial instruction.
(iii) Extending the basic schooling network. The network of primary
schools and lowe, secondary schools is to be extended to
promote   basic   schooling   attendance   in   rural   areas,
particularly among female students. School location planning
by the WOE ' is to give particular emphasis to these aspects
of generalizea basic schooling.   In many  rural areas,  low
population density makes it impossible to deliver cost-
effective basic education through conventional schools with a
separate class and teacher for each grade. Under the reform,
the MOE is to develop multigrade teaching in order to provide
cost-effective  basic  schooling  in  rural  areas  of  low
population density (paragraph 2.07). Programs for multigrade
teaching would be developed under Phase I and implemented in
basic schooling and teacher training programs under Phase II
of the reform. To encourage rural school attendance, the MOE
would also introduce a school lunch program for rural schools
-L   The  objectives  and  scope  of  the  Phase  I studies  to  develop  new
educational activities are described in Annex C. The studies are listed
in paragraphs 4.19(a)iv and 4.24.
AZ   The structures and procedures for school location planning by the MOE are
described in Annex E.



- 21 -
and would equip new rural schools with modest facilities
(cantines scolaires) for the program. The improved supply of
basic teaching materials (paragraph 3.08(a)(ii)) should also
encourage  improved  rural  school  attendance.   To  encourage
female school attendance, the MOE is to assign more female
teachers to rural schools (paragraph 2.09). The principal
obstacle to assigning female teachers to rural schools in the
past has been the lack of suitable facilities for teacher
housing. To help overcome this obstacle, the MOE would
provide  appropriate teacher housing facilities  in remotely
situated  new  primary  and  lower  secondary  schools;-'  in
assigning these facilities, the MOE would give priority to
female teachers and, especially, to teaching couples.
(b) Restrain Growth of Upper Secondary and Higher Education. Consistent
with  the  reform  objective  of  generalizing  basic  education  and
limiting higher education to students with the highest aptitudes,
several actions would be taken to impose more selectivity beyond
basic schooling:
(i)  Orientation  to vocational  training  after  basic schooling.
Promotion decisions at the end of basic schooling (grade 9)
are made and would continue to be made by comnissions
d' orientation in each lower secondary school, based upon
several   criteria,   including   the   student's  performance
throughout the year and in the end-of-year exam, the student's
preference for subsequent studies, and availability of places
in upper secondary schooling.  Under the reform, MOE would
issue directives to its regional delegations to raise the
threshold for promotion into upper secondary schooling in
order to tighten selectivity for subsequent studies. As shown
in Attachment 2 to Annex A, the percentage of grade 9 students
who progress to upper secondary schooling would decline from
562 before the reform to 40X at the start of Phase II.
Students not selected for upper secondary schooling would
receive a new diploma certifying satisfactory completion of
basic  schooling,  and  would  be  oriented  to  vocational
training.   Career  guidance  counselling  would  be  developed
under a study to be conducted during Phase I of the reform,
and introduced under Phase II.
'  There would be no charge to teachers for such housing, but teachers who
receive such housing would forfeit the housing allowance otherwise
provided among MOE non-salary benefits.



- 22 -
(ii)  Restrained growth of hiRher education.  The rate of growth of
new intakes to university faculties would be slowed sharply
under the reform program, from an average rate of growth of
132 during the past eight years to a maximum of 2% per year in
the future.  The Government's recent ruling which restricts
university   enrollments   by  civil   servants   has  already
contributed to this reduction. The additional instruments for
achieving the reductions are to be a more rigorous selection
of students at the end of basic schooling (para. 3.08(b)(i)),
and an increase in the pass score on the national baccalaur6at
exam taken at the end of secondary schooling (grade 12). For
students   obtaining   baccalaurC&at  scores  high  enough  to
establish acquisition of an acceptable level of secondary
school skills but not high enough to gain entry into the
university faculties, the MOE would award a new diploma, to be
distinct from the current baccalaureat diploma, to certify
satisfactory completion of secondary studies. Consistent with
these policies of slower growth of university admissions, the
program for new investments in university faculties would be
cancelled, together with the corresponding budgetary credits
of US$100 million.
(c)  Improve  Education  Efficiency.   The  MOE  would  carry  out  several
actions to improve educational efficiency-i.e., progressively reduce
repetition and dropout rates-at each level of schooling:
(i)  Improved  efficiencV  in  basic  schooling.   Improved  student
flows in basic schooling would be achieved through the
measures described in para. 3.08(a), and would be complemented
by several new pedagogical actions to be developed under Phase
I of the reform and introduced under Phase II: a program in
remedial instruction for students with learning problems, a
program in continuous evaluation by teachers of student
performance, a program in diagnostic testing, and a program in
use of standardized testing.
(ii)  Improved efficiencY in upper secondary schooling.   The MOE
would limit class repetition to a total of one year in upper
secondary (grades 9-12) schooling, and would issue directives
to regional MOE delegations as described in para. 3.08(a)(ii)
in order to achieve the improved progression rate targets
presented in Attachment 2 to Annex A.
(iii) Improved  efficiency  in  higher  education.   The  improved
efficiency   targets   for  higher  education   presented   in
Attachment 2 to Annex A would be pursued through several
actions.  Permissible class repetitions would be limited to
once during the first two years of university studies and once
during the second two years of university studies.  For the
first time, fellowship eligibility would be conditioned upon
satisfactory performance and financial need, with fellowship
eligibility being limited to students below a stipulated level



- 23 -
of household income, and with fellowship amounts being reduced
by half for non-resident students who repeat a year.
Fellowships would be eliminated altogether for resident
students who repeat a year of university studies or for
non-resident students who repeat more than two years of
studies. Fellowships for university studies abroad would be
eliminated for students repeating more than a single year of
studies. At the same time, cLass repetition would be further
reduced through the introduction of a credit-hour system.
Currently, a student failing a single subject is obliged to
repeat the entire year of course work. Under Phase I of the
reform, a student would be required to repeat only the failed
semester; under Phase II, students would be required to repeat
only  failed  courses  in  a given semester.  The MOE would
conduct studies during Phase I to develop a credit-hour system
and a diversified program of specializations of varying course
duration, and to start the work of improving the articulation
between secondary and university programs.
(d) Control Education Costs. The MWE would carry out a number of actions
under the reform program to control capital and recurrent costs of
education and to introduce cost recovery for education. Cost control
actions include adopting a more cost-effective formula for teacher
training, using educational resources more intensively, adopting more
rigid norms for construction of school facilities. and involving the
private sector in financing of education. Specific measures are:
Ii)  Introduction of cost recovery in hisher education.  In the
medium term, student registration fees would be imposed in the
university faculties and the existing fees for room and board
in university dormitories would be increased progressively.
The new student registration fee policy has recently been
announced by the Government and an implementation decree on
the policy has been prepared.
(ii)  Increased minimum  teaching  hours  in  university  faculties.
Minimnm required teaching hours for university faculty would
be increased by an average of 20 from the (1984/85) weekly
requirement of 7 contact hours for Professeurs, 9 hours for
Maitres de Conf6rence, 12 hours for Maitres Assistants, and 16
hours for Assistants. The new policy for increased faculty
teaching loads has been announced by the Government, and would
be implemented under Phase I of the reform.
(iii) Strengthened private-sector participation. During Phase I of
the reform, the recent draft legislation on incentives for
private-sector investments in education (Annex I) would be
reviewed and finalized for Government approval. Also during
Phase I, the MOE would carry out a study to develop a
strengthened program of MOE support for private schooling in
the areas of certification, quality control, and pedagogical
services, and  to  examine  the  likely subsidy  costs of an
investment incentive program to promote greater private-sector
participation in education.



- 24 -
(iv)   Adoption of more cost-effective program of teacher training.
Significant savings are projected through restoration of the
former teacher training program in which the MOE secondary
teacher training institutes provided just one year of applied
pedagogy training to students completing university studies
in science or liberal arts specializations, rather than the
complete two-year and four-year post-secondary programs
through which secondary school teachers are now trained. The
teacher training capacity made available through this change
would be used to strengthen in-service teacher training,
particularly in the new programs to be intrcduced under the
reform.
(v)   Lower teacher trainee stipends.  The former teacher trainee
salaries (presalaires) have been recently replaced with
stipends set at a level equal to university fellowships for
graduate studies.  Although these are about one-third  the
level of the former presalaires, this policy is not expected
to compromise adequate teacher supply because teacher trainee
applicants   are  numerous   in  relation  to  MOE  teacher
recruitment needs and are likely to remain so.
(vi)   Restriction   of   eligibility   for   foreign   university
fellowships.   In  addition  to  the  fellowship  performance
criteria described in para. 3.08(c)(iii), eligibility for new
university fellowships for study abroad would be limited to a
list of specializations relevant to national development
needs for which no courses of study are available in the
country.   The  list  of  eligible  specializations  recently
prepared by the MOE and reviewed by the Bank would be applied
under Phase I of the reform, updated annually, and maintained
under Phase II.
(vii)  Reduced boarding  in  university  faculties.   The  budgetary
credits for construction of new boarding facilities in
university faculties would be cancelled under the reform;
boarding in existing facilities would b- scaled down and,
where appropriate, diverted to higher priority uses.
(viii) Reduced unit costs of school construction. The revised norms
for primary school construction established during appraisal
(Annex G) would be implemented by the MOE under Phase I of
the reform. Also during Phase I, the MOE would conduct a
study to develop proposals for achieving economies in unit
costs of secondary school construction, to be implemented
under Phase II.
(ix)   Reinforce school maintenance services.  Increased budgetary
allocations for school maintenance would be used to improve
school maintenance services under Phase I of the reform. The
MOE would also conduct a study to develop a systematic
maintenance program for implementation under Phase II.



- 25 -
(x)   Improved efficiency of school administration.  The MOE would,
under Phase I of the reform, streamline the efficiency of
secondary   school  administration  as  reflected  in  the
administrative/teaching  staff  coefficients   presented  in
Attachment 2 to Annex A.  This initial efficiency improvement
would be carried out through MOE instructions to regional
delegations.   Also during Phase I of the reform, the MOE
would examine prospects for further economies in secondary
school staffing, based upon a study of secondary school
teacher utilization and specific tasks performed by each
category  of  secondary  school administrative  staff.   This
study would include an investigation of prospects for
reducing average teacher/student ratios without compromising
educational quality."L
Voetional Trai
3.09     A key element of the Education Sector Reform Program is an increased
orientation of students towards vocational training in order to begin to meet
the very sizeable unmet needs for skilled manpower, particularly in the
private sector.  Training of this  type had been neglected under earlier
government policies, and the Bank had long urged greater development of skill
training  capacity  to  begin  to  meet  priority  manpower  needs.   Expanded
vocational training capacity and improved career guidance counselling are
important complements to the Education Sector Reform Program, and are
recognized as such by the Government and by the Bank. In 1984, the Government
embarked on a national mobilization of vocational training activities,
consisting of:
(a) an administrative restructuring of vocational training, in which
responsibility for vocational training was transferred to the MPW, a
dynamic and important ministry;
(b) a major expansion of vocational training capacity, particularly in
the  area  of  medium-level  industrial  skill  training  to  meet
private-sector manpower needs; the core of this expansion program
consists of the 22 new vocational training centers and mobile
training units being acquired by the Office under the Vocational
Training Project (approved by the Board in November 1984); numerous
additional facilities were also made available by other ministries
for Office vocational training programs; these facilities are in the
process of being equipped and staffed for operation; and
Average teacher/student ratios for primary and secondary schooling
(Attachment 2 to Annex A, Table 3) appear to allow room for some
economies  through  larger  class  size.   Prospects  for  realizing  such
economies need to be examined in light of the proposed expansion of basic
schooling in rural areas, where class sizes are typically less than in
urban areas due to the dispersed nature of rural population.



- 26 -
(c) a call for increased participation in vocational training by the
private sector, consisting initially of donated workshop equipment
for  vocational   training  in  Office  training  facilities;  very
significant donations of such equipment have already been made by
private sector enterprises.
3.10     The launching of this vocational training program has been managed
vigorously and effectively.   Through multiple  shift operation of existing
training facilities and through use of newly converted facilities, first-year
intakes in technical and vocational training programs of all descriptions
increased from 35,000 in October 1983 to 123,000 in October 1984, and 143,000
in October 1985.  This extremely rapid growth in training capacity reflects
the Government's desire to make up for the past neglect of vocational
training.   Future growth of training capacity is planned to proceed at a
slower pace. The Government aims eventually to provide vocational training
for all school leavers below the baccalaureat level; current vocational
training capacity is adequate to absorb slightly over half of all school
leavers. As long as training places remain insufficient to accommodate all
school leavers, the current practice of competing for training places will
need to continue. One positive feature of this competition is that it has
helped to reduce the traditional bias in public perceptions against vocational
training.  Public perceptions of the value and attractiveness of vocational
training have improved demonstrably during the past two years as the number of
applicants for vocational training places has grown even faster than the
number of vocational training places.  As the number of school leavers is
projected to rise under the reform program, it is likely that the Government
will have to rely increasingly upon other forms of training to meet this
training objective within prevailing  financial  constraints.   One promising
form of training is in-enterprise apprenticeship training, which could be an
alternative source of training for those school leavers who do not find a
place  in  formal  pre-service  training programs.  The Office  is currently
conducting a study under the Vocational Training Project to identify practical
means of stimulating apprenticeship training to play such a role.
3.11     The current expansion of vocational training appropriately focuses on
those skills for which a demonstrated manpower need exists.   The study of
medium-term manpower needs being carried out by the Ministry of Planning
(paragraph 2.03) is to identify other priority areas for future expansion of
vocational   training   capacity.    The  micro-level   counterpart   of   this
identification of aggregate manpower needs is the process of feedback from
employers to vocational training programs as to the relevance and the quality
of training programs from the users'  perspective.   In order to assure  the
continuing quality and relevance of its training programs to employers' needs,
all Office training institutions have advisory councils with representatives
of   employers'   councils,   trade  unions,   and   the  respective  training
institutions.   These  councils  function  effectively  in  providing  prompt
feedback from employers on the quality and relevance of training programs. In
doing so, the advisory councils play a key role in assuring a suitable match
between training program content and needs of employers. Office procedures
for updating and modifying training program content in response to this
feedback provide the necessary flexibility in program content.



- 27 -
IY. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Ratonale and Objeives
4.01     As  described  in paragraph  1.04,  the  Bank  has  been  involved  in
discussions with the Government on the education sector reform program since
1981. Discussions were held initially with the MOE on technical aspects of
the reform, and were later broadened to involve other ministries and other
levels of Government in a re-examination of the ultimate objectives of
education in a medium-term perspective.  The reform program which emerged from
this process, and which the Government is committed to implement, fully
embodies the recommendations made by the Bank throughout these discussions.
The purpose of the proposed Loan is to support the overall reform and to
assist the Government in carrying out reform activities during the first
phase. Thus, the objectives of the proposed Loan are the objectives of the
reform-vzamely,  to make  the  provision  of educacion  in  the country more
equitable, more cost-effective, and more consistent with the country's
medium-term development needs (paragraph 3.01).
4.02     In order to permit launching the reform program during a period of
acute financing need, a Loan amount of US$150 million  is proposed.  The
proposed Loan would finance 60Z of the estimated foreign cost and about 81 of
the US$1.8 billion estimated total cost of the reform program during the
critical two-year first phase of reform implementation. (Because the reform
program encompasses all domains of the MOE's activity, reform program costs
during  this  period  comprise  all  MOE  expenditures.)  Phase  I of  reform
implementation covers the period January 1986 through December 1987.''
During this first phase, to be supported by the proposed Loan, the structure
of the education reform would be put into place: the reorientation of the
school system would be clearly established and supported by reallocated shares
of education resources; the recently introduced fellowship eligibility
restrictions would be generalized; and a series of measures would be put into
effect to improve the efficiency of use of teacher and classroom resources at
each level of schooling. Programs would also be developed during this first
phase for vital new pedagogical activities (including remedial instruction,
career counseling, multi-grade teaching, and teacher upgrading) and for
further cost efficiency measures which would be put into effect during the
subsequent  phase  of  the  reform  program.   These  measures  would  lead  to
continued improvements in qlality, efficiency, and enrollments during the
second phase of the reform program.  Thus, the main impact af the reform
during the first phase of implementation would be on enrollments and costs;
during the second phase of reform implementation, new pedagogical activities
would be introduced and further improvements would be made in student flows
and use of educational resources.
Retroactive  financing  is recommended for some expenditures dating to
September 1985, the beginning of the 1985/86 school year (paragraph 4.14).



- 28 -
Prga Costs
4.03     Summary  of  Program  Costs.   The  total  cost  of  reform  program
implementation during Phase I of the reform, expressed on an expenditure
basis, is estimated at DR 17,377 million, or US$1,829 million. Corresponding
foreign costs are estimated at US$250 million. The composition of estimated
Pbase I reform program costs by sub-program is sunmmarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: PHASE I REFORM PROGRAM COSTS BY SUB-PROGRAM
S Total
Millions of             Millions of         Phase I
Current DR              Current US$       Program
Expenditure Item    Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Costs
Basic Education          9,630   1,656   11,286   1,014      174   1,188    65.0S
Upper Secondary
Education               1,923      64    1,987      202       7     209    11.4%
Teacher Training         1,181       3    1,184      124       -      124     6.8%
University Education    1,800      405    2,205      189      43      232    12.71
MOE Administration         426    1ll       537       45      12       57     3.1S
IBRD Fourth and
Fifth Projects  '        _ 45     133      178        5      14       19     1.01
TOTAL PEASE I COSTS    15.005   2.372   17,377   1,579       250   1,829   100.02
a! The content of the IBRD Fourth and Fifth Education Projects is summarized in
paragraph 4.09, footnote 1.



- 29 -
4.04     The composition of estimated Phase I reform program costs by category
of expenditure is summarized in Table 4.2:
Table 4.: PEASE I REFORM PROGRAM COSTS
BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDlTURE
-  Total
Millions of              Millions of        Phase I
Current DH               Current US$        Program
Category of Expenditure  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Costs
Investment
Primary and Secondary
School Construction       2,296   1,467   3,763       241      155     396    21.7Z
Equipment and
Furniture:
Primary and Secondary      66      200     266        7       21      28      1.5S
IBRD 4th, 5th Projecte    45       133     178        5      14       19     1.0O
Other                      32       98     130        3       10      13     0.71
Subtotal                2,439   1.898   4,337       256     200      456    24.9%
Recurrent
Salaries and
Benefits:
Teacher Training          520       -      520       54      -        54     3.01
Otner a/               10,149       -   10,149   1,069       -    1,069    58.41
Fellowships and
Stipends:
University Fellowships   395       303     698       41      32       73     4.0Z
Teacher Training
Stipends                 655       -      655       69      -        69     3.8Z
Secondary Fellowships b/ 211        -      211       23      -        23     1.21
Educational Materials:
Primary and Secondary    125        54     179       13       6       19     1.11
Teacher Training            6        3       9        1      -         1     0.11
Other                     268      114     382       28      12       40     2.11
School Maintenance          237       -      237       25      -        25     1.41
Subtotal               12,566      474  13,040   1.323       50   1.373    75.11
TOTAL PHASE I COSTS      15.005   2.372  17.377   1.579       250   1,829   100.01
a/  Consisting of primary, secondary, and higher education, and MOE central
and regional administration.
b/ For boarding students, to offset boarding fees.



- 30 -
Estimated Phase I reform program costs, both by sub-program and by category of
expenditure for each of the two fiscal years encompassing Phase I of reform
program implementation, are presented in Annex Table 4.
4.05     Bases of Cost Estimates.  Reform program costs are based on observed
unit costs as of appraisal (April/May 1985) for each of more than 30
categories of investment and recurrent education expenditures. The evolution
of costs under Phase I of the reform has been estimated with the cosr
projection  model  described  in Annex  B.   Detailed  projection  results  are
available in the appraisal working papers. Reform program costs for each of
the two fiscal years which span Phase I of reform implementation have been
reviewed in detail with the MOE and MOF; they are both reasonable and
consistent with available and planned MOE budgetary credits by line item in
the Loi de Finances.
4.06     Customs  Duties and Taxes.  Program cost estimates do not include any
identifiable customs duties or taxes, although local costs of civil works do
include indirect taxes amounting to about 15% of total civil works costs. The
few directly imported materials and equipment for the program are exempt from
customs duties under the provision of the UNESCO accord, agreed by the
Government, concerning educational inputs.
4.07     Inflation Rates.   To facilitate comparison with budgetary credits,
program  costs  are  presented  in  terms  of  current  prices.   Program  cost
estimates incorporate the estimated incidence of inflation over the period
from negotiations to forecast expenditures on Phase I reform program
implementation, based on local annual inflation rates of 10.02 for 1986 and
6.0  for  1987.   These  rates  are  consistent with  Bank estimates  of  the
incidence of local inflation during the Phase I reform implementation period.
Based on mission estimates of the composition of reform program expenditures
and the prospective impact of international  inflation,  the scme rates are
applied  to  direct  and  indirect  foreign  costs.   No  separate  physical
contingencies are included in cost estimates for the reform program because
these cost estimates are based upon observed unit costs which incorporate a
small but inseparable physical contingency component for physical inputs.
4.08     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$250 million, or about 14S of estimated program costs.  The estimated
foreign exchange component is based on mission  estimates  of  the indirect
foreign  exchange  components  of civil works  (41X),  architectural  services
(251), furniture (60X), and educational materials (30X), and on the
expectations  that:  (a) all  labor and materials  for civil works will  be
available locally and that all construction contracts will be awarded to local
or locally based contractors; (b) architectural services will be provided by
local or locally established joint Moroccan/foreign firms; (c) all furniture
and educational materials contracts will be awarded to local manufacturers,
since manufacturing capabilities are good in the country; (d) all equipment
will be imported; (e) local storage and transport costs will comprise 10% of
the delivered cost of equipment; and (f) university fellowships for studies
abroad will continue to be paid entirely in foreign exchange. The resulting
foreign exchange content of each category of base costs is as follows:
(a) civil works (construction and architectural services), 391; (b) furniture,
601; (c) equipment, 90%; (d) educational materials, 301; and (e) university
fellowships for study abroad, 1001.  Expenditures on salaries and benefits,
and school maintenance are assumed to comprise no foreign costs.



- 31 -
4.09     Allocation of Loan Proceeds.  The proposed Bank Loan would finance
US$150 million of the estimated US$250 million foreign exchange cost of Phase
I reform program implementation shown in Tables 4.1 and 4.2. The Loan would
be disbursed against part of the 1986/87 program of primary and secondary
school construction (including limited lunchroom, boarding, and teacher
housing facilities in remote rural areas, as well as related equipment and
furniture),  provision of basic educational materials,  teacher training for
primary and secondary school teachers, and overseas university fellowships.
An  additional  US$14  million,  representing  the  foreign  exchange  cost  of
completing the ongoing Fourth and Fifth Education Projects, would be provided
under  those projects.-'   All  remaining costs  of  Phase  I  reform  program
implementation, amounting to an estimated US$86 million of foreign costs and
US$1.6 billion of  local  costs,  would  be  borne  by  the  Government.   The
indicative allocation of Loan proceeds by program category of expenditure and
by calendar year of Phase I implementation is summarized in Table 4.3:
1/  The Fourth and Fifth Education Projects  support  the construction and
equipping  of  education,  technical  education,  and  teacher  training
institutions which are compatible with the reform program objectives and
content.  Most of the institutions being financed under these projects are
completed and operational; the remaining US$14 million of r'-imbursable
expenditures to be made under these projects consists largely oxi the final
complement of workshop equipment for some of the technical education
components.   The  Government  has  indicated  that  it may use  technical
assistance funds available under the Fifth Education Project (Loan Closing
Date March 31, 1988) to finance the 48 man-months of consultanc-es for the
reform program studies to develop new educational activities (paragraph
3.08(a)ii and Annex C).



32
Table 4.3: PHASE I REFORM PROGRAM COSTS AND
DIMICATIVE ALLOCATION OF WOAN PROCEEDS
BY CATEGORY OF PROGRAM EXPENDrE
Phase I Reform Program Costs,
Indicative Allocation of Loan Proceeds in Parentheses
(Total Costs in Millions of US$)
Category of                                                          Total
Program Expenditure                 CY 1986           CY 1987           Phase I
Primary and Secondary
School Construction
and Related Services                172               224                396
(7)             (19)                (26)
Equipment, Furniture and
Educational Naterials:
Primary and Secondary              21                26                 47
(2)              (4)                 (6)
IBRD 4th, 5th Ed. Projects a/    16                   3                 19
(0)               (0)                (0)
Other                              28                26                 54
(0)              (0)                 (0)
University Fellowships:
Studies in Morocco                 22                19                 41
(0)              (0)                 (0)
Foreign Studies                    17                15                 32
(17)             (15)                (32)
Teacher Training                       62                62                124
(Salaries, Benefits, Stipends,       (49)              (37)               (86)
Educational Naterials)
Other Program Costs                   541               575              1,116
(O)              (0)                 (0)
Total Program Costs               879               950              1,829
(75)             (75)               (150)
a/  The Fourth and Fifth Education Projects  support  the  constructior. and
equipping of education, technical education, and teacher training
institutions which are compatible with the reform program objectives end
content (see footnote 1, paragraph 4.09).



- 33 -
4.10     Disbursements  under  the proposed  Loan would be made against the
following Phase I reform program expenditures, subject to the tranche release
conditions described in paragraph 4.11 and the procurement procedures
described in paragraph 4.16:
(a) 651 of total expenditures on civil works and associated professional
services for primary and secondary school construction;
(b) 100l of foreign expenditures and 751 of local expenditures on
equipment, furniture, and educational materials for primary and
secondary schooling, and teacher training;
(c) 100l of foreign expenditures on university fellowships (including
retroactive financing from September 1, 1985);
(d)  80S  of  recurrent  expenditures  on  teacher  training:   salaries,
stipends, travel and accommodation allowances in MOE teacher training
institutions, where payment is made before January 1, 1987 (including
retroactive financing from September 1, 1985);
(e) 60X of recurrent expenditures (salaries and teacher training occuring
on or after January 1, 1987; and
(f) 65S of total expenditures on consultant services.
In order to expedite reform program implementation, reimbursement is proposed
for civil works payments made after Loan signature against contracts awarded
in confcrmity with current Bank approved procedures since January 1, 1983-at
which time the Government's primary and secondary school building program was
evaluated by the Bank in the context of preparation of the proposed Education
Sector  Reform  Loan.   No  retroactive  fiir,aacing  would  be  provided  for
expenditures made prior to Loan signature, although retroactive financing is
proposed  for  other  categories  of  expenditures  (paragraph  4.14).   No
disbursements would be made under the proposed Loan against the remaining
US$19  million   of   expenditures   (including  US$14  million  of  foreign
expenditures) to be carried out under the ongoing Fourth and Fifth Education
Projects. As these projects are implemented by a separate MOE project
directorate under separate budgetary credits and project accounts, there is no
likelihood that expenditures and disbursements under these projects would be
intermingled with expenditures to be reimbursed under the proposed Loar..
4.11     Loan  proceeds  would  be  made  available  for  disbursement  in  two
tranches of US$75 million each.  The first tranche would be available for
disbursement upon effectiveness, estimated at June 1, 1986.  The Bank would
conduct an interim performance review by December 31, 1986 to establish
whether reform implementation warranted release of the second tranche
(paragraph 4.24).
4.12     The MOE has demonstrated that it has the capacity to implement the
first phase reform program effectively at the pace implied by the programmed
expenditure  figures  in Tables  4.1,  4.2 and Annex Table 4.   Through its
efficient  procedures  for  school  construction   (Annex F),  the  MOE  has
successfully implemented in the recent past a school building and eauipment



- 34 -
program as extensive as that programmed for Phase I of the reform program
(para.  4.20).   Recent  MOE  activities  in  teacher  training  and  foreign
fellowship training have also been of the same scale as those programed for
the first phase of the reform.
4.13     Disbursements  for  teacher  training  fellowships  and  civil  works
contracts estimated to cost less than US$500,000 would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures. Full documentation on eligible expenditures would
be made available to the Bank on request. Disbursements for other civil works
and for all goods would be made on the basis of full withdrawal
documentation. Disbursements under the proposed Loan are expected to conform
to the expenditure figures showr in Table 4.3 for teacher training,
fellowships, and equipment, furniture and educational materials. Disbursement
is scheduled to be completed by the proposed Closing Date of December 31,
1988. The estimated schedule of disbursements is presented in Table 4.4:
Table 4.4 ESTIMATED SCHEDUILE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements (US$ Million)
Semester                 Cumulative
June 30, 1986                         36.5                       36.5
December 31, 1986                     32.5                       69.0
June 30, 1987                         32.0                      101.0
December 31, 1987                     35.0                      136.0
June 30, 1988                          9.0                      145.0
December 31, 1988                      5.0                      150.0
There is no standard disbursement profile relevant to the proposed Loan. The
single other completed Loan in Morocco with a two-stage tranche release
disbursement formula, the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (Loan
2377-MOR), was fully disbursed in May 1985-twelve months after effectiveness
and  release  of  the  first  tranche.   The  longer  (2-1/2  years)  estimated
disbursement period for the proposed Education Sector Reform Program Loan
reflects the expected cadence of reimbursable expenditures and the expected
time required for compilation and submission of the necessary documentation
for disbursements.



- 35 -
4.14     In order to expedite implementation of the reform program, up to
US$20  million  of  retroactive  financing  is recommended  to finance  reform
program expenditures on teacher training and overseas fellowships occurring
between September  1, 1985 and signature of the proposed Loan.  A Special
Account to be established in the Central Bank is proposed to expedite reform
program implementation, with a proposed replenishment ceiling of US$20
million-equivalent  to  the  four-month  average  reimbursable  expenditure
requirement during the disbursement period of the proposed Loan.
4.15     Procurement.  Goods and services to be disbursed against under the
proposed Loan would be procured according to the following procedures:
Table 4.5: PROPOSED PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
(Total reimbursable costs, in millions of current US$;
figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the proposed Loan)
Reform Program                          Procurement Pr;_edure             Total
Category of Expenditures               ICB       LCB     Other            Cost
Primary and Secondary
School Construction
and Related Services                   -        396        -               396
(26)                       (26)
Primary and Secondary
School Equipment,
Furniture and
Educational Materials                  24        23        -               47
(6)                                 (6)
University Fellowships                  -         -         73               73
(32)            (32)
Teacher Training                        -         -        124              124
(Salaries, Benefits, Stipends                             (86)            (86)
and Educational Materials)
Other Program Costs                     -         -      1,189            1,189
(0)             (0)
TOTAL                                 24      419      1,386            1,829
(6)     (26)     (118)            (150)



- 36 -
4.16     Contracts for civil works to be reimbursed under the proposed Loan
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank (LCB), in view of:  (a) the
wide geographic dispersion of schools to be constructed; (b) the small average
contract value of each school (about US$200,000); and, subsequently, (c) the
anticipated lack of interest by foreign firms, as experienced in the ongoing
Fourth and Fifth Education Projects.   Prevailing local competitive bidding
procedures are generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency
in the execution of the project. There are, lico.ever, a few procedures which
require modification in order to be acceptable to the Bank. These procedures
and proposals to improve them are detailed in Annex Ii. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that LCB procedures for
procurement under the proposed Loan would be modified so as to be acceptable
to the Bank (paragraph 6.02). All equipment, furniture and materials to bp
reimbursed under the proposed Loan would be procured under Bank-approved ICR
procedures, except for educational materials which may be procured through
UNICEF. Prior Bank review of procurement decisions would be required for all
contracts for goods and all contracts for civil works estimated to cost
US$500,000 or more.  It is expected that about half of total purchases under
the   equipment/furniture/materials   category,   consisting   of   items   not
manufactured locally, will occur under ICB. Foreign fellowships and recurrent
costs of teacher training would be paid directly by the MOE--on a monthly
basis in the case of recurrent expenditures on teacher training, and quarterly
in the case of fellowships.  Expenditures by the MOE for most of the other
program costs shown in Table 4.5, consisting principally of teacher salaries,
would be made in the same fashion.
4.17     ImplementaLion of the reform program itself is to be carried out by
existing operational units of the MOE1' under the supervision of the MOE's
Commission de la Reforme Educative.-! The Commission, which was established
under the authority of the Minister of Education during preparation of the
proposed project, is chaired by the MOE Secretary General for Primary and
Secondary Education and comprises the Secretary General for Higher Education
and the Directors of the key MOE departments involved in the reform:   the
departments of planning for primary/secondary e-ducation and higher education,
the line departments for primary education, secondary education, technical
education, higher education, and teacher training, and the infrastructure
departments for administration and personnel.
4.18     Coordination of reform implementation covering the various ministries
involved in tbe reform is to be asstred by the existing and active
Interministerial Steering Committee.   The Committee,  which was  established
under the authority of the Prime Minister in December 1984, is chaired by the
Minister of Economic Affairs and comprises the Ministers of Education,
Finance, Public Works and Vocational Training, and Planning. The
The organixational structure of the MOE is presented in Annex E.
Zi The MOE implements all education programs except the construction of some
secondary schools.   As described in Annex  G,  the MPW  implements  the
traditional masonry co3struction program for secondary schools accardirr
to plans prepared by the MOE.



- 37 -
Interministerial Steering Committee has established the respective roles of
the ministries involved-namely, implementation of the policy reforms and the
primary school building program by  the  HOE,  provisioi of  the necessary
budgetary resources by the MOF, vocational training coordination and
implementation of the secondary school building program by the MPW, and
elaboration of the development planning context (particularly in terms of
planned enrollment growth and the corresponding scLool building program) of
the reform by the MOP.  The Comittee would continue to meet periodically
during  reform  implementation  to  resolve  questions  of  interministerial
coordination  as  they  arise.   Working-level  contact among  the  ministries
involved in the reform would be assured through technical working groups which
have been established in the Ministries of Economic Affairs, Public Works and
Vocational Training, and Planning, under the coordination of the MOE's Reform
Implementation Task Force.
4.19     The MOE Reform  Implementation Task Force is to assist the MOE's
Commission de La Reforme Educative in supervising implementation of the
reform.  It is also to report to the Interministerial Steering Committee and
to the Bank on  implementation of the reform.  The respective roles  and
composition of the Commission de la Reforme Educative and the Reform
Implementation  Task  Force  provide  for  the  necessary  flexibility  in
implementation and monitoring of the reform program. As shown in Annex D, the
Reform Implementation Task Force is directly accountable to the Commission de
la Beforme  Educative chairman-the HOE Secretary General for Primary and
Secondary  Education.   The chairman  of the  Task  Force, designated  during
appraisal of the proposed project, is the director of MOE's Department of
Planning for Primary and Secondary Education. The Task Force consists of HOE
technical cadres of suitable skills and experience who have been designated to
work on the task force for the duration of the reform. The Task Force is
providing support to the Coumission de la Reforme Educative in the following
areas of reform implementation:  (a) coordination among MOE departments, and
(b)  liaison  with  the  Bank, and  (c) monitoring and reporting.  Critical
activities in each of these areas are summarized as follows:
(a) Coordination within MOE:
(i) Enrollment Planning
- Work with planning departments to assure conformity of
enrollment projections with reform targets.
- Work with education departments to prepare instructions to
MOE regional diligations1' on revised criteria to attain
enrollment targets.
The structure and roles of the MOE regional delegations are described in
Annex E, Part 1B.



- 38 -
(ii) Facilities and Staff Programming
-  Supervise preparation by planning departments of facilities
plan for next rentree scolaire to reflect enrollment targets,
distribution objectives, and efficiency objectives including
use-intensity   norms   (multiple   shifting   and  multigrade
teaching).
-  Supervise  planning,  purchase,  and  distribution  of  basic
teaching materials by departments of primary and secondary
education.
-  Supervise preparation by planning departments  of  building
program for new facilities, to reflect revised construction
norms and use-intensity norms.
-  Supervise preparation by planning departments and  teacher
training   department   of   plan   for   staff   allocation,
recruitment, and training, including allocation criteria to
promote assignment of female teachers and female enrollment
in rural areas.
(iii) Budget Planning
-  Supervise planning of MOE budget  requests  for 1986,  1987
investment and recurrent budgets, consistent with programmed
facilities and staff, and reform objectives.
(iv)  Development of New Programs
- Supervise recruitme-nt of consultants and performance of
studies   to   develop   nev   educational   activities   for
implementation during Phase II of the reform. Studies are to
be conducted by the MOE to develop new activities in the
following   areas:      standardized    achievement   testing,
diagnostic   testing,   remedial   instruction,   multi-grade
teaching,  in-service  teacher  training,  career  guidance
counseling,   articulation   of   secondary   and   university
curricula,    diversification    of    university    programs,
introduction    of   a   university    credit-hour    system,
strengthening MOE support to private schooling, streamlining
secondary school administration, achieving further economies
in secondary school construction, and school maintenance.
The objective and scope of the studies, including anticipated
consultant  inputs,  are  presented  in  Annex  C.   Terms  of
reference for the studies are available in the reform program
working papers (Annex J, item C.6).
(b) Liaison with the Bank
(i) Confer with the Bank on the implementation of the reform
jrogram; review implementaton experience as condition for
release of second tranche.



- 39 -
(ii) Based upon experience in implementation of reform Phase I and
programs developed under studies (Annex D), confer with the
Bank to develop proposal for Phase II reform program.
(c) Monitoring and Reporting
(i) Educational Impacts
- Monitor from data compiled by directorates of planning and
education the evolution of enrollments and student flows in
relation  to  reform  program  targets.    Adjust   long-term
enrollment targets in light of observed impact of initial
reform measures.
- Monitor the experience of reform program incentives for
encouraging rural school attendance, particularly by female
students.
- Review findings of the study on rural school attendance
(paragraph 2.09); based on these findings, plan appropriate
additional measures to promote rural school attendance.
- Monitor the provision of basic educational materials to
primary and secondary schools.
(ii) Use of Educational Inputs
-  Monitor  the  use  of  educational inputs  at each  level in
relation to reform program performance targets.
(iii) Budget Monitoring
- Monitor status and use of MOE budgetary credits by category
in relation to reform program targets.
(iv) Reporting
-  Prepare semi-annual reports to the Commission de la Reforme
Educative, to the Interministerial Steering Committee, and to
the Bank on reform impacts listed in items (c.i) through
(c.iii), above.
- Prepare consolidated report on findings and recommendations
of studies to be carried out during Phase I (item (a.iv),
above, and Annex D).
- Prepare completion report upon termination of Phase I reform
program.
4.20     The Government provided assurances  at negotiations  that it would
maintain the Commission de la Reforme Educative, the Interministerial Steering
Committee, and the Reform Implementation Task Force throughout Phase I of the
Reform  with membership and  terms of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank
(paragraph 6.01(a)).



- 40 -
4.21     In view of  the basic  education  thrust  of the reform,  the MOE's
Department of Planning for Primary and Secondary Education is to play a key
role  in  planning and implementation of the reform.  The functions of the
Department, described in Annex E. include (a) projecting primary and secondary
enrollments  by  level  and  locality,  (b)  programming   the  allocation  of
classroom facilities and staff  resources  to accommodate  enrollment needs,
(c) preparing   the   primary   and   secondary   school   building   program,
(d) implementing  the primary  school building program,  and  (e)  conducting
studies to evaluate ongoing MOE progruam  and to develop new progranm.  The
Department performs these functions effectivell through structures and
procedures  which are described  in Annexes E and  F.  The Department has
adequate capacity to implement school construction as programmed under the
reform.  This capability  is  confirmed by  its performance  in implementing
school construction during the last five years, shown in Table 4.6:
Table 4.6: CLASSROONMS DEIIVERED BY LEVEL
(1981-85)
Schooling Level               1981      1982       1983      1984       1985
Primary                      3,464     3,327      2,753     2,952      3,219
Secondary                    1,685     3,427        903       650      1,546
In view of this demonstrated school construction capacity, implementation of
the Phase I school construction program (2,961 primary classrooms and 1,725
secondary classrooms in 1986, 2,890 primary classrooms and 3,031 secondary
classrooms in 1987) in expected to be timely and efficient.
Monitorin and Trncihe Release
4.22     The Government has provided a Letter of Education Sector Policy which
suimarizes the objectives and policy content  of  the  reform program.   The
content and timing of the reform measures to be implemented under the Program
are more fully described in the Statement of Education Sector Policy (Annex
A), the Summary of Reform Measures and Implementation Schedule (Attachment 1
to Annex A), and the Table of Performance Indicators (Attachment 2 to Annex
A). The zontent of the reform program, as described in these documents, was
reviewed at negotiations and found to be acceptable to the Bank (paragraph
6.01).



- 41 -
4.23     The  following  government actions  under  the  reform  program  were
confirmed at negotiations for the proposed reform program Loan:
(a) The Government has provided 1986 budgetary allocations which are
adequate to support timely implementation of the Phase I school
building program and the program of improved supply of educational
materials in basic schooling (Attachment 2 to Annex A, Table 3).
(b) Student flows to lower secondary schooling for the 1985/86 school
year were improved in October 1985 in conformity with the target
promotion rate for grade 5 (about 47Z) as stipulated in Attachments 1
and 2 to Annex A.
(c) The growth of upper secondary schooling was slowed in October 1985 in
conformity with the target promotion rate for grade 9 (about 50S) as
stipulated in Attachments 1 and 2 to Annex A.
(d) The growth of university education was slowed in October 1985 in
conformity with the agreed 2% ceiling for annual growth of total new
intakes to the university faculties.
(e) The Government maintained university fellowship award acco-ding to
agreed criteria (Attachment 1 to Annex A, Item IIIA4).
4.24     Based in part on the implementation report to be prepared by the MOE
Reform Implementation Task Force (paragraph 4.19(c)iv), the Bank would conduct
an interim performance review by December 31, 1986, in order to assess whether
reform program implementation progress during the first year of Phase I
warranted release of the second tranche (paragraph 6.01(c)). Implementation
performance in relation to all reform program targets shown in Annex A and its
attachments would be monitored; tranche release would be conditioned on
satisfactory progress in carrying out measures to:
(a) maintain the school building program for expanded basic schooling
(2,900 new primary school clasprooms to be operational at the start
of the 1986/87 school year);
(b) maintain the program for improved supply of educational materials in
primary education;
(c) conduct the program of studies to develop new educational activities
in standardized achievement testing, diagnostic testing, remedial
instruction,  multi-grade  teaching,  in-service  teacher  training,
career guidance counseling, articulation of secondary and university
curricula, diversification of university programs, introduction of a
university credit-hour system, strengthening MOE support to private
schooling, streamlining secondary school administration, achieving
further economies in secondary school construction, and school
maintenance;
(d) further raise grade 5 promotion rates (to an average of about 54% at
the close of the 1985/86 school year);



- 42 -
(e)  control access to upper secondary schooling (further reduce grade 9
promotion rate to about 45S at the close of the 1985/86 school year);
(f)  limit growth of higher education admissions at  the start of the
1986/87 school year to a maximum of 21 over prior-year admissions;
(g) finalize for government approval the draft legislation on incentives
for private-sector schooling; and
(h)  control  education  costs  by  maintaining  university   fellowship
restrictions (paragraphs 3.08(c)iii and 3.08(d)vi), and increased
university teaching hours (paragraph 3.08(d)ii).
Accounts and Audits
4.25     Assurances were obtained at negotiations  (paragraph 6.02) that the
Government  would  maintain  records  and  accounts  relating  to  Phase  I
expenditures to be reimbursed under the Loan, as well as to expenditures on
studies to develop new educational activities. The Government also provided
assurances that the statements of expenditure submitted to the Bank in support
of withdrawal applications under the proposed Loan (paragraph 4.13) would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, using
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and that audit reports would be provided to
the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.



- 43 -
V. BENEFTS AND RJSKS
5.01     The education sector reform  program described  in  Chapter  III is
expected to yield very significant development benefits for the country.  It
would make the provision of education more equitable, more cost-effective, and
more consistent with the country's medium-term needs and resources.  During
Phase I of the reform program, to be supported by the proposed Loan, the
structure of the reform would be put into place:  the reorientation of the
school system in favor of basic education would be established; a number of
measures would be put into operation to improve educational resource use; and
the principles of cost recovery and private-sector participation would be
reinforced.  At the same time, a number of new educational programs would be
developed to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of education and to
improve its links with the world of employment. These new programs would be
adopted during the subsequent phase of the reform.  Some of the prospective
benefits of  the reform are quantifiable,  as  are  the improved enrollment
prospects and the reduced education costs summarized in paragraphs 3.04
through 3.06. There are also a number of important potential benefits which
are not quantifiable.   They include the impr^ved equity which would result
from the provision of basic schooling where none existed in the past, the more
practical orientation of education to employment needs, and the psychological
benefit to students of reduced class failure and repetition dule to
artificially set promotion standards.
5.02     The  reform  program  also  entails  significant  risks.   The  most
important of these is the risk of rejection by key participants in the
reform-teachers, students, parents, and school administrators.   The reform
involves a significant change in the objectives of the education system, and
will require a corresponding adjustment in public expectations of the system.
By demonstrating Bank support for the reform program, the proposed Bank Loan
is expected to facilitate public acceptance of the sensitive elements of the
reform such as increased teaching hours and slower growth of university
intakes (paragraph 1.01). Although the reform is expected to be well received
by many groups, it could face rejection by groups which view the reform as
threatening accustomed prerogatives or expectations. The Government is fully
aware of this risk, and has very conscientiously sought to minimize it by
situating the reform in the context of restructuring in other areas (paragraph
1.03), by involving key interest groups (including teachers' unions and
political parties) in early deliberations on the reform, and by testing public
receptiveness on a number of key reforms before committing itself to the full
reform  program  (paragraph  3.02).   Although the  reform program  inevitably
entails some risk of public rejection, these efforts by the Government to
build public acceptance of the reform have reduced the risk to an acceptable
level. A very positive indicator for the success of the reform is that the
Government has already taken courageous action on several of the most
contentious issues-including fellowship restrictions and increased teaching
hours.   These  changes have been accepted in a constructive spirit by the
groups most affected.



5.03     A second inevitable risk is that the ultimate objectives of the
reform could be compromised by incomplete implementation-particularly during
the second phase of the reform when a number of new educational activities are
to be introduced. The reform program is complex in terms of the number, size,
and inter-relationship of program actions. A number of these complementary
actions are essential to the success of the Phase I policy initiatives. The
improved promotion rates introduced in Phase I, for example, would ultimately
lead to an undesirable situation of automatic promotion unless the programs in
student performance assessment and remedial instruction are successfully
developed and implemented. Successful follow-up on the initial reform program
actions will require sustained monitoring by the Government and by the Bank of
actions to develop and implement new educational activities. The structures
and procedures for implementation and monitoring described iL paragraphs 4 17
et. seq. are designed to provide this follow-up. If they are effective, the
Pbase I policy reforms are likely to be followed by implementation of
appropriate  new  programs.   If  they  are  not  effective  for  any  reason,
appropriate new programs might not materialize and the reform could fail to
achieve  its  full  objectives.   To  reduce  this  implementation  risk  to an
acceptable level, the Government has established appropriately staffed bodies
(the Commission de la Reforme Educative, the Interministerial Steering
Committee, and the Reform Implementation Task Force) which are to oversee the
implementation of the entire reform, with particular emphasis on the carrying
out of studies to develop new educational activities. The results of these
studies are to be comumnicated to the Bank for comment before the Closing Date
for the proposed Loan (paragraph 6.01(b)).



- 45 -
VL AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     During negotiations for the proposed Loan, agreements were reached on
the content and timing of the reform program as described in Annex A and its
attachments (paragraph 4.22), as well as on several key elements of Phase I
reform implementation. The Governent would: (a) maintain the Cocmission de
la Reforme Educative, the IntermJnisterial Steering Committee, and the Reform
Implementation Task Force throughout Phase I of the reform with membership and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 4.20); (b) undertake,
according to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, the studies to
develop new educational actions, and communicate the results to the Bank for
cownent before the Closing Date of the proposed Loan (paragraph 5.03); and
(c) prepare and communicate to the Bank a report on reform program
implementation through calendar year 1986. On the basis of this report, the
Bank would conduct an interim review by December 31, 1986, to assess whether
reform program implementation warranted release of the second tranche of the
proposed Loan (paragraph 4 24).
6.02     Agreements were also reached at negotiations on use of LCB provisions
acceptable to the Bank for civil works contracts to be disbursed against under
the Loan (paragraph 4.16), and on the proposed procedures for auditing and
reporting on expenditures to be disbursed against under the Loan (paragraph
4.25).
6.03     Subject to the above conditions, the reform program would provide a
suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$150 million equivalent to the Kingdom of
Morocco.



a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
519A5   512/11    5414/la    G944/"9    544/1       191.9/l    511/.N     911/1264    allMO13/ 114 5914/11  9        41414 91411  191116   19111 9 .191a"196    lmisi7   296/6        162U        2g       99/
5.)-
ttos                                             S. tV                                                                                 t                               1114/A    N 111 ,  424,69  t66,41 l 1 11   i  1n U 11. 1  l 4t   61 1,4  .  9,.9   5.lm.   ..  .1.4   sn.9.  simiwi    sNl   s  5.264l   -.
ml.                6/A                  .          .       1.            .1 4     25,, 4   92 4.Su    244,44      65,.1     44,4 n  M  4,2t1 in 414.19                 11.996    459,14      94t1t       am       656.14H -'
#mse       U/      11.218    94,2192   51.4,164    140,511.46   14.42411   9j1.sa1  61.963     19.96*ol   14,1)4ar   09.45o   .ieniu19 56,U  56,45    74.m1    511.678   59 6.999    94U.514   J"Jm   1,UNM   A .A.U
Irst-Crf1 1eSmRd.rI
,&ad" 4.-91
6164l               a4         *-      VA            -.         **.                                                   ,,        tVA   22A 9.4        V/A    29.96   .5      3    592A U1S1liSt   914.1    9             1    42 . Ut
9.969               19   596.192}   264.2?)   8119. 22       s,4a         V     tI4 224.494  /V41          A        .A                                      41V.5 *1              6811 41,959   1f416 611.119    41.4    U 1l    "11.4a1   129.15
S.gmt.CaSle Sf t vS
lendas 59.9*9
mBl.              3m *1         -        VA          -.         -.         .          .          .         .          .                 16.54        I/    111:.96  ,1 32.49    141.21    64.911    5174.Su    196.6         to4,461
roooll            Les                    N/t Wt                                         U                                                  in       WA t  "  "  Ila     I:,        M ttz     4mt ts  l,    141,111 t 1 r",H S ^ 1Ug
?e0ll             1.96     2.94       AL.A14    "3.299      21.2          6/A V    s.n,      ,4.          W/A    K4eel    111.541    5969t          O/A    911.611    592,569   214.969    24114   21.463    9l.f            Mn ,t
fetal  US_   ,     4.691    252.346    219.621    144.417   111.112    26636      264.9tr    26t21      951n9      2t U   U n  n    sef,t 419.0  466.697  OVA 6v 4,12               14.111  4631.2r4   ftU.924    Ot.5  1.
62Sw9 ISMS=*         N/9      1.166      &.264      .91       596 1.,11  .15,149    5S3.449   5819.      59,964     24.!66     11,1    49.M        69.99       63.21M     14.441    96.119    96.99                  11.2  .1631V  loo.tm
*6.aSIdSa. tt91461 trataSet.
at 0110n ama *.m tX      t Wtual  stI Ul.
l~~~~~~~~~~SI    Offl _l. LLME9tt0sh.miLAM=  lirstA  __ va tSI. Af   r 1-m_!1_
__s    _L4t5_, Ng  1 *I 1- 1  1   I  sae   c        sts,tgg6age  so                           tw.t _v415   1 9.    ata
a.n.                                                           5S9



I OSEEI B ADjUSMENT LOtU
STAFF APPAIA       PT
Evolutkln af tha    sE b         a Share  CF DAP a   Tatal  ovant bidmt. 1975-8S
(In Millions of Current 0Orh_PS, ExCept s llotedI
1975        1976        1977        1976        1979        1960       1961        1982         1983       19U4        IllS
A. LEVELS (in Niliaou of CtUrrmnt OIrhaa.l
Ir2oAa  aCtic FrAdUt A/                36,411      42,316      49,761      55,14      62.043      70,161      76,737    9s,018        94.169    105o547             --
ELhmmmL ki
Recurmnt                                1,319       1,796       2,202       2,664       3,073       3,519       3,974       4,692       5.274       5,471        6,079
mnvestant Gi                            --9     7       i        -21        __          --Zs          .2                   4I           1,2         -JM          Lii
Total                                 Li          I'm         2.Z         Li           I"         LAM         LI          LI          LS          LAZ          Lii
ftcurrent                               6,849       8,214       8,1I"       9,469      10,622      12,611      is, 31      18,10S      22,672      19,226       21,2U
Invostfnt g/                           6LZIA         Iii       i1j"         LI12s      167LU       .1422       L_E         JL 7Z    1L2SI           1411          U        I
Total                                ILJ12.      1LEZ7       20III       17JIZ       2L.7*2      iLMI        25ti5       I4II1       ZL2U       2Z- 2E
GOP lflfatnr (1975 z 100)               100.0        101.S       106.5       125.4       134.6      146.6        162.7       176.8       163.6      205.4            --
NW SaWest . (nntaMt 1I4i Omirham
Recurrent (9.7% average, 1975-631       1,319       1,769       2,029       2,124       2,263       2,397       2,443       2,624       2,573       2,65             --
Investuit (2.8% average, 1975-83)   .72              --1        __m         __4          --1         .M                        WZ         .M         --_
Total                                 li4         I'm            Li 41                Lim         ILi         Lii         Li2i        2iii        LIM
B. MEWET SHAMS fin II
Recurrent                                   14.9        21.9        24.6        28.1        26.9        27.9        25.9        25.9        23.3       2U.S         2U.6
Investnt                                      _Z         ,M                     Li          -La        .LZ         Ai4          L          -L          iL            LA
Total                                    iLl         .141         A1l        IL          IJS         1L.2        I9 ol                   ILl         22a           IZ
cLJiiuaUAAk                                  5.2         6.0         6.1         S.6         6.2         5.8         6.3         i          7.0         6.6         --
Gavnrnnt BudaatiMP                         41.6        42.7        41.4        31.9        43.0        30.0        33.1        39.4        38.3        26.3         --
a/  Current IORO country tables (November 10, 1983).                                                                                                                       N
/  HO1F Lot  LEanGWs, successive Years. 
a/  New credits (crhdits de oaiaent) only.
0Do  2490V/2789V



Kiucami or  ~e
STAFFSUhoifL UEnam
Publg, Scholina Enrallmnts bIY Loval  NHistarical and Pranasad
(Average Annual Growth Rates Indicated In Parentheses)
H I S T a I I C A L                             _ _ P    D 5 a a /a _          _          __
1161/66       1978/79        1984/IS       1989/90        19901l         1995/96       20000/S
PRIMARY (Grades 1-S through 1989/90,
Grades 1-6 thereafter)
Total Enrollments                1,044,641      1,857,395      2,303,200     2,664,700      3,197,200     3.938,000      4,659,900
Annual Growth Rate                      4.4X           3.6X           2.9X           16.21         4.2n           3.41
New Intakes, Grade I                   N/A        339,081        405,600       549,100        575,100       722,100        509,400
Annual Growth Rate                       U/A           3.0X            6.1X           4.71          4.51           2.11
LU  -RSECIh5      (Grades 6-9 through 1989/90,
Grades 7-9 thereafter)
Total Enrollments                  159,235        452,259        729,700     1,200,600        916,400     1,127,000      1,399.500
Annual Growth Rate                      8.0X           8.0*           10.0l        -27.01          4.1X         4.31
New Intakes                         59,300        117,450        159,700       341,900        293,100        351,400       445,500
Annual Growth Rate                      S.31           5.0           11.8l        -14.5X          3.41         4.71
SUaTaTAL. BASIC E0UIMATXON
(Grades 1-9)
Total Enrollents                 1,203,876      2,309,654     3,032,900      3,365,300      4,113,600     1,06s,0a0      6.059.400
Annual Growth Rate                      S.0X           4.51            4.91          6.2X          4.21          3.61
PPEE SEUCONDARY (Grades 10-12)
ToWal Enrollments                   21,855        152,820       299,700        319,500        241,700       446,400       59,900
Annual Growth Rate                      11.01         11.21            1.11          6.71          6.21          2.91
Now Intakes, Grade 10                  N/A         56,46          88,600       105.200        115,600       143,900        175,100
Annual Growth Rate                      */A            7.41            3.4X          9.6x          4.32          4.0X
Graduates, Grade 12                    N/A         21,784         37,500        42,400         44,000        61,400         60,600
Annual Growth Rate                      N/A            9.11            2.65          2.2X          6.71          0.31
Secondary Diploma Recipients k/       1,721 Gl     27,357            N/A           N/A            N/A            N/A           U/A
Annual Growth Rate                      21.21          N/A             U/A           N/A           U/A          N/A
UNIVERSITY (Four-Year Program)
Total Enrollments                    4,562         55,744        119,200       167,900        174,600        196.000       215,300
Annual Growth Rate                      19.2J         12.71           .6.91           3.91         2.31         0.1%
New Intakes                            N/A         17,796         40,400        44,600         45,100        49,600         54,500
Annual Growth Rate                       N/A          137X            2.01          2.0%          1.71          1.91
a/  Proposed figures are from December 1984 Hinistry of Education (HEN) proposal; figures reflect proposed transfer  of Grade  6
from lower secondary level to primary level In 1990/91.
/ *Sachellers,w equal to Grade 12 graduates plus successful candidats libres.8
J,l Moroccans only.
SOURCE:  Figures for primary and secondary schooling from following sources:  figures for 1982/83 and 1983/84 from 
Statistical Yearkok; figures for 1978/79 from Houvmmnt Educatif au Maraoc  1978/79-1979/80 and HEIM Statistical
Yearbook. 1979/80; figures for earlier years from Oustian de lVEnseignement au aroe. Figures for higher education
from Question de l'Enselanaent au Maroc for years 1965/64 and 1972/73, for subsequent years from data provided in
Oeceaier 1984 HEN proposal.
Doc 249CV/2789V



indicative EduCattdn Praaraa:   Etm aF oP  ddcation expanditurS2 by &Wdea C datarw. Reform Program Ph~ase I
(millions of current OH)
Estuiated Expenditures                              Upper                                                                                           Of Which
by Budget Category                  Basic        Secondary       Teacher       Untvnrsity           Not            I8R  Fourth £                   Foreign
and Calendar Year                 Education      Education       Training      Education      Adonistrat1on        Fifth Projects       Total      Exchan
IMVESTMT COSTS
School Construction
1986                               1,S91.7            8.9            -              -                -                 -            1,630.6          635.9
1987                              204Q0i2            AU4             -              -               -                  _            LJJJ4 24114
Subtotal                          2145.Z                                                                                             2-IJ2- _  -  -  LI  7.M4L4
Eaulint and Furniture
1986                                 111.7            2.8            -             51.0             -                150.0            349.5          262.1
1987                12A                               L2                           "A                2a . 2 2S. 1"
Subtotal                             2iss             LQ             a            13114              -IS1                                            S
OTATL INIVESTMET COSTS
1116                     ~~~~~~~1,707.4     41.7            -81.0                           -150.0                          1,910.1         596.0
1987                              2.109 aAI                          -            .JLSA                              _I0            2LIE9          ].oL.2
Subtotal                            272L ZJILD                       -            111E a                             1JDL_ llZQ                     IB.S 2
m(CUIUNT COSTS
Salaries and Bnefits
1966                               3,498.5          002.J          251.9          556.0            02.2                -            5,197.9
1987                               1722.4           1aL0           26LE         .fLE0 AU                                            5 47L 0                   w
Subtotal                           7L220.9        1-604-4          5.           1.157.0            1L                  _            11 U 
1986                                   -            101.3          327.7          255.0              -                 -              714.0          161.0
1987                                   _            I10.I1        i.1              SLE             7--.2                                             iL
Subtotal                                           n2114            LE             2L                -                               1.564.2IL
Educational Haterials
1986                                  67.2           17.0            4.5            5.0            177.7               -              271.5           1I.5
1987                                 7.81              Ll           Mi             -L.a           1I92.                               _M 29
Subtotal                             ILI             iL.             22            11L             nu                                  I _ASS        1l9
School  ainteance
1986                                  10.6            2.7            -             99.0              -                 -               112.3
1987                                  12 La2 2                                    ILE                -                 -              1IL
Subtotal                              2LI3 4          5                             L
TOTAL RECURIENT' COSTS
Is"6                               3,576.4          923.3          591.1        1,015.0           259.9                -            6,365.7          242.5
1987                               L12L            933.2          E2Ll         1UL9.0            RiLE                 -            6,74.0           DM
Subtotal                           78Ll4          1kL6.5         1.12L          2.074.0              14                -           I IL7
TOTAL PROGAM COSTS
1916                               5,283.a          905.0          591.1        1,096.0           259.9              150.0           1,345.1       1U140.5
1987                              6 oolka         140221         292.I         ILulO               2272 0RE                         LULl 1o2.1 9
Subtotal                          11E285A         16IZ7I         LISLE          2  L205.0    o      L                JhL            17IL.7           U172 .
NOTE: Annual tntlation Rates:  1985 a 12X; 1986 * 10.0%; and 1987 * 6.01.



-50 -                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ansew Table 5
WHNPAltfrCE FROATNIRW INDTCXTOER
Febnruay 14, 1986
cur PT'              An628ItMrrU   LITERACY PRIMARY P8114A 61?                       Ax P561  PSINAIF%r   FPMA    SECONDARY LSI3WIISt t 3033
ILA-E  POP.  CAPITA  PERCU3r 1'  0    AL GPJItRAL ALLOCAfWTE 11 RArTE    EHULL. SOICL         xrTCIITNRrs mu3sT    PRNAS' TO  dImu.L.   STIINIRs  1:10It.L.
V PAR NI U.S. (lips)   0RR0TPJ TO  0093U1133T    PRt  SEC  '3T    CZ)    RATIn   CTCLN.       Pri      AS PEOScin  SECiIIARY   tNITl       Pus        Rain
(30179) (ION)1   Macirns  vzvsamrurms            (E)        (1676)   Cet)       CE)    Tr.AIP.R  CUPICAPIrA       (E)        (2)     TCCIR        CZ)
(1)     Cl)        (35           (4)           f1)          C)       C)        (pi        (6)        (in)5       (1II        (32)       (113    (341
AIWrR4LIA          10l          ,n3        6.W          46          -    - -                  103'      inn        21         -             9          73       Ii       20.00
CANADA                                                                                                                       [O2.6669  .0  69  1?3'  1?    9. 36    1 3.9"?  3nn  92.IS 22.6
crsqsy v.a.        N9    41.   12,200       a,6         6.0.        -                 qb       so'      an"        -                      i-amp       qo.       --       1.1
swnaR,uamis        79    14.o  30,4401     7.9          S1.       2fl  35   Zs       9qb      99.       91         II        391           9          1z        ii       12.40
5EW ZCALAnI        no      3.2b  9i.,o533   . LW       1.          3p   3g  2a       9ob      1t00      1nn         26       11.9.        Inn          52        is      fl.505
Skess              N9     5.1  327,93      *.0         IR.2        II   10   I0      qeb       902      300        IP'       304          inn                   it". 100'    3,10f
FASTEMI AFRICA
liw-SCAIIA         n-      i.n3    930b   6i.0         22.03       41   14   22      40       100        77         12       1n.0          40         24        21        3.50
WIRIjIOI           Al     4.2      hiA     2.8-        39.0        43   25   27      35        30'       35        37        20.2          12           1.      17        1.00
cnmlDs        R'     0I,4b    345      1.5"       23.0        40   29   22      40        71.       AO        20        -             411         16       25        0.60
pJi  WTrI          NA     0.4      480     1.0        I31.9        7)   26   ...    30         42       66         At)       6 7.0         4 6t a               3I Q       611
rE4 IOPIA          A I      ,6 12.          .0b 14 zq    .1.       as  2 20 z        51        42        3O-       9.i       39.1          03-         II       I4   nA 0.5
EBITA              42    3 743.    AZO3.    553b       2n,3k        -   ib   I I     453.     I3)        53        36        14.4         3IS          La       79.
LE.SOTHO           52      1.b     A 4)33   S. S       31.0        36   32   26      silb     I39.3      Al        4t         9,.6        49.          21       73        3.10
NAOArA.SCAR        77     A.1      110      4,."-      2A.0        51   28   10    -in         *A3x      33         sib       6.0          36          14       21        1.1I1*'
MALAUI             R*I    g.jb    21kb   I.5 I         33.4        1n   36   25      2*        9. 2     21         61         1%5          12           A       73        0.40
oA3l11t13TIM       RI     I.6    Ab        n  .3       14.0        Ar.  i.    7      Bob'      61        72        21       I31,0         300          so       22        1.00
EUARhIA            RI      5.@     27flb    3.6.       27.4        71t   1.   31I    3*h       A. I      31        40        36i.0          0           5       39.       0.40
maOILLES           N0     0.6   3,770       1.9        22.42       345 335304                                      Zs.   5    -                         .        . 
SOMALIA1           531    4.1      250n    1.5         30.1         313. 446   4b    9.n3      flb      an3.       zqh        qo,b        *nb          12h      22        3.00
533wm             anO    10.2b    350.       .          -          6    10   ...    12z        II..     be         34         1.6          44         36        39.      ..
IlA2iLANOD        53      a.7     9403.    3,5DPb      201.4      S1  3A   II        6* v     93        93         31        33.0         06l         291       35       3,0n
TANZAMIA           an    15.1      260      5.9         37.7       47   in   19.    rob       *93.       07         411      11.0          3ab          1       200       0,30
DGANDA             s0    32.6b    uob    -             36.3"       Zl   37. 303.   4A          34'      9.3        14        -             1 7          51      3         0.9.0
zAIRE             A53    204*t   23l3    7.7           26.4        -    -    in      34b       76       25         10        23.0         60          13        26        2.00
XAMIBIA           531     576b   ¶9.3    4.9S          11.3        A6   23   22      443       9s       a n        &s        12.9          3 9         IA       22        13.0
ZIPMIAJ            53a    7. 76    703*    1.1         19.`1       62   32    6      &4b3      0n        5i        39        20.0          51          1S       23        0.50o
WSTEUN AFRICA
Wimrw              N7      3.4     3306    6i.9        31 .0       43   2 1    Is   31-        42        10        AG        34.0          30          I I      all       3.017
RUMRIIA            m1     6.1      21inb    2.1"       23.7        43   29   25      9         16       25         57        24.1         I16           3       24       0.013
C.ssiu             NH      mz      150      2.97       36.02       315  43A  200   -           76'      415         307      31.0          2D5         II'      29.       1.201
C.A.R.             N9     2.2      250      5.5'?      20.6"        -      ---   -      -                          6' -0   .               -           -        -         0.70a2
03WD               79.    A.A      120      2.40W      2t.7b       -     -     -    I5         ZiP2     -           77        -            -            3IRV    21        01.207
019300             75      3.i     670      9011W'     27.7'?        --       -       -       -                     ,99. -     30ivI                   -        43b1      4.10017
CAaS               77     0.6   3.420       3..77y       547        -     -         -          -        -          443.7            -            -              I J91Y    2.5067
CANBtA             717    0.6      220      3,36       6i. *b      46   29   a.   lab          4067      90'.      276       46.76         4n          12bs'   37         -
ClAMA              76    31.3      400      4.0?       35. 9       -    -    -      -          7369-    -          3761      -             -           36b.0    21        -
GUINEA             N9      5.1I    2000    A.9.'D      -           29V20-226'   20             34        36        35        20.080        6L          14       20        7.0041
1V03T EDA31'       53     0.26  3.o73'*   30n0         45.0        33   "    I     30'         60       56i        43        26.0         47           IWV-     26        1.04UP
LIBERIA            n0      3,0     520     4.6         19.6        43   23   24    30          32        32        35        2n.0         73.          22       20        2.903
MALI               at     70nb    300       4.2'       21.N-       38   21   1I    i0          20       9.0        44        31 .7        I4                     It       0.0007
KAnIRIrAN3A        78     1.6b    32nb    LI3          36.6        33   43   25    376         32       6fin                 12.0          30           9       25        01.3 7
NIGER              75      1.2     300      4.3"v      39I..T      12-  43a   9P    A          17        565       61'       35.30         40           2       261'      0,70?y
NIGERIA            53    93,6kb    7ao'    7.4?        16i.0       -    -    12.5  36          93        70         16       30.1          46.7        22.5     30        2
SEDECAL            77     S. I     410      1.0        21.0        66   34  231   I0           3462(1     -        431b      -            20          10        21        2.21*'
SIEMt  LOIRWE      77     3.4      250     4,06        ie.01,      -     -     -    It0        37'      -          35        z53          56          3I9       22        n.9.0b'
ToOl               in      2.4     400      6.53"      26.9        100n  25' 21'   16          74       4.0         54by     361.0         52          12b17    456       1.9.dby
LArIN AMERtICA AND) TVIE CARIRREAF
AMOITINDA          W 7    27. 3 2 2.230I    2.7        30.6        43A   3 3141B    cb         51        g2        37        -            57           31        R       23.00
RSMAiW             79     0.2   2,77n       5.7        10.3        16   36   It    036         66       97         24        -            97           75       19      -
RARIADOR           75     0.2   2.650      A. S17      22.3'       43' 314  W6   093b         30n7      99'        277       IO."'         90'         N'       20'     -
BOLIVIA            an     S.4      155     4.!'"       in3.P       -    -    --    63l         74'      -          2n'       -            -            I1%      -        £2.60?
BRAZIL             79   136.5   3.770       3.4         6.2        53   -    14    74          73"v     -          13"T       4.9b        9.3'        19'       14"v   12.fi2b
0411.3             79     306 14.  .500     3.2bv      133,1)      -    -    -      --        129b60     -         34bv      -             -           5*17y   2067    31.0067
OIIONRIA  NO    29..1'  3,1606    3.3    25~~~~ ~~~.0I  305  20   20  56         7         6         12         6.6         -           47        20       30.02'
COREA RICA         5n     2.2k, T.5306    5.4          31. I       40   27   33    90          93        77        33         5.5          77          40       27       14.3n0
C134               73     9.8      -        5.0        11.0        -     -     -    06       I3I2wb'   96          IRby       -5                       7i6-     35       390,0b'
liomINCAI REP.    an       I. 3   1.030     2.9        13.0        36   21   22    653.        AD        31         50        3.2          04          20       33       36.100
EGUADO             on     5.A1, 3.130       6.30p      36.7        45   i3   i6    RI         305       -          36        32.6         5AA          47       36       29.00
EL SALVAMNR        77     4.4      "a4    3,461        73,361      9.4    a   27    9.2        5zhv    32          30                      Al4         26"'-    2 761     7.90b7
G3IATSEALA         75     6.5   3.010       3,767      12.6k                -                  66.37     -         35. - IS                66          3*'?7    j0b?      L.W
GUYANA             76     0.5      630e    5.161       13.511b     -                           9 -    .-   -       3261                    -           53.17y    -        3.0061
HATIt              50      5,06    230      3.4"         7.0'?     65    9    9.   23b         93        20        43        30,0         6i2'          As      27        01.60
n6oIUJRAS          76     3.6i     520      3.9        34,367Ib    62'   356  30'  060      n            30'vit    433.'    32.6'         fi           2JXT     10       S5f00Y
JAKAICA            n0     2.3   1.130       6,. 5      33.7        37   43   20   9on          05       01         40         2.3          95         53        22        6.00
NESIC)             50      .5.5   1,550    4.7         17.00       49.  39   1I   02           0611b     13        44.6.1                 56          59        17       10.30,
NICARFAUA          75      7.6b'  9.11*     1.0"       34,31       -     -     -    .1*         A9       7         376       -              -9.3.2    306                -
PMANAA            7m       3,5b  3,5533.    I. 31      21.561,    42'  311' 13    533.         0*'-                29?F      31.61         B9          93k"     2rb    20.41*7
PARAGUAT           79     3.0   3.340       3,4 3& 4.2             42   37   20    84G         63        32        25         1IJr         79.        22        12        0.731
Prim               50    16.6   3.f0O1     3.6         14.1        53   35   36   It0          51       56         10         0.6         59          39        22       14.407
T31610AD 46 TON.   77      1.3   3,010      4,561       q35.nb     45   32   20   '05          95        01        30        10n.5?        49          42       26       -
URI11UAT           751    2.9   3, 50       2.5         9,4b6           -    -      94        1n56x     -          343.      -             -           64b1     -        17.6067
VUIEZUELA          75    34.4   3,440       5.1'       tR,qb       -     -     -    52        IO4a~   -            25        -             -           153.'    37       23.10?



5I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Anuam TableS 
PaMe 2 of 2
Febromory 34, 1964
I                      QDB3U~~~~~~~ZKIHUITo     IuflNCMLTU                                      eni
I                      II~~~~~~~~~0  gTDEdlOU   RR3EIITJ  ADUTLT        RuaE POt              U 31 01ff  PAUICWSION1
ARP. POP.  CAPIrA  FEMUITr .2? TaL CEITRAL ALwcafMTOI0  ROE               CUVLL. ROCOCL        Irt33DPN   EDUra I'Si  PRIMARtY TII  SKILL.  SETUSENTS  DIPLL.
"At Mu.s. (us8)   VEOI33 TO  CDWPEMIIS            Pat  SEC  III    (2)    8010M  CYCLE.         PRO       AR P3MWpir 310CUD4Y    win           PEN        Rai.,
(1973) (3979)   EIUOC4IOI  ERPSJD1TIIE            (21        (il'9)    Cl)        (23      TtAmEt  njp/CAPITA        (2)         CT)    RLAOIP.R      CT)
(1)     (2)        (3              4             3            43       11        C)         ()          3)          (I 3)                  (Il)    '34)
azua"               aj Ip2.0z       130 lb    3.3         7.1        33   AC   22       77b       77         2         2 1                                 1'       4 I7       &A
IRDONERIA          A3 IIs. *        120      2.1          9.2        70   24    A      371       -         43         3 7       11.0           1.          27       21        1.10n
sOAg               12    jq31  1636b    7.7-             20.31       14   34  13        94t      99        99         A3         3 9.0         an          34        IN      7j.Mn
MALAYSIIA          A4    itt.  I.S71*    .13             14.7        3W4"  A    I11'    74*      97'       97          26i       3.1          39 N         72       77        1.0.
PAMPIjaI.          93      3,9'    120l      34          39.0        40   37   23      -         40         73.       1ha       13.0          is           I31.     27'        3,00
MIILIpP13ER   ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~79    4.11.3  *ob  WM3  14.11  44   36   -  7*  34    45         13I        1.I           Si                    4       2/l
RINCAMIEC          30n     24   4420         2.7          4.7        39   4. 1 I       31        92        AZ          II   93                96 4         1%       22        ann1
3115imm  33..      32      o,211    40       I.e"-       jq.qh       Al   34   20       is        73       N0         27        30,1          441          2"        in       'A"o
134uSDN             12    A9A'h   303b    3.              n2.1       39  3I   10 4Inv ash        j          a          23 J       9,35         44          Al        3n        4jA.
3)01W ASIA
BMLIN               j9    *2.3b      90      3,3w        I0.1.?      ¶3   3 7   20     2h2       41?        -          3          3.6         -            14       21         3.41
Ni3ITpJi           an      3.2       30o    3.1          33.0        --                 to 3      32             -         -      .                                  ----.-
INDIA              77   4 310.4     230      2.9'         9.9"f.                       3 I       79'                  43        --             -          33         -        3)119?
NSEPAL             R2    1 Snb    I3VA       1.4        -                               to--   1  70                   3         --                        21        21        3.rm~
PARISTJII          12    17,3b    131b    2.0             7*0       1ff  23   24       22         v)       41         i0          %.9         -A          23        13        1.nn
LOUP. NCOL  EAT fD MO3WN APRICA
APOIMIIST        'IF    13.1                 1.            .         4?   39   3 5      32       3tebe     A9         flh       -             42            I       271'       1.00'
£LA111TA            79    39.1   3,770       1.3P`       32.3       '14' 26' 21'    3s           NT.       A5 Sp       I7         1.07         54'         79'      2s        1.17n
RCTPT              32    43.3'    41Wa    4.9'            7.0        33'  35'  24'    hA          155      1nW         34t       9.3.         mi.          434       o 39'   3.n0
cir.eEC             74     9.3   4,340       2.4"        M0pb        1?   24   23I      -         9 7k?     -          Zvh       6.7?          -791.                 2* *' 1.innh
Oms                79    3.4,      -        5.79'~      34.1"F            --   - -     50       to3aW      -.         32'        .-                        4        21'       4.91W'
IRAQ               79    32.6   2,730       4.3"-        1.9""                         -        3007       -          23         -             -1T1    29'                    9_19'?
IkEALSS            *. I    j,b  4A5          ..14'       31.3'F      -     -           93        913       9&         29         -            9           R3        34       £3.100
.Ui3 aj                     2,tI 3.42*        .93        30.2        39 4        3       1         7       a1          12        335.3                               33       3.90
LASSO.             79      2.1      -        -.          13.4'W    -       -   -        -         A        -          19        -.             ---        46'       --       27,31W?
IMDCCI)            34    21.11    673*    -..,W          27.4        33   41   1        135       57'       9          13       3.1.          -            34.       31       M.40w
CmII                32     n,qb  5,9301    *.35m         32.7'       -    - -           317       73'       9.1        21       -.             3i          33 I      IA        .
poffwAL       79      *,gh  2,040       1.6        22.2         10   23    13     73        97        24)        39'       32*           RON'        19         17'      3.10'
UNUOIA             73    22.3   2.301)      3.91?         4.2?       -    --  -        91       1L36b'     -          21h       --                        34b.      22"    13Q4p83
SPcW                74    27.0   4,920       2.1?        14.3,       -     -     -     -         qgbr      -          7914      -             -            6 7?     -        24.30""
3131               73      3.4   3.370       4.43        311.1       39   235    A 6     t       31 99                1*.me 3$  -             43          A3..      231      32.40
TIWISIA             79     4.4   1.13D       7.05'       39.0        42   39    13      421     3on-       no         393       32.*           30         3255      30        6.00
10=3?Y              33     4.7.S13.230       3.1         33.2        in  22   z4        13b      330        77         I I        4.0          55          24        II        9 .00
130o AI            30n     6.       420      5.03'       12.0        94    7    7      20'       37        32'        J3"       47.0          as            3       20         3,30
TOM0 P:.*..        92      2:.0    4301    1.6            9.7        63'  1A'  30    53          43        34         23        22.43'        46           37       20        2.10
53139A9? FOE DEYELOPIiIC W011UTRIRS:          469                          69     7     RI         2                   0         6S5                                 i          5
Ra."",                                    (1.4-           (3.1-  (23-  (3-  (1-    (31-       (32-      (12-        (17-      (3.A-         130-        Co-       Cm-      (0.03-
10.0)          26.3)  94)   44)  33)    99)        339)      993         77)       47.03         3on)        34)       AR)      29.0)
Quartle..: Upe.r:                           3.9.          23.1      13  14   22       El[       91        30         43        20            37          47        24       33.0
Maflies:                        4.0           13.J      43   Zs   39      33        a]        61         3)        33            43          2f.       22         3.7
Loa.r:                         3.0            11.0      33   23   31      25        s0        i1         23         9            40           1 4      39        1.0
Quartile Deviatios                          1.1            3.4    4.5  1.1  4. 5   231.0      39.0      22.1i       7.0        3.4         21.1         14.1      3.1        1."
Naeat                                      4.4            17.0      44 23    3A        33        74       31         34        34            426         331       23        4.9
Standard DevIetIn..                         1.9            3.7I     32   30I    7     29        2 7       24         33        3 1           2 7         23          7       1.4
Hed!":                                     4.0            34.0      II1  28   39 q     31       33        6l         3 s 1   3               643          23       22        3,7
STOULS:                                                                  FOIytI33tEE:
-   SWIN  MAV4ILAUA                                                      A - ua" pR10p 1n BASE YEAS                   S - 911131f9rR (W SUCtION flaP) ONLY
WAGUITUDE nIL O3 9PSLICFISE                                           Rt - wOWl  P0Mm  RECEN  TRIM  mall! tSAR     T - JOE M3D STATE 0132510?r OILY
7 DM34N OUESTIIAV..E                                                    N - C0330W  P119CE                           W - PUBLIC EXPCITOSri CONLY
- INCISORS PAflr71HE STOT                                               I- NET v32313,LPEIT RATI-)                    3 - INCLUDE)S flIps-mt STo3JPIIT
P -CURS INVLLMNES  ftC 10                       - 01NL903 10C
EOnVS:           Colma. 3 and 2:  wlorld Rants Actlam  or Educatlan sector field ulauiong.
Colstei I to 34: UInrld lnch EVucation actor aolemian Govearaqat sources andtor t.threUnesgoUacti.tlcal Teerhoat.
Cnsearat±ve EdsAclco  Duta are usful Is the evaluationm of -ariu. educcatin sTate.. and aaal1.ui  of re.latem  taea or educational deaveluumn..  hetwes variou
cousIn,. Eose.ver. a thu bosia of time premaut data, croaaoatimnal cosearian should he approachted with Omras cautian. Data pretested ±n the abowe table have
bea  -uLactad Ioraell by Real asin  frau Ravem-at, anurcel the raenalader ar  tcaf nclaci.ate  or dut. fra  Ilneuc.  Effort, have hue, ads couadad
defiaitians oald, vithIa lnita, to citedk time accuamcy of the data. uevertbe1e8m, mccl dat. ame nflI I ierfect In several reflcts ad the utank it orkIn3 to
lrovle  thaea oreselvemlly onr the occualam of Its noeratiloal. eark.  In the ut, of chow data, the folloulug             alfct±n  should he kapt Is nlotd:
(1) -Ed.ccation- as defloed in the table Include, a11 aducutl on ad tr-aaing 83och formal and uoa-foral.
(2) -Primary' education refera to dedcation ut the fl-rat level and -acendsrv education refera to all edurtios at the aecnndary level regardless of type
(e.g. geseul, trcluilcal. aogricultorall.
(3    'Literacy raete  (Co1. 4) mmaroftea abtained fromn coatry ceasesee.  Is any comatrica the, sr  only aoorouiatcloi  and It it douhtul that any   aif orm
defiaition of  llterat- e. is  bean folleved conalmtacIv.
(4) 'ftbLIc erxpendItlure sn dreducali' (cola. A and 3) refara to all capital and rearrest eupaultare devoted to edkuecaton 1? public and caa..i-obllc
artsaciem.
(3) larrollamomt ratiosr (cola. 7. 12 ad 14) efer to school year amd are the purcontsev of eligible, cblldren erariled fall-timo in the aavrosriae school,
pub-lic ad private bY level. They em often abject to t wid. etainl of error Is the develop-'.e countrIes seine to variatIons in the accuracy of heelt
dWat  (I.e.. ane-aoecflc Poapiatia  and  collseate).  Enrolumut figares fmm-all? are hIgher thou the ambehr of students  ctallv iv school.
Over-agad sctalauta my he included in the- Plxanes and can inflate the atIo0..



- 52 -
Ahnex A
Ps" 1 of 3
lUiNDOI 0? MIOROCCO
STATDIKNT OF EDUCATION SECTOR POLICY
Since Indepence, governmt efforts in the education sector have
focussed  principally  on  expanding  schoolin   capacity,  on  Moroccanizing
teaching staff, and on developing new course offerings consistent with the
needs of an expanding economy.
As a result of these efforts, the education system experienced rapid
expansion throuhout the 1970.-particularly in the area of higher education,
where enrollments increased at an average annual rate of over 191 between 1965
and 1978. This policy was appropriate in view of the growing demand for
higher-level administrative staff in the economy and in the civil service.
This significant expansion and diversification of enrollments,
intended in part to meet the needs of expanding civil-service recruitment,
where accompanied by a major increase in Government investment and recurrent
expenditures. Whereas the Ministry of Education (MOE) budget in 1975
constituted 12.51 of the total central Governeent budget, it had riaen to
22.9Z in 1984. The MOE recurrent budget during the same period increased from
14.91 to 28.51 of total Government recurrent budget (excluding caisse de
compensation and debt service payment.).
Mindful of the difficulty of maintaining such rapid growth of
education expenditures in the context of Morocco's recent economic and
financial constraints, as well as of significant efforts of adjustent in
other sectors, the Goverz.ent in 1980 convened the Colloue d'Ifrane in order
to start the process of definin a new education strategy and to establish a
National Commssion which would establish priorities for future developmoet of
the education sector. Following this initiative, the MOE adopted a series of
meaures designed to limit the growth of expenditures and to improve the
efficiency of the education system. These measures figure among the policy
changes negotiated with the IMF under the April 1983 Standby Credit
Agreement. That accord stipulated that the Government was to establish with
the World Bank a set of policy measures to limit education expenitures while
at the sawe time maintaining essential programs and improving the efficiency
of the education system at all levels.
Consistent with these objectives, the MOE has introduced a number of
significant reforme since 1982. The most important of those reform measures
are summarized as follows:



~ 53 -                   Annex A
Page 2 of 3
-    At the university level,  several  restrictions  limiting  fellowship
eligibility were put into operation in October 1982 in order to
reduce the budgetary burden of these expenditures and to promote
improved student performance. Fellowship amounts were reduced by 5SO
for  students  attending  faculties  in  their  town  of  residence.
Fellowships were also reduced by 50 (or suspended altogether for
resident students) for students whose inadequate performance obliged
them to repeat a year of classes. Fellowships for studies abroad
were limited to courses of study not available in Morocco, and were
suspended  for class failures of more than one year.  During the
1983/84 school year alone, these measures yielded savings of 60
million dirbams in fellowship payments, all in foreign exchange.
-    As of 1983, the pre-salaires of 1,030 dirhams per month formerly paid
to students in training to be secondary teachers were replaced with
stipends of 547 dirhams per month. This measure led to savings of
more than 20 million dirhams in 1983/84, and about 120 million
dirhams in subsequent years.
-    Two important measures to improve primary and secondary student flows
were introduced in 1983: Class repetition was limited to a total of
two years in primary schooling and two years in secondary schooling,
and a maxiimum age limit of 15 years was imposed for primary
schooling. These measures are having a salutary effect on teaching
quality by bringing about more homogeneous  classes.   By  helping
relieve the congestion at the end of primary schooling, they are also
improving the flow of students into lower secondary schooling.
Although these initiatives are very welcome, they constitute only the
first steps toward a necessary general reform of the education system. Nigh
unit costs of schooling reflect in larqe part the continued excessive
repetition  and  dropout  rates  at  all  levels.   Inefficiency  in  use  of
educational resources is a cause of concern not only for its own sake, but
also  because  it  implies  that available  teaching  resources are  providing
schooling to fewer school age children than might be served under more optimal
use.
Following an education sector survey carried out jointly by the MOE
and the World Bank in 1981, the Government has committed itself to implement a
reform program to improve the quality and efriciency of the education system,
while at the same time limiting the growth of education exFenditures.  The
objectives of the reform at each level are as follows:
Primary and Sec.ndary Schooling
-    Generalization of a nine-year program of basic schooling, involving a
significant expansion of capacity at the current lower-secondary
level (grades 6-9); and



- 54 -                     Annex A
Page 3 of 3
Improvement of student flows at all levels through adoption of new
promotion criteria, revision of curricula, improved teacher training,
measures to promote enrollments in rural areas, and provision of
basic teaching materials.
Higher Education
-    Rationalization of investment and recurrent expenditures;
-    Adaptation of university education to priority national needs;
-    Improvement  of  internal  efficiency  through  introduction  of  a
credit-hour system and improved teacher quality; and
-    Further  restriction  of  fellowship  eligibility  based  on  academic
performance and student needs.
The attainment of these objectives implies a reallocation of
education resources from higher education to basic education, and revision of
school construction norms designed to bring about reduced unit costs.
The Reform Program
The proposed program of adjustment, elaborated in collaboration with
the World Bank, describes the framework of the education reform. The basic
objectives of the reform are to make the education system more responsive to
the needs of the economy and to control the growth of education costs. These
goals are to be accomplished through expanded and reinforced basic schooling
and vocational training, and through stabilized enrollments in upper secondary
and  university  education.   More  specifically,  the  reform  program  would
introduce: (a) generalized schooling in a nine-year compulsory program of
basic education; (b) improved student flows at all levels; (c) modifications
in basic schooling content consistent with the objectives of basic education;
(d) reduction of dropout  and repetition  rates  in basic schooling,  to be
achieved in part through introduction of remedial instruction;  (e) limited
access to upper secondary schooling; (f) limited access to higher education;
(g) stronger measures to improve student performance  in higher education;
(h) more efficient use of teaching staff in secondary and higher education;
Mi) control of construction costs for primary and secondary schools;
(j) reduction of the proportion of non-teaching staff in secondary schooling;
(k) increased teaching hours in secondary and higher education; (1) reduced
need for new school construction via improved maintenance of existing schools;
and (m) more intensive use of primary and secondary classrooms.
In order to carry out the program of reform, the Government commits
itself to make available on a timely basis the necessary budgetary credits.
The specific measures comprising the reform program are described in greater
detail in the attached Description of Reform Measures and Implementation
Schedule (Attachment 1 to Annex A).  The Government has already begun  to
implement a number of the most important reform measures.



k1tulmi of Now=c
PROeSEO EUCATIN  SIECTM  1EFO   PIRGIA
SUPINARY OF MAflUlES MND   LEMENTATION  OEuL
1.   ALOAO1
IMPLEMENTATION SCI4EOUL[
Policy Measures                                   First-Year Program                    Second-Year Program                     Mediu-Tero  Progrm
Actions Taken             V*Condition of 2nd Tranche Release)
A.  Exoand Access to Basic fducattin
1. Expand primary and lower
secondary school Intakes as
per HOE program presented
In Annex A, Attachent 2.
a. Expand number of students        Goveriumnt has provided adequate        *mplemnt 2,900 classroom            Oevelop school map Nd
admitted to grade 1 of           FY16 financing to support school        building program according to       buildino program for reztest
primary school from 405,600    building program for 2,900 class-         criteria satisfactory to the        areas.
in 19U4 to 447770 in 1985       raom  per year average over period    Bank.  Confirm availability of
and 475,000 in 1986.             1986/87.                                adequate FY87 financing to
maintain building progrm;
b. Expand lower secondary           MOE raised grade 5 promotion rate        HOE to further Increase            Maintain progress in Imroving grade 5
school intakes (grade 6)         from 37.U In June 1984 to 49.0X in   grade 5 promtion rate to 54X in  prootion rates In subsequent years to achieve
as per HOE program presented   June 1985 to achieve 219,500              June 1986 so as to achieve grade  grade 6 intake growth targets as per NM(
in Annex A. Attachment 2.       grade 6 new intakes In October           6 new enrollment target for         progrm presented In Annex A, Apedix 2.
1985.                                   October 1986 (253,000).
c. Promote basic schooling in                                                 1. Carry out program for            1. Haintain the progrm.  HOE to evaluate   '
rural areas, with particular                                                  construction of primary             Impact on enrollmnts In rural areas.
attention to encouraging                                                      schools equipped with teacher
female enrollments.                                                           housing and student cafeterias
in remte rural areas. In
accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Bank.
II. Carry out the study to         II. Iplemnt and monitor multigrade
develop program of multi-           teaching progrm in remote rural areas.
grade teaching.
III. Give preference to female    III. Maintain policy of preferential assign-
teachers In assigning              ment of fmale teachers.
teachers to rural primary
schools with teacher
housing facilities.
I
.~~~~ _
Ooc 2789v
P-'a
o m
eo 0



SLMeinY OF MKASIE  A11 nIDWETKATIM jgfMj,
I. KALLOhUM
IISWLUITATXi  1eDLE
Policy Measures                                  First-Year Program                   Second-Year Progrm                     NMdium-Teom Progrm
Actions Taken             (zCondition of 2nd Tranche Release)
d. Iorove student flows in         See item  I                             Se  item It                        See Item 
pr1eary and secondary
schooling according to
Annx A, Attacuhent 2
schedule. throush measures
listed In Iteom 1. below.
S. Restrain Growth of-upper
Secondary. Hiaher Education
1. Restrain growth of upper
secondary school Intakes as
per schedule presented In
Annex A. Attactwent 2.
a. Reduce grade 9 promotion       MOE reduced grade 9 promotion rate    'hOE to reduce grade 9 promotion  Establish grade 9 promotion
rate according to schedule    fro  56.3  in June 1984 to 52. 0  in   rate from S2.0% In June 1965.to   rates for subsequent years to
presented in Annex A,          June 1965 so as not to exceed           4SX in June 1916 so as not to      meintain grade 10 intake  rowth         
Attachment 2.                  59.500 new enrollments In grade 10    exceed 90,100 new enrollments        as per schedule prfented in
In 1985/86 school year.                In grade 10 In 1986/C7 school    Annex A, Attach nt 2.
year.
b. Establish new diplome for                                              HOE to introduce the new           HOE to mintain aisrd of new
satisfactory completion of                                             diplomn  in June 196.              terminal diplin.
basic education (orade 9)
for those students not
progressing to upper
secondary level.
c. Oevelop program of                                                     "Initiate study to develop new    Complete plan for program;
career guidance In                                                     program.                           Zplement progrm.
lower secondary
schooling.
Doc 2789V
0 



PROPOSED IDITNI SIM1R   fzIQILfinm
S-QRY OF MAM         IA   LU  lAt     SCHIDLE
Policy measures                                  First-Year Program                    Second-Year Program                    Mediu-Tear  Progrm
(Actions Taken)            (OcCondition of 2nd Tranche Release)
2. Restrain growth of higher
education intakes and en-
rollments as per schedule
presented in Annex A.
Attachnt 2.
a. Institute control              HOE limited growth of new intakes        EO1 to limit overall              HOE to m*intain n limit on anual srowth
of admission to                in university faculties in 1955/16    growth of new intakes in             of new intakes to university faculties.
university faculties           school year below 2X ceiling.           university faculties so as
not to exceed n growth
ceiling for 1984/17 school year
b. Cancel second-phase            Governuent has cancelled correspond-  No new credtts to be made            Evaluate needs In higher educatin.
investment program for         ing budget credits, equivalent to       available for university
structures de foriution        US$100 million,                         investments.
oost-cueondaira
c. Develop an end-of-                                                     MOE to leplement In June 19.   HOE to maintain award of new certification.    4
secondary certification
to be distinct from
passing baccalaureat
exam.
d. Diversify university                                                    lnitiate study to prepare credit Complement study and  eplomnt  ro"ri.
courses                                                                hour systm and program of short
courses.
e. Restrain growth of recurrent  See Item lilA.                           See item lIA.                       See iteo EIlA.
expenditures on higher
education through measures
proposed under category
EllA, below.
Doc 2789V, p57
Ico U



PROPOSED EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
SUIOARY OF MEASURES AND IHPLIIXMTATIOu SCHEOULE
11.  EDUCATION fFFICIENCY
IMPLDEWTATICO SCHEDULE
Policy Measures                                   First-Year Program                     Second-Year Program                      Medlie-Term Program
(Actions Taken)            (r.Condition of 2nd Tranche Releaseo
A. Proarsssivmlv Red m
Reantitlon and Oroaout Ratel
in Irimrv and Smeondary Schanlin
1. Expand intakes to lower            Section lAlb.                            See Item lAlb.                       See Item IAlb.
secondary schoolino.
2. Limit total number of class        HOE Is applying these new class          HOE to maintain new restric-         HOE to maintain restrictions on class
repetitions to 2 years in          repetition restrictions.                 tians an class repetition,           repetition.
primary cycle (grades 1-S).
2 years In secondary cycle
(grades 6-12).
3. Develop resmdial                                                            *Initiate study to develop pro-   Finalize and Implement program of remedial
instruction for students                                                    oram of remedial instruction.        instruction in teacher training and in
with learning problems.                                                                                          basic schooling.
i. Lprove supply of basic            Governmnt has increased per-student  'Distribute Improved supply of    Maintain Improved supply of basic teaching
educational materials in           budget appropriations for basic          basic teachino materials to all   materials to all primry and secondary
primary and secondary              educational materials to 10 dirhans   primary schools in accordance           schools.
schooling                          at primary level and 4S dirhams at    with guidelinos satisfactory
the upper secondary level, and has    to the Bank.
developed a satisfactory list of
basic educational materials to be
provided to all primary schools.
Doc 2789V
0
co



Attachint 1
Page 6 of S
KIUOflO OF MOROCC
PROPOSED EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PRhGRA
SMUHRY OF  FAIUffS AMD IMPLEMETATION SCHEDULE
II.  EUATION EFFICIgNCY
INFLEHENTATION SCHEDULE
Policy Measures                                    First-Year Program                    Second-Year Program                      Medium-Term Progrm
(Actions Taken)            (4Condition of 2nd Tranche Release)
S. Stranathen Student Performance
Incentives in Hiaher Education
1. Reduce fellowships by SO% for        Iuplesented.                             'Maintain policy.                   Maintain policy.
first-time repeat students
pursuing Aliversity studies in
Morocco in a city other than
their place of residence; suspend
fellowship for subsequent class
repetitions. Reduce fellowships
by 5OX for all students pursuing
university studies In Morocco
in their city of residence;
suspend fellowships for any
repeated classes.
2. Suspend foreign fellowships for   MOE has issued directive on                 'DE to imple.ent policy.            Maintain policy.
all students repeating more than  iwpleiuntation.
one year of studies.
3. Limit class repetittons to once   MOE has issued instructions an              MOE to apply policy.                MOE to maintain policy.
during first two years of           policy.
university studies and once
during subsequent two years
of studies.
4. Develop and implement credit-       MOE has initiated study to develop    MOE to complete study to develop  IMplont credit-hour program.
hour system.                        credit-hour program.                     credit-hour program.
Doc 2789V, pS8
03



euaNsEas  IJA 0OF SECToReff  famaNa
SUH4ARY OF IEAIUIES AMA IPLEESJfTAT!aO 5CHUIJEI
111. CLKU UfLW5LUrCUX
IMPLEMENTATION SCNEDULE
Pol icy Measures                                  First-Year Progrm                      Second-Year Proram                      MHdium-Term Program
(Actions Taken)             (-Condition of 2nd TranCeo Release)
A. Restrain Grouth of Recurrent
Exemiditures an Hiaher Edueati1u
1. impose registration fees In        HOE has prepared lesal statute                                                HoE to iplment fee policy and monitor
all institutions of hisher         for Introduction of registration                                              cost recovery perfoineme.  PK  to progress-
education.                         fees.                                                                         ively raise fees to improve cost recovery.
2. Raise teaching hours.              lEE Issued Instruction to deans          'Maintain policy.                    maintain policy.
of faculties to raise average
required teaching hours by 202.
Measure Iplemented in I'S5/46
academic year.
3. Restore aneiume farul-             HOE has issued circular on policy        NEK to Institute ae1snk              HOE to progressively restore aGLIm=
for teacher training of            to directors of teacher training         fonrula for teacher training         finmle for secondary teacher
upper secondary teachers           institutions.  Govermnent has can-    as per HOE proposal.  Review            training, reallocate facilities and
(Iicsmlc  plus one-year            celled budgetary credits for new         draft program of inservice           staff to In-service teacher training.            o
pedagogical training) and          teacher training institutions.           teacher training; reallocate
lower secondary teachers                                                    surplus teacher training staff
(two years university plus                                                  and facilities for inservice
one-year pedagogical training).                                             training for existing teaching staff.
4. Replace teacher training gra-    Govern ent has lmplmwnted policy.    Maintain policy.                           Maintain policy.
salaires with stipends for all
levels of teacher training
equivalent to university fellow-
ship for graduate studies.
S. Reduce fellowships by SV0 for    Policy implemented.                        *Maintain polic).                    Maintain policy.
first-time non-resident repeat
students In Morocco and students
attending a faculty In their
place of residence; suspend
fellowship upon first class
repetition by resident students
and second class repetition by
non-resident students.
Doc 2789V
rt
BI-



Kx  ni Ng~t
PuaPOSIEDIn UATIOI SECMOR EEFO PIMWAM
SLI4AUY DIP NEAUIES ANO MLEIEUTATIWiSI4N        L
I.  CiST  EfltCTitui5T DECOVErY
IIPLEHEMTATIONI 5CNElUjLE
Policy measures                                   First-Year Program                      Second-Year Progrm                       Nditu-Teru Progrm
(Actions Taken)             (ICondition of 2nd Tranch  Release)
6. Reduce boarding in                 Goavewent has Cancelled US$45             Govermnet to undertake no           Progressively reduce boarding, and Increase
university facilities;             million budgetary credit for new         new boarding facilities,             fees to imrove cost recovery, reallocating
strengthen cost recovery           dormitory construction.                                                       facilities and staff to highr priority uses.
7. Tighten fellowship eligibi-        MOE Is limiting eligibility for            MOCE to maintain policy.           NOE to maintain policy.
lity criteria for overseas         foreign fellowships according to
students.                          lit& limitatIvs  of specializations
qualifying for foreign study fellaw-
ships.
S. Ioose incmo criterion              HOE has established mtrix of              wMC to implnt incio                 HOE to mintain policy.
for fellowship eligi-              incmo ceilings to be applied. in         criterion.
bility upon financial need.        determinino eligibility for
university fellowships.
B. Contain Primary and
Secondary Schoo,
Canstrurtion Ca=t
1. Reduce unit costs                  MOE has adopted revised primry           HOE to i1plemnt revised norwa    MOE to inlmnt new cost-redution
of primary and secondary           school construction norm% satis-          In context of new school con-       measures.
school construction.               factory to the lank.                     struction progrm. and to co
plete study an further cost
reductlon masures.
2. Reduce school replace-                                                       Carry out study to develop          ZplInnt school mintenace
mnt requirements through                                                    mintance progrm  for edu-            prorm.
improved school min-                                                        cational facilities at all
tenance.                                                                    levels.
Doc 2789V. p61
Go



KIIGDOH OF MOROCCD
PROPOSEO ENUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAH
SUFNARY OF HtASIURES AND REFQRH SCHEIDULE
II11 COST REOUCTIAU/CST RECOVERY
IMPLEHENTATXOi SCHEDULE
Policy Measures                                    First-Year Program                    Second-Year Program                      Medium-Term Proram
(Actions Taken)             (O^Condition of 2nd Tranche Release)
C. Imorove Productivity
of Education Personnel
1. Reduce ratio oF                    MOE has begun to reduce ratio of         I) 1OE to continue to reduce         MOE to continue to reduce ratio of
administrative to                  administrative/teaching staff in         ratio of secondary administra-    admtnistrative to teaching staff.
teaching staff at                  secondary schooling as per indica-    tive to teaching staff as per           Implement recoended measures to
secondary level.                   tors in schedule presented in Annex   schedule presented in Annex A,    streamline secondary school admini-
A, Attaclwent 2.                         Attachment 2.                       stration.
it) ^HOE to intiate study to
identify additional wasures to
streamline secondary school
administration (See IteM UIA2).
2. Raise university teaching           (See Item I11A2)                         (See Item IHA2I                     (See Item hE1Al)
hours                                                                                                                                                             C%
3. Raise secondary teacher            MOE achieved in 1985/86 school           MOE to maintain policy in order   MOE to maintain and monitor measures for
productivity.                      year lower ratio of teachers per         to achieve performance targets    improved teacher productivity.
class as per schedule presented          as per schedule presented in
In Annex A, Attachment 2 through        Annex A, Attachment 2.
increased teaching hours and
improved planning of teacher
allocation.
0. Strenuthen orivate sector              MOE has prepared draft legislation   *^OE to undertake study to              MOE to Implement policy of strengthened
DarticiDation in education,           on private investment incentives,         develop improved MOE support        MOE support for private schooling.
of private schooling.
Doc 2789V, p62
co
C rt>
0a
nt



-63-                          Annex A
Attachment 2
Performance Indi cators
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table I - Projected Evolution of Efficiency Rates in Primary
and Secondary Schooling
Table 2 - Projected Evolution of Enrollments in Primary and
Secondary Schooling
Table 3 - Projected Evolution of Physical Facilities, Staff,
and Unit Costs by Level, Education Reform
Program Phase I
Table 4 - Projected Evolution of Efficiency Rates in Higher
Education
Table 5 - Projected Evolution of Enrollments in Higher Education
(Literature, Sciences and Law)
Table 6 - Projected Evolution of Enrollments in Higher Education
Su mmaary for All Domains



Prformce Indicators
PROJECTED EVOLUTlro OF EFFICIENCY RATES IN PUOWATY AND A EM CODAY 6CMOCLMIII
EOUCATION RErOR P3IMA
EFFICIENCY RATES (in pereentaifs)
1964/65  9965/66  9966/67  1i96/5   1966/69  1,69/90   990/91 19"9/92  I/93 J"11/94  1994/3   I95/"
Grade EftieelncV
Parameters
I  ProtlIon            71.      74.0     77.0  r 1.0       67.0    67.0  O7.0    67.0          67.0    17.0       67.0    67.0
Repetitlon         19,3     19.0    16.0       11.0     10.0     10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Drop-Out            9.4      7.0      5.0      1.0       3.0     5.0       .0      3.0      3.0 .0           3.0      3.0
2   Pramotien          7s.6     T9.0    80.0    65.0       67.o 0   6.0       67.0     60       *.o0    67.0    17.0       6o.0
Repetition         16.3     16.0     1T.0      11.0     10.0     10.0     10.0    10.0    90.0    10.0    10.0         10.0
Drop-Out            5.1      1.0      *.0      5.0      5.0      8.0       5.0      3.0      1.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
3  PromotIon           74.6     76.0      7.0o    T9.0    65.0    67.0       6T.0     67.0    61o7.0     67.0  *17.0    67T.O
Repetition           19    19.0      16.0       .o      12.0     to.0    10.0    10.0    1o.0        10.0     10.0    10.0
Drop-aut            6.4      5.0      6.0      4.0      3.0       1.0      5.0      3.0      1.0      5.0      3.0      3.0
4  PromotIon           73.6    76.0      73.0    60.0    62.0       65.0      7.o      r7.0   o6.0       *7.0     6T.0    M7.O
Repetition         16.t    16.0      16.0      15.0     14.0    1l.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0    10.0       10.0
Drop-Out           10.2      6.0      7.0      6.0      4.0       5.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      J.0      3.0
5  Promotion           17.9     47.0    54.0    60.0       6o0    64.0         7.0    60.0      6.o      6T.o0     7.0     6T.0
Repetition         3.        M.      13.0    It0.       16.0    10.0    10.0    10.0        10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0
Drop-Out           34.3    27.0    33.O        M.0    16.0       6.0       3.0    10.0       4.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
6   PromotIon          67.1    65.0    65.0       65.0     65.0    65.0       60.0    70.0    70.0    TO.0    70.0    TO.0    *
Repetition          6.5      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0       9.0    10.0      10.0     10.0    10.0      10.0    100:
Drop-Out            4. 3     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    20.0    10.0            0.0 
T  PromotIon           65.6     67.0    67.o      67.0     67.0     67.0     67.0    67.0       61.0    67.0    67.0       6T.0
Repetition         11.1     10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0     10.0     10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Drop-out            3.3      3.0      1.0      5.0      3.0       3.0      1.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      5.0      3.0
6   Promotion          83.5    64.0      65.0    66.0      67.0    67.0    67.0    67.0    67.o    67.0           67.0    6T.O
Repetition         11.9     13.0     11.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Drop-Out            4.6      4.0      4.0      4.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      1.0      3.0
9   Promotion          56.3     60.0     45.0     4t.0     40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0
Repetition         51.3    33.0      14.0     35.0      36.0    35.0      35.0    30.0    33.0    35.0    10.0         3O.0
Drop-out           1.4      17.0     21.0      3. 0    24.0    35.0       27.0    30.0    13.0       35.0    40.0    40.0
10 PromotIon           74.3     77.1      6.     60.6   862.2    64.3    64.7    16.1    66.6    66.1    66.6              61.0
Repetition         15.T     14.9     14.4    1.9       11.9     10.4      9.9      9.9      9.4      6.9      5.4      6.0
Drop-Out           10.1      6.0      6.6      6.3      5.9      5.4       5.4      4.9      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
11 Promotion           33.4     04.3    65.1    65.6    66.3    66.6         67.0    67.0    67.0    67.0         6T.O    T7.O
Repetition          9.6      9.3      9.1      9.3 z      .O      6.4      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      c.0      6.0    e
Drop-Out              7      5.9      5.0      6.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0    ft
12 Promotion           37.1     16.1     36.1     16.1    19.7    40.3    40.7    40.9    41.9    40.6    40.              16.6  
Repetition         t9.1     23.5     37.4    21.5      33.5    23.6    31.7    30.9         10.0    e0.0 o     0.0     30.0  *
Drop-Out           53.6     38.4     54.5     36.3    36.6       37.J     37.6    36 2      36.9    39.3      39.9     41 .3
pi



Performnce Indicators
PROJECTED EVOLUT1Cr EOfrLLfNES IN P31638? AMD SECONoRY  C4cOOLINS
EOtCrAT10N REFVOEn PROGRAN
Grade     Enrol Omnts        1984/65  9965/66  1966/17  1937/86  1906/69  1989/90  9990/il   991/92   9s2n/3  t993/94  194/9   1995/"
I New intakes              405,600  439.900  475,400  499,100  113,700  149,100  511,500  603.700  630.00  559,900  70Too,0 am        ,100
Age 7 PopulotIon       671,000  604,000  676,000  640.000  644,000  665,000   10,0000  660,000  653,000  66,6000  719000  151,000
Not Enrollment Ratio      60.4     64.3      T0.      76x ro.ox    61.3X    63.62  6 a4.62   381.5   M6x ff.fX    9a1.2          "6.2
Repeaters                99,553   95,979   96.456   Gooses    5,r71    56,046   60,715   63,61   6s6.3e   59,713   71,964   77,615
Total Enrollm_nt        505,15e  s35,15 9  571,1656   7,0113  560,493  107,146  635,215  466,631  597,413  719,643  776,764  T9,97s6
1  New Initeks             157T775  573,1te  416,127  406,079  494,006 005,020  511.119  553,507  OTO9,7tO O0,166  634,T90  677tt6,
Repeaters                93.9132  61,715   7T,1t    56, 63    54,491   14,650   55,967   56,411  61.193   64,069   67.06    TO, 16
Total Enrollm_nt        459,907  456,59S  490,146  544,909  546,497  059,369  534,30611,927  640,691  670,615  701,675  747,7.1
3  How nntdkes             355,547  353,327  3615,2T7  415,711 474,011  477,191  487,066  50,199  533,57T1  65T,756  643,644  610,051
Repeaters                1o,661   90,135   61,6s3    75,1S7   59,112   53.519   53,051   14,014   6,1e1   361,660  6c,444   64,s59
Total Enrollment        474,330  453,449  446,697  49e,663  555,195  530.513  540,151  56OC,Z3n  5s6,604  616,437  645,n1  6T,1160
4  New Intates             345,196  160,491 J49,156  353,049  418,.71  463,676  469,545  469,920  469,1T7   51,066  536,500  561,400
Repeaters                67.906   "6,5T    64,060   61,962   56,104   57,216   61,110   51,36"  5E,139   54,1S1   56,ea   19, "1
Total Enrollment        416,103  427,067  413,115  415,031  4T6,65  5321,104  S13,656  5J1,15, 641,306  546,315  591,91C 630,649
5  New Intakes             305,519  316,359  333,112  350,573  340,316  405,352  455,361  446,040  453,616  47o,9s1  491,606  515,a4
Repeaters               139,14a  115,394   99,o05   6,54   56,7s5   40,T06   44,564   49,197  419,66    50,399   68,135   54,413 1
Total Enrollment        447,667  433,633  431,618  417,096  407,001  446,069  497,911  496,6TT  503, 16   5C1,255  544,n34  070,315 o%
C  Now Intakes             169,To2  210,404  353,631  359,579  e93,626  349,951  366,071  396,573  427,141  437,T7e  453,493  417,9161
Repeaters                15,40    16.459   2o,596   1eo,60   35,41    27T,64   36,975   42,506   44,066   47,13    46,469   50.194
Total Enrollment        106,104  118,165  154,1s19  161,40 S09,046  3g,7T46  415,046  440,616  471,210  464,591  509,961  514,111
7 New Intakes              156,193  tT4,139  194,534  315,066  240,063  4161,69  296,796  197,53z  306,614  3a2,"6  3559,416  351,16T
Repeaters                19,5392   17,75    19,1e0   31,574   23,T46    6,3163  23,901   3Z,4T0   33,000   34,151   36,402   17,545
Total Enrollm nt        I77,545  192,097  113,743  237,460  363,619  259,073  324,704  310,002  341,615  364,033  *T1.S26  36.970
6  Now Intakes             149,545  954,499  157,11t4  166,957  30,591  229,535  159,493  262,492  157,102  29,s 30   595T,O  336,979
Repeaters                16,464   10,161   19,293   16,634   30,469   22,7045   a,214  1T,6s7    51,016  35,612  12,901   34,f60
Total Enrollment        196,009  174,660  116,337  104,590  127,050  352,136  e76,T16  510,164  316,116  319,017  349,609  361.939
9  New Intakes             929,556  149,1936  14,461  160,160  Itr,V94  199,135  219,445  340,743  219,642   76,163  4166,144  504,163
Repeater.                49,379   59,046   66,060   75,763   64,9712   9,a56   95,556   94,501   95,566   90,093    13,o51    71,96f7
Total Enroll mnt        176,935  200,976  195,631  136,031  162,965  159,571  315,004  515,244  363.711  367T691  559,763 3S7,10
l0  lew Intakeo              66,696   59,467   90,079   90,939   94,45  906,165  995,536  136,00Wa  934,056  t4,464  147,075  145,903
Repeaters                97,741   i5,677   96,7lO   13,577   1a,417   11,911   11,514   13,607   11,029   93,094   1S,3s2   13s,63
Total Enrollment        906,560  946,345  105,349  104,596  906,650  995,196  927,343  116,606  947,1a7   168.579  160,39T  156,T4S
It New Intakes               63,650   51,156   6s.091   65,041   55,992   59,916  96,505  190,495  10,649  116,476  loe,3           I 315, 546
Repeaters                 6,969    9,010    5,644    6,459    a,227    7,0o6   7,650    6,50T    9,360   10,a49   0o,95s   1s9.         C
Total Enrollment         93,059   99,916   91,656   93,498   94,139   97,676  906,535  197,002  191,009  116,917  14,162e  151.
lz  New Intakes       tr ,t43   77,569   T77             Ts76,612   60,590   69,515   65,151   9e,69  9o0,193  111,316  119,113  lat. ,
Repeaters                39,967   21,761   27,770   Z6,914   a4,645   23,636   12,162  21,0515   2S,017    4,961   a7,16    et M9T.3 7
Total Enrollment         01,109  909,349  905,544  105,T13   105,436  0o,353  106,091  115,066  1984,6    136,350  146,304  1516 List
Graduates                37,511   36,614   40,313   40,367   41,466   41,15e   43,969   4T,0TO   61,297   551,63    36,700   9,494 1
M



- 66 -                   Annex A. Attachnent 2
Table 3
Performance Indi cators                   Page 1 of 2
PROJECTED EVOLUTION OF PHYSICAL FACILITIES, STAFF,
AND UNIT COSTS BY LEVEL,
EDUCrATION REFORN PROGRAM PHASE I
Actual      Reform Program Phase I
1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1967/88
PRINARY LEVEL
Total Enrollments (xl,OOO)    2,303      2,306     2,355      2.438
Students per Class              31.3      31.1      31.5       32.0
Classes                       73,570    74,125    74,757    76,173
Classes per Classroom           1.59      1.54       1.47      1.42
Number of Classrooms          46,318    48,034    50,855    53,490
Classrooms per School (New    14.94       10.0       10.0      10.0
Facilities required
New Classrooms                 555     1,716     2,821      2,635
Replacements                   229       232       240        254
Total                          784     1,948     3.061      2,890
Teacher Housing Units          139       429        705       659
Canteens                        83       257       423        395
Teaching Staff
Teachers                    76,798    78,218    77,448    78,611
New Posts                    4,844     1,420       (770)    1.163
Attrition                    2.096     2,207     2,224      2,243
Total to Recruit             6,940     3,627      1,454     3,405
School Administrators
Staff                       13,145    13.676    14,571    15.270
Total to Recruit               985       531       895        699
Unit Recurrent Cost *
(January 1986 DH)             959        921       833        780
LOWER SECONDARY LEVEL
Total Enrollments (x1,000)       730       796        871       961
Students per Class              38.0      30.0      30.0       30.0
Classes                       19,201    26.527    29,027    32,018
Classes per Classroom            1.2      1.45       1.45       1.4
Number of Classrooms          16.001    18,294    20,019    22,870
Classrooms per School           30.0      20.0      20.0       20.0
Facilities Required
New Classrooms               1,449     2,293     1,725      2,851
New Schools                     48       115        86        143
Replacements                     3         3         4          4
Total New Schools               51       118        90        147
Boarding Faoilities              7        17         13        21
New Boarders (Cum.)          1.680     5,760     6.860    13.920
Teaching Staff
Ratio Teacher/Class           1.86      1.43      1.40       1.41
Total Teaching Staff        35,634    37.843    40,638    45,036
New Posts                    4,225     2.210     2.795      4.397
Attrition                    1,069     1,135      1.219     1,351
Total to Recruit             5,294     3.345     4,014      5,748
School Administrators
Staff                       12,497    13,759    14.707    16,275
Total to Recruit               531     1.261        949     1.568
Unit Recurrent Cost *
(January 1906 DH)           2.012      1.870     1.693      1,612



- 67 -                    Annex A, Attachment 2
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
Performance Indi cators
PROJECTED EVOLUTION OF PHYSICAL FACILITIES, STAFF,
AND UNIT COSTS BY LEVEL,
EDUCATION REFORN PROGRAM PHASE I
1984/85   1985,86   1986/87   1987/88
UPPER SECONDARY LEVEL
Total Enrollments (x1,000)         300         298        303        304
Students per Class                36.5       35.8       35.5        35.0
Classes                          8,211      8,320      8,525      8,678
Classes per Classroom              1.1         1.1        1.1        1.1
Number of Classrooms             7,465      7,564      7,750      7,889
Classrooms per School             31.0       30.0       30.0        30.0
Facilities Required
New Schools                        2          3          6           5
incl. Education IV                 0          4          7          0
Replacements                       I           1          1          1
Total New Schools                  3          0          0           6
Boarding Facilities                0          0           1          1
New Boarders (cum.)                0          0        240        480
Teaching Staff
Ratio Teacher/Class             2.11       2.11       2.05        1.99
Total Teaching Staff          17,286    17,556    17,477    17,269
New Posts                        929        270         (79)      (207)
Attrition                        519      2.107      1,969      1,292
Total to Recruit               1,448      2,377      1,820      1,085
School Administrators
Staff                          6,029      6,065      6,134      6,185
Total to Recruit                  17         36         68          51
Unit Recurrent Cost *
(January 1986 DH)             3,344       3,192      2,944      2,614
* The projected decline in unit recurrent costs, expressed in constant terms,
refLects the net effect of projected enroLLments and projected needs for
faciLities and staff, as shown above. Total costs are derived by appLying
the current scheduLe of saLaries, benefits, and other unit costs to the
respective staff and facilities needs projected here. Unit costs equaL
totaL costs divided by totaL enrollments at each leveL.



Performance Indicators
PRCJECTED EVOLUTION OF EFFICIEWOT RATES IN HIGHER EDOUCATON (in pereont0ges)
EOtDCATION REFORt1 POSAN
Domalni    Efficiency
Grade     Parameters   1954/05  1905/16  1956/67  1987/88  1966/69  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/98  1993/94  1994/90  1995/90
LITERATURE
I     PromotIon        36.7    43.0      40.0      54.0     60.0     65.0     T0.0     75.0     75.0     75.0      75.0    75.0
Repetition      44.6     3. 0     e7.0      23.0     *3.0     10.0     17.0     15.0      15.0     15.0     15.0    15.0
Orop-Out        16.5      5. eo    5.0      23.0     17.0     15.0     13.0     10.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0
2      PromotIon       61.9     63.0     66.0      70.0    75.0    o0.0       65.0     90.0     90.0     90.0      90.0    90.0
Repetitlon      33.1     30.0    39.0       15.0    10.0      15.0     10.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
Drop-out         5.0      7.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
3      Promotion       75.3     70.0    7o.0       75.0    60.0      55.0    90.0    90.0       90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0
Repetition      84.C     ec.0     3.        10.0     15.0     10.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       6.0      5.0      5.0
Drop-out         0.5      6.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
4      Promotion       79.7     50.0     61.0      65.0     67.0     90.0     90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0    90.0
Repetition      19.1     14.0      14.0     10.0      6.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
orop-out         I.E      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       0.0      5.0
SCIENCES
I     Promotion        24.1     31.0     39.0      47.0    05.0      63.0     69.0     75.0     r5.0     75.0      75.0     75.0
Repetition      43.7     35.0     30.0       6.0     36. 0    34.0    42.0      10.0     20.0     30.0      30.0    10.0
Drop-Out        32.e    34.0      31.0    eo.0       99.0    14.0       9.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
2      Promotion       54.4     54.0     60.0      63.0    67.o      71.0     75.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    50.0
Repetition      37.4     33.0     37.0      33.0     19.0     15.0     13.0     15.0      15.0     15.0     15.0    15.0
Drop-out         6.t     13.0      15.0     14.0     14.0     14.0     13.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0
3      Promotion       52.4     55.0    69.0       67.0     71.0     77.0     83.0     90.0     90.0    90.0       90.0     90.0
Repetition      29.9     31.0     27.0      23.0     19.0     15.0     15.0     10.0     10.0    10.0       10.0    10.0
orep-Out        17.r     13.0     11.0      10.0     10.0      6.0 0.0           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
4      Promotion       79.0     66.0     62.0      56.0     0o.0     74.0     60.0     90.0     90.0    90.0       90.0     90.0
Repetition      19.0     23.0     30.0      e6.0     36.0     Z4.0     !O.O     10.0      10.0     10.0     10.0    10.0
Drop-Out         a.%)     9.0      8.0      6.0       4.0      2.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
LAW
I     PrometiOn        37.9     39.0     35.0     4E.0      49.0     56.0     63.0     70.0     70.0    70.0       T0.0     T0.0
Repetition      53.3     41.0     37.0      33.0     30.0     37.0     24.0     20.0     20.0     1o.0      30.0     20.0
Drop-out        M6.6     30.0     36.0      35.0     11.0     17.0     13.0     10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0     10.0
3      Promotlon       46.3    59.0    65.0        66.0     71.0    T4.0      17.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0
Repetition      46.6     36.0     30        37.0     O4.0     21.0     1.0      15.0     1.0       15.0     15.0     15.0
Drop-Out         5.1      3.0      4.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      6.0       5.0      5.0
3      PromotIon        66.4    72.0     75.0      77.0    79.0      61.0     63.0    65.0      65.0      5.0    65.0    65.0 
Repetition      16.1     15.0     21.0      16.0    16.0      14.0      11.0    10.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0
Orop-Out         7.4      3.0      4.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
4      Promotion       75.0     74.0     75.0      76.0     61.0     63.0     .6.0     90.0     90.0     90.0      90.0     90.0
Repetition      33.7     1e.0     21.0      97.0     94.0     13.0      9.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0  *
orop-aut         9.3      4.0      4.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      0.0      5.0       5.0      5.0   .3
hi



Performance Indicators
PROJECTED tVOLUTION Or ENRCLUIENTS IN HIGOER EDUCATION
EDUCATION REFOORY PROGRAM
Domain/   Efficlency
Gride      Par etere   1914/55  1955/86  1906/T  19ST7/88  1989/09  1989/90  1990/91  1991/91  1993/91  1993/94  1994/9%  1999/90
LITERATURE
I   Now Intake         16,936   16,902   11,665   16,760   16,147   16,931   17,011   17,016   17,117   17,146   17.16   IT,109
Repeaters         90,128    o,660    6,90e    5,4z0    5,109    4,390    3,6a5    3,095    3,027    3,022    3,0Z5    1,039
Enrollments       e7,06I   20,568   13,167   23,170   21,940  et,32i   e0,636   10,111   30,144   10,lo9   2O,204  za,340
2   New Intailes        8,739   19,636   12,270   f2,716   13,307   14,266   14,924   15,477   15,13S   15.106   15,107   15.153
Ropeaters          2,915    3,496    4,310       4,164    3,376    1,603    9,677         630       615       796      795       796
Enrollments       11,653   1 5,93    11,650   16,890   1s,665   16,769   1b,601   16,307   15,951   15,909   15, 91    15,949
3   New Intakes        6,450    7,342    9,907   1l,161   11,616   13,346   14,E54   14,941   14,676   14,356   14,115   14,330
Repeaters          1,506    9,531    Z,198    2,449    3,15s   1,476            741       750       765       773      75o       754
Enrollments        6,956    0,07C   92,205   14,10e   14,763   14,86E  14,995   15,691   15,469  195, 99   1,071    5,06a4
4   New Intake.         4,697    4,619    6,11t    9,164  I9,1el   12,566   93,344   13,495   14,111   13,915   13,616   13,564
Repeaters             736      759       763       700       706       603      5o6       TOO       710       742      733       717
Enrollwent.        5,4t2    5,630    6,999    9,154   13,070   13,169   14,002   14,196   94,632   14,656   14,349   14,112
Total Enrollment.         51,095   15,196   89,429   53,024   65,466   66,005   66,234   66,375   66,367   65,060   65,546   65,554
SCIENCES
I   New Intakes       12,71T   13,417   l3,54    14,547   15,6O6   16,014   96,704   17,579   16,394   19,0T7   1990,1   2oT0o1
Repeeters          5,070    7,163    6,116    5,616    5,143    4,923    4,606    4,276    4,371    4,537    4,713    4,91o
Enrolllmnts       10,607   20,720   20,064   3O,1S5   2o,o11   20,937   21,190   31,557   11,615   r3,616   14,599   15,6 n
2   Now Intakes         4,446    6,450 W    ,061    9,430   11,O0t   11,717   i4,446   16,043   16,393   17,094   17,79    96,449 
Repeaters           1,490    1,959    2,7T0    2,369    3,844    1,000    1,913    3,454    a,774    B,575    1,963    3,104
Enrollment.        5,936    6,409   10,351  l,611   9,335   94,717   96,359   96,496   19,167   99,669   10,690   21,554
3   Now Intakeo         e,164    3,205    4,677    6oo11    7,913   9,435   11,03a   13,066    4,7T9T   15,334   15,911   tog,5
Repeaters             715      940    ,1919    9,379    9,60    19,492    9.612    9.167    1,415    1,613    1,696    1.T7l
Enrollm_nt.        2,939    4,146    5,997    7,90    9,414   10,650   92,570   I4,355   96,213   96,957   17,607   16,317
4   Ye-  lteItkes       4,36      1,616   3t,519    4,016    5,609    7,249    9,030   99,403  19,999   14,609   95lo6f   95,646
RePeaters            L23       365       594       576    l,1e7    9,1O5      1,760    9,061    1,343    1,497    9,601    1,666
Enrollments         1,506    1,951    3,123    4,692    5,661    1,90o   10,690   92,464   14,967   96,016   16,664   97,531
Total Enrollment.         31,266   35,256   59,135   44,766   50,141   05,434   61,230   s7,192  T7,153  T7,466   T9,755   63,030
LAW
I   Now Intakes        7,644    7,316    7,194    7,154    7,191    7,319    7,364    7,397    7,493    7,364    7,364    7,364
Repeaters          5,49T    5,336    4,700    3,93e    3,356    2,675    2,449    9,963    1,871            ,oo65    1,644    90342 
Enrollments       13,149   f2,704   11,914   99,966   10,640   90,104    9,693    9,360    9,2o6    -0%2             9,1m      9.0ro 
2   Now Intakes         1,673    3,069     4,446    5,004    5,481    5,963    6,411    6,169    6,55           6,S00    6,455    6.446
Repeatrer          2,049    1,669    9,7         9,676    9,603    9,466    9,341    I,6          9o,0     9,964    9,149    9,949 
Enrollments        4,919    5,660    6,10        6,660    7,064    7,450    7,T7O    6,034    7,T5         7,661    7,04    7,5o 
it
3   New Intakes         1,117     ,902    1,692    4,811    4,743    5,14e    5,737    6,9e    6,426    6,106    6,930             ,0o6s
Repeater.          1,919       61l       6oo       6o        604       777     7Te        646       666       711      692       s6e e -
Enrolleents        3,246    3,714    4,471    5,016    5,547    6,099    6,459    6,66 "           ,194    6,917    6,332    *,7o?
4   New Intakes         9,762    2,337    e,765    3,443    3,970    4,493    4,996    3,490    B,631    6,047    5,679    5,7IT
Repeaters            142       529       G0o       5ST      563       544       453       273       ge3       306      3S1       310
Enrollments        2,404    3,o66      3,367    4,019    4,653    5,037    5,449    5,763    6,120    6,353    6,997    6,109
Total Enrollments         23,790   14,963   35,960   26,919   17,693   16,7lo   19,499   30,016   30,216   30,14   19,339   a,666



Performance Indicators
PROJECTED EVOLUTION OF ENROLLMENTS IN HIGHER EDUCATION
SUNEARY FOR ALL DOMAINS
EDUCATION  REFORM PROGRAM
Domain/   Efficlency
Grade     Parameters   1984/85  1985/66  1906/87  1981/86  1988/69  1969/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96
LITERATURE
Now Intakes       16,936   16,902   16,665   16,758   16,847   16,931   17,011   17,066   17,117   17,148   17,176   17,209
Enrollments       51,095   55,196   59,429   63,024   65,416   66,085   66,234   66,375   66,387   65,660   65,546   65,554
SCIENCES
Neow Intakes      12,737   13,437   13,640   14,547   15,268   16,014   16,764   17,579   16,314   19,079   19,676   20,707
Enrollments       31,268   35,256   39,535   44,766   60,141   55,434   61,230   67,192   72,252   T6,456   79,765   63,030
LAW
New Intakes        7,644    7,316    7,214    7,254    7,292    7,329    7,364    7,397    7,413    7,364    7,364    7,364
Enrollments       23,710   84,963   25,960   26,911   27,612   86,710   29,491   30,016   30,276    0,154   29,039   29,666
ENGINEERING
New Intakes          165      650    1,430    1,430    1,430    1,430    1,430    1,430    1,430    1,430    1,430    1,430
Enrollments          564    2,370    2,730    3,450    4,135    4,135    4,135    4,135    4,136    4,135    4,135    4,135           1
nEDEclNE C
New Intakes        1,054    1,040    1,040    1,040    1,040    1,040    1,040    1,040    1,040    1,040    1,040    1,040
Enrollments        7,634    6,765    6,750    6,740    6,500    6,400    6,200    6,200    6,200    6,200    6,e20         6,200
ISLAMIC STUDIES
New Intakes        1,551    1,865    1,839    1,649    1,659    1,866    1, 67    1,865    1,655             ,6   1,5    1,665
Enrollments        4,691    5,337    5,980    6,531    6,865    7,165    7,274    7,402    7,402    7,402    7,402    7,402
TOTAL ENROLLMENTS
New Intakes       40,367   41,210   42,036   42,876   43,736   44,618   45,506   46,417   47,198   47,945   46,774   49,635
Enrollments      1t19,1    129,8s7  140,404  151,424  160,959  167,929  174,563  161,322  156,653  190,238  192,660  195,967
UNIT RECURPENT COST      Actual    Reform Program Phase I
(January 1966 0D)   9,2l2    8,556    6,932    6,457
* 0:
cr
N- P



- 71 -
Annex B
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Cost Projection Method
1.       The projections of education recurrent and investment costs with and
without the adjustment program starts with an age- and sex-specific population
projection. Enrollments are projected according to the intake and efficiency
parameters presented in Annex B. For each level of schooling, enrollments are
assumed to generate a demand for schools, teachers, administrative staff,
service staff, teaching materials, and other materials.  These increments to
the education infrastructure in turn are assumed to generate demand for
additional teacher training institutions and staff, and reinforcement of MOE
central and  regional  administration.   School  construction requirements  to
accommodate enrollment in a given year are translated into prior investment
requirements via a distributed lag investment function which reflects the
different  gestation  of  schooling  construction  by  level  of  schooling.
Prevailing unit costs of school construction at each level are modified in the
with-reform projections to reflect the application of agreed changes in norms
designed to reduce school costs and promote rural school attendance.
Recurrent costs of additional (and existing) MOE staff are modelled taking
into account the effect upon the MOE wage bill of seniority salary increases
and  prospective   inflation.    Fellowship   and   teacher   training   stipend
requirements are estimated according to the projected changes in enrollments
at each level by eligibility categories. The impact of the adjustment program
is modelled by relating individual reform measures with parameteres for school
intakes, schooling efficiency, intensity of teacher and classroom use, and
administration and teacher training requirements associated with enrollment
changes at each level of schooling. Receipts from registration and boarding
fees  are  treated  in  the  same  fashion.   The evolution of  investment  and
recurrent cost components under the adjustment program starts with prevailing
coefficients for each of the above linkages and modifies these over time to
reflect the application of specific reform measures.
2.       The situation of no adjustment is modelled by assuming  that  the
historical rate of growth of grade 1 student intakes (3.0Z per year between
1978/79 and 1984/85) is maintained throughout the projection period, that the
observed (1984/85) base-year parameters are constant over time, and that
investments programmed in the 1984 Loi de Finance are implemented on schedule.
Doc 2789V



11 I N IO O N   O F   RO R O C C O
RI N ISTIT    OF EIUCATI0 N
PROIOP ED  SU IUIEI UNIlER  IHE  IIUCAT I0N REFOIIN PRR06AAN
I   FIELI/      I       IITLE       I             UiECIiVES              I  IEWUSIIILITY    I                         Kitl=l                         I        tIKE OF           I                     Milik  tmIsilCE                           I
I     LEVEL      I                  I                                     I                                                                          I     Il      TATIN        I                                                               a
I----__----*--__--__--   *--_--------.----_-I                                                            -                    _-     -_----_     --__                          --__                                             - *
i. c  iwszca I                     I
IPIINI  AN       11.1 Study an     It1  devote, test, ad  opaicmt    ISpecil  Coulttte    1- kietob at d4 batteries of test lstruets                 1- 1.lu   a res 2-112 y  rl- Imoerts: 6    ths total (d IcA d .th it11s 1.2 .4  I.JI.I
ISEUCMY          litadardilzed     lbatteri   of tInt initriusett fwr   wader the attkerity ataiop into iccat cworisl. aid awnino                     poriod, stua l t  In i.   ISjutisw   to aeit the Ct      Itt. is (i di    SW              I
ILUYE S    Inachivat tntsloemrlioq ad oiterilm  ppil                     lsf    l Utosts  lectiml ut ky VrLde aid ale Vwap                          IHAitc  1111               idmilomt Of haelti  uvoy Of ualdvemt Imle                       I
II                aerferce il b&sic  tceoligl    lfor Primay ad                I- Preu9ratim  of a  actim  ptrWru fwr               I                          ltl dorivati. of test hattrin by 1en   ad     ijI tt            I
I               aI                 aleldi   Ia to                         ltecadiry Ictl,.In        i     tatiulad standardacAtia of tests.          I                          I""l ptaticipati  in Wyly, ptiaclwly fier kid. 5 .    I
:                I                 I                                     Ia liuti. teu.Y; (dl traluip of itluml                                                                                                                                 I
I  1  5                                                                                                                             Im~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~valutlin teo".  I
I                         I                           I                             I                                                                                           I                          Ilte    "                            I
1               11.2 Strdy a       lTo strniitu capaity of teathers ISpaial Committee   1- ldetificatasm  of ujor prdieo   for pupil                 I-  edS. torsi 2112 yorl- Ilmprts: 12 mbvs in 1911-17. mjective  to assist the   1 
I               IdUloostic         Ito dlagon. pupa  learnaig            lider tke uethbrity llerolog is en . Klects Ia  senW ttd gadf.l               eriod, strting In        ICeuttie Is (a) dovolo       t of  itatic telsl (hi te   It
Iteoti;           Idifficulties.                        1sf the Ieartuats  I- hvletpnt of pilot tist instritts and                  larch 1I1                  Itraimag of Ispqtts And welectW  tchwr trulors.                 I
I               I                  I                                     Ifor Primry ai"d "tra 9g ProraW fIr gllKt*d toahbi   stafl t          i    a                                                                                           I
I  I               I                                    .SIetdary Education.lastaq dti stic tools ad Minin  f idl                   :                          I                                                               I
II                                           I                   I                             litlaiw.                                                                                                                                         I
l~ ~   ~ ~~~                                                     ~          ~~~                                                                 ~            ~~~~~~~~ l :tl    l  l
1               11.J Study as      lTo tntworage grade erotisa ed    Special Cositte   I- kvilopet a2d iupl-oi1tation .f the first                   I- Redi. t.erm  2-112 yearl- Imort.:. 12 mints in IWO6-17. Objectives to assist th    I
I               Irnedial           licprno  pupil ahtirmtst livls   Indwr the uthiarity loaen of a phl  for iuutitmtlializig ruseial   lporiod, starting In                     IClmttn  Is lit devsopent Of pedaqicol utrIalis  tbO   I
I                lIastrution       Itbrough reedial instructlean         lef tko Dpuartts  linstrection  iblvdigl stcool-level wrgalaatin, lrNch 1111                           Ith  trailaig of tcr  triwes.                                   I
I               I                  I                                     lfor triury adi    Itraleleg of Pers"sel, iitruectlnal materialls                                                         I I 
I  I                                 .Scoadary Education.ldnvlopoont.                                            I                          : 
I                I                  I                                    I                     :                                                     :I 
11.4 Study on the ITo proocto ad strnghttn               SpKI&il COoaittfe   I-  evelepot aid lpltntatitm  Of tachert               I- Short aid  uiew   term: I- Epwrts: 3 aths 1t It-t7. CbjKetism  to asist the    I
lesteaslen of      Islti-grade teachil, especially   tudr the iatiority Itrausing programs (ti-uvic , as  tl s                     1t to 2 )aars, stttlo   lcmttrr  is Ile Lvlupeot of tea r trolting adi                     I
II lil-grade      lin lower gradn of priery avel.  lf the "t'eft ts  lpro-wevice trueinsgl;                                         In hRch i11                 upgradiln  preWs  hI  deveeipmt 04 Oductislu                   I
Iteachiol         I                                     Ifer Primry           I- bnelooent of pilot Idecatinal materials ad  I                                 material.; Icl c elimitiw  of schol Iel  orgr lizotu.          I
I                  I                                     lEucIatien ad Stall lsupprt to t.plestatltoe, puticulauly in rural  I                                 I
:   I              i                                     Tlraining             ares.i                                                                          I
I-----_-                                                    ----.-e.---                                                                                       ..... --------.--__   . _____ _   __ _____ __ _    
I                11. Frogra  far  lTo develop aid iploet a progras iSpecial Coamittn   I- Ikds aalysi. weeyp                                        lledi. *d la"  torsi    I- EIsprtas  24 auth  In 11  aid    7. Objectiue. to ausist I
I                lcontiauinm        for teacher ullradld. ad              iwAdr tkU  sthority I- kvelopost of s loo  ttrm pln fo  teacher            lperiui of 2-112 years,   Ithe Celttee in la) the coeds malysisl (hi tke
I                leducati. ad    acutiowinl education, paricularly laf the Task Force   ItrailnI.; ad qgradle ll cloding ltecher    l                 startie  in Rnuch I16   limvelumt of progrm.
Iteacher *pgradimlifor huic scheeoli   level             for the  onitwrini  Itraielig insitutlt s orgaluatlon, teachin I                                     I
I                  I                                    lsf the refore         luterials, astractwr training, aid   iterig    I
i                                                        p grogra             Iof training hy ltr I ctorc ao  Pedagogical           I                                                                                            n
I               I                  I                                     I                     ldvisrs.
I                I                  I                                                          I                                                     I                                                                                          I
In=" M"MUW



simSIOI  Of nolocco
UhS1  Iy  OF EtUCATI01
PROPOSES  STUIIES  UIISEII THE EIU CIATIDIN IREFUSE   10 6I5I
I    FIELD/      I      TaTLE       I              JECIllvES             I  IEE SIIILITY    I                         ACTIUI                         I       5EiElE O           I                    1E1 IUW  isisieE                           t
I     LEVEL      I                  I                                                                                                                I     IUIEIATION           I
1                11. 1I- To mcer   rapid ad                              ISpecial Cultt,   I-  ubnlqet d4 vocatioal   idaue proram  ad Ilhdiu VW iu  tuau    1- EIeprtsS *  oat   s lu  11t6. oljectiwus to mist                                I
I                lltrtfuttuig of ml  prmriate pu       cil choIce  of    loader the teutiity lctivitie. in c.llahratil  with conc rntd               lptried of 2-1/2 yer,   IUe Cilttein Is      the levlq.t of vocatlioal pidwc   I
I               Irocatioull        lubJect and withwerleutati.,          Isf the  yaWtets  lIlistriesf, trailqlg istit.ti.s, ad                      Ist.ti.l in Nurch 1916   iprogriasr l bI  tk  deloput of  Wediiq prWm  fr                 I
I                Iyuidace uervicmslprticularly in Grd"  5 and 9          1sf Plinuiegl         Irup reua tivas Iro thur idsitryl                     I                          lueatimal piduce tcslles.                                      I
I                                    i |  Primary, ad      I- Traininl ad upgrading of matianal  uiddaece   I
I                I                 1                                          tIbcailary Ed£uctin lisuellr  Ia tcelwaetlm  with ti ltimal            I                          I                                                              I
I   I              I                                    |                     Ilestitute of Rhool Fluime                            I                                                                                         I
INIlE            12.1 Stdy a       1- To reviue  the curicula of hoth  Iputcitl Comttn    1- Suvey oa curriculu, reslts  f nuiuatims,  I 1ais  turne  pfied of 2-1- Erartu  12 mths I. 1i116r7.  *jitties to assist the  I
IESUCAIIE        lrtitlatim        lfowit undary leel                    lider the uhtWrity lad npetatius of teachr  un   profdsn s eu               1112  ears, startln  in   ICoeuitti. is evalutiom  of curicul .                           I
I               Iht                Iatmsnvsity Startilel l eIs   i        o II i the Secrntaries  lacdeeic profile and stvdnt pierfarte dt           larch 1916                                                                                 I
I                ISauodary  nd    larder to facilitate tke trSiniti   16nenral for Hiker  lstarting Imil                                             I                          I1
I                11aivursity       lad to 11renv efficlency in           lEductin, aid          - ksipa nd tntinl  of reviud ctrricula               I
I               lcurritela         Ihiker udecati.                       IfPriwy ad            I                                                     I                          I
I               I                  I                                      Iecudu1rY EdocatiOR                             I                          I 
I                I                  I                                                                                                                                             I  I            I
I---------                               -----.---- -- - - - - - - - - - - - -.- -                                                                  -     -  
1               12.2 Stdy Oa the I- To devlop ad ipleinet                ISpecial Ceittet   I- laued e  reslts of the pre-feasihillty study   IlWii ad lug torsi    I- Emiprtes  12 mths In 1411-17. lbiectivei t  adst Ute   I
I                iplieeetatia    Icredit-our systee at hiiher            lIder the authrity Icrrutly cudKcted, duelopnt of a pl. fur   I1iriod of 2-1/2 years,   lComittu is lel the duiopst o  a trdit-huw qytue    I
Isf a credit-ug  leduatim  level                        1of the Secretary    liistitutioeaiiaieg the crdit-hur systee,               starting in hArch I16   II(hi the elahrati   of the ilupl.tatiu  progrm   kl the  I
Isy§tee           I                                      Seseril for Higer  ticisding falty-level wrisumatio,                       I                         ldevelemt of siturie  system.                                   I
I               I                  I                                     Ibulatien             liepmwiOlaltn ad emitarial prOCesses.                 I                          I- Stedy pra   with dleilar lustittims  12 mtbs is    I
I   I              I                                    I                     I                                                     I                          119547. blective  te perdIt seleted FKalty  _sa s to   1
lfulliarize with nisting sstm.                                 I
I               ,.,                                                                ..........I.._"..  s.........   ....  .....  ,....... ""^
a.



KNIllDOII OF IIOROCCO
I NISTRY  OF EDUCATI0 N
PROPOSED  STUDIES  UNDER  THlE EDUCATI01N REFORII P ROl5l1
I    FIELD/      I       TITLE       I             OUECTIVES                 I  IE?OSIIILITY    I                           ACTIONS                         I       SELS  OF            I                      TiEIICIL ASSISTAM                           I
I     LEVEL      I                   I                                                              I                                                       I     INPLEIOTATIO          I                                                                  I
1                12.3 Study on       ITo define nan fwr the provislsn  ISpecial Cmuitt.    I- Sevlopast of stand u                w aoes  or equipent  id ISlhrt cd e die tuas    I                                                                        I
I                 Mdutcational       lef  ducetsel lateriel,                 luadrt th  athority l scatliel uterlils In lhbririn  aid                      l;eiod of I to 2 yea n                                                                          I
I                leteriell           Iparticularly for libruies ar    d n    l   the bparteet   llaor ltwinj                                                latutin in St ptaer    I                                                                       I
I                I                   Ilaherateris                            lof Hihkr Educatim  I- Iaploeuntatlon of an ilventory system.                 I1l1i                        I                                                                  I
I                I                   I                                       lad kintific          I                                                                     I                                              I
I                I                   I                                       IRnetuch               I                                                       I                           I                                                                 I
I .              I                   I                                       I                                                  I                                         I                                              I   . 
1                12.4 Study no       ITo develop shot trainIn  preprays 1Specill Coeuitte    I-   pleantetias  of occueAtiWel malysil for                   INWdim  ad lag toras        I                                                                  I
I                Idlv,rsification  lie respmes to Ieor eukht neds  loader the eatwrity lipecllizii  proflenim    requiring prefeslalal    Iperiod of 3 y s,                            I                                                                  I
I                1sf mivarsity       I                                       lot the Ipbrtat   Itrinitgl                                                    ltuting in narch IM         I                                                                  I
I                Iproirus            I                                       lef Hi5her Education I- hkvlopmt of trainin  prreas, incldlag                 I                           I
I                I                   I                                       lead Scletific         lorgeaitational ad pedlaoical aspcts, aWd               I                           I
I                I                   I                                       le terch               Irequire  rn srcpl                                      I                           I                                                                  :-
III                          I                                                    1- Ipltceuntctien of the  ort trcelaag progr .I II
--   ----- I----------I --- ------------------- ------------ ---                                                                                                          -- I------- 
I                  I                                       I _I| ..   .  _   |  _   __   _   _  t   _   _ _   __  I   _ _ _ _   ___   _   ___________   I              ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  l__                                           I
11. AANIISTRA- I                     I                                       i                      I
ITIYE ASFEC1S   I                    I                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
IPRINI AIM    13.1 Study on           Revise  auo-tchallg staff              1Special COittee   I- In line with the recosedetints of the Special 1- Nediu  torai period of I                                                                               I
ISEC 0At         lsteff functions  Idecriptloms of functioms ad             eider the euthwrity IlStdy on Non-Tueching Staff, reulime  of the              12-1/2 vaw  s  atti  ias I                                                                     I
ILEVELS          lin scMdery         Itnhis,  ores of ellocatlos nd          lof the Secretury    Ifufinitlois of rolet ud rspoasiiltlos, their  11e1rch It                             II
I                Ischoolial          lwe anlzatln at the school level,  ICnwra. fwr friwy Itesks, ad the awn of  llecatlinl                                               I:
I                  la tel a provincial ad centrel  lead Scmdery lIvelil- Prearati,a of revised lel  tanhe related to   I                                             I
I                     nIlvelS, in order to ratbealize      I                      Ithe statns of aw-techlis  staffi                       I                           I                                                                  I
II                  sIchool uae    aset ad to aue orw    I                        I-   vlopnent nad iapltatiet    of treieiag             I                           I                                                                  I
II                     {lifficietly nen-ttchifg staff.    I                        prograM  for school adeltistratwe and sprt    I
I                I                   lEvaluate propecta  or w aicreesiag   I                        lstaff.                                                                                                                                                I
I                  lsecondary school si.                   I                      I                                                                                                                                                      I
I---                                   -     -    ------------__  ----__...-.....__...__-                                                                         __--  -
13.2 Study on      IStraghtt nIE's cwuiteriag aed           fopcil CmHitta    I- kveloee nt  Jd ipleettlen of eaitorleg                   Ifort lad tdies tare,   I                                                                      I
I                 private schoollnalsq ervlsln factueas to privAte    lader tke aathority land s rwviviso  systets ad prKcedrn, Incladlig  lpriod of I to 2 years,  I
I       I                            lIchools. Ezuin  sahaldy costt  of  l1f the Scretury    lthe  rlaiztiueal espets aid the rtqired                      littrtg la Isech 1IM         I
II                 lucentives to prote  gre ater             "oral for Primary Irterctsi                                                  I                           II
lprivete stctor puticipatio,.          land Secdenny Ieuell- buinae skidy cets of licentivs to prmete   I
I                                      I                      Ipreher private   ctor puticipatin.                     I                           I



11113DM011 OF MIOROCCO
MINIISTRY  OF EIUCATI0 N
PROPOSED  STUDIES  UINDER THIE EDUCAT1I0N  IEFORM  PRlOSA6M
I   FIELD/      I       TITLE      I             ONECTIVES               I  IESOSISILITY   I                          ACTIIOS                                SENU.E Of          I                     IEMUICHL ASSISTI                          I
I     LEVEL                         I                                    I                                                                           I     IPLEENT^ATIM         I
1               I1                                    I                                                                   I                                                     I                                                               I
IC. PHYICAL    I                    I                                    I                      I                                                    I                          I I
ASPECTS         I                  I                                     I                     I
I                I                 I                                     I                      I                                                    I                          .                                                               I
lPlIMW  iAN     15.1 Study me      IIU lime Nith the Special Stuy on   Special Couitte    1- Fiaeliation of the joint revien  of the Special 1- Shet  1d aedis tirt  I 1
ISECUIDAY        ltcestruttlom      IConstructios Costs for primary    Ider tkh authrity Iltdyl                                                     lperiod of I to 2 years,  i
ILEVELS          csIts for         ISchools, to wipe costrKct lo1  the Tast Force   I- Anlysis of seondary schols cueutructlon                       IstaUtig is  arch  Ii 
I                oecoildry ochoolslcosts fr seonday schools ad to Ifer tie  woitorrlng   costs, partilelrly for lowr scedary schools;  I                                        I
I               i                  Ilwleet rcee  dletins of the   Id the reform               I- lepletatton of reuesdatlous.                       I                          I
I               I                  IStedy related to the reductim  of  Iproea                  I                                                     i                          I 
I               I                   cests ad the stre.litiag of          I                     I                                                     I                          II
I               I                   school coestrectim  process.         I                     I                                                     I                          I
I               I                  I                                                                                                                 I                                                                                             I
I               iS.2 Study o       ITo denlelo  a  riodic ealtmuence   Secial C   eitte    1- hvelopeent n  . cistemcc  prograum  including 1- Mediw  terms period of 1- Eoperts: 3 mths l  1M. EeJtive: to assist ti Ie
I               Ielatmnct         lprogpra fr edcatioal facilities loader te authority lIrgiiitlton. at the provincial aed at the shool  12-112 years, startlg in  last Force to () the develoeut of the mitmace                               I
I               iprgru             let all levell.                       bef the Tast Force   levels;                                                IArch  IM                  lprogral (hI  the develepet of te eperlmtl Piaes.               I
I               I                  I                                      ioer th  sonitorin   1- Creation of operimtmtl maltmteae uelts;                                       I                                                               I
I               I                  I                                     le the reform         I- Evileatin of rsults and attaion of tite            I                          I                                                               1
I               I                  I                                     irgras                lmulnteeawces urvicn  to other regis.                 I                          iI
I               I                                                        I                     I                                                     I                          I                                                               I
IW'
8.I



KIPIONOF NOVA=O
NINISTEYli Or COUCTION
OUANIZATINAL  CIAN
*~~~~~                               . ' CRl~TlU 
NINIGYRN Of 90WATIONIONM  NINYFI
alMlIAL  IUUTARIUnNL  OOPMT T                                            SSIlIFI KUUI
m   RIK   AND                               N  MS-    ILI I                               UGAT
THC ftrw             UA  AS  IrAsA                          DASIAI
II BlAt I
O=PASMT  iW                                                       |  ZUI           DVI ON           I       d
STAFF  -AININ                       -   -   -   -   -  -1 'AI
*I w_ 0S                                                           S       |  @
§ -  "-c}         r"P- -   l r- Ot^"= w  ,    ffi "iaN                      o               or Hli



K I NOONR Of eiOROCCo
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
GENERAL SECRETARIAT FOR PRINARY AND SECONDARY LEVELS
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
MINISTER OF EDUCATION]
SECRETARY GENERAL FOR
PRiNARY AND SECONDARY LEVELS
DEPARTMENT OF              DEPARTNENT OF 1             DEPARTMENT CF              DEPRTMENT CF
SCHOOL PLANINS              ADNINISTRATION |              PERSONNEL                STArr TRAINIA S
EDUCATION STATISTICS       BUOGET                      PRIMARY LEVEL PERSONNEL    PRIMARY LEVEL STAFF
-GUIDANCE SERVICES          SOCIAL AFFAIRS              SEcoNDAIY LEVEL PERSONNEL  SEOUAROY LEVEL STAFF
- EXTERNAL CwOPRAT ION     NAINTENANCE                 MON-TEACH INe STArr         UPSRADINS PUOA'S
SCHOOL CONTMUCT ION        LEGAL SERVICEs              ACOOUNTING                 RADIO AND TELEVISION
L SCHOOL nAPPING                                        DISCIPLINE AND APPEALS      EXTENSION SERVICES
SPECIAL STUDIES AND                                                               SuPPowr TO TEmarn
PLAIINS                                                                         TRAImIN INSTITUTES
DEPARTMENT OF              DEPARTMENT oF               DEPARTMENT OF              DEPARTMENT OF
PU SHAR EDUCATION         SECoNDARY EDUCATOTN         TECHNICAL EOUCATION         ISLAMIC EDUCATION
CCUPRICULUNs NETHOOBS AND    CURRICuLUM  EDuCATIONAL    TECHNICAL EDUCATION        SIECONDAY LEVEL PROOLMA
TEXT111001K(S              NATRALS                     PROGRAMS
SCHOOL NANENT             .PRIVATE SCHOOLII1                                      .POST-SECONDARY LEVEL
SUPERVISION AND  1bKMS"    VOOCATIONAL EDUCATION       PROSRAMS
PEDAbOIOCAL SUPPORT       iSwim. ANAGEMEmTe
P-E-SCHOOL PROGRAMS       -ExAT;oB                    -SPECIAL STUDiES
EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES                                  A E
PHYSICAL EOUCATION         COMPUTINS SERVCES
_~~~~~~~~~~~N SPORTS



KINGDOM OF NOROCC
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
DEPARTMENT OF SCHOOL PLANNING FOR PRI^ARY AND SECONDARY LEVELS
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
IDEPART MT OFI
I SCHOOL PLANNINSG
|       SECRETARI                                              TE____
ISUPPORT SERVICIES|
SCHOOL NAPPING   SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION    STATISTICS |       SCHOOL GUIDARCE    SPECIAL STUDIES         EXTERNAL
DIVISION        AND EMJIPNENT          DIVISION      :      DIVISION          AND PLANNINS       COOPERATION
DI V I_SION                                                 DIVISION            DIVISION.     CO
PRIMARY LEVEL      SCHOOL              PRIMARY LEVEL        VOCATIONAL          NATIONAL AND       INTERMATIONAL AND
SCHOOL NAP         CONSTRUCTION        STATISTICS           GUIDANCE            REGIONAL PLAIUINm  REGIONAL
OGAIZATIONS
SECONDARY LEVEL    EUIPHENT            SECONDARY LEVEL   :  VOCATIONAL          EVALUATION         CULTURAL AND
SCHOOL RAP         PROCUIJENET         STATISTICS           INFORNATION                            TECHNICAL
RELATIONS
TEACHER TRAINING                                                                ARCHIVES
INSTITUTIONS
SCHOOL NtAP
REGIONAL INSPECTORATE                                               '
SERVICES                 .
(14 INSPECTORS)    I                                             I
,                                          o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
____    ___             _.H~
PROVINCIAL SCHOOL PLANNING UNITS                                           t i
FF        (45 PROVINCES)



- 79 -
Annex E
Page 1 of 30
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SCHOOL PLANNING AND SCHOOL MAPPING



-     80-                  AnnexE
Page 2 of 30
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
INTRODUCTION
Scope of the Annex
Outline of the Annex
I.  STRUCTURE, ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
A. Central Level Services
Education Statistics Division
Special Studies and Planning Division
School Mapping Division
School Construction and Equipment Division
School Guidance Services Division
External Cooperation Division
B. The School Planning Services in the Provincial
Delegations
C. The Inspectorate Services
II. THE PLANNING PROCESS
A. Evaluation of Results
B. Setting the Objectives
The National Comission for Education:
The Vertical/Sectoral Approach
The Regional Committees:
The Horizontal/Cross-Sectoral Approach
C. Setting the Targets for School Planning
Enrollment Projections
School Construction Program
Staffing Requirements
Budget Forecasts
D. Finalizing the Plan



- 81 -
Annex E
Page 3 of 30
Table of Contents (Continued)
III. THE PROGRAMMING PROCESS
THE SCHOOL PLANNING CYCLE AT THE PROVINCIAL LEVEL
A. The Preparation of the Staff and
Facilities Plan for the New School Year
Registration of New Intakes
The Evolution of Student Cohorts
The Orientation of Students
B. The Census
Urban and Rural Enrollments
Internal Efficiency Rates
Available Physical Facilities
Staff
C. The School Map
The Investment Budget and the Construction Program
School Location and Size
Staffing Needs and Use of Physical Facilities
THE SCHOOL PLANNING AT THE CENTRAL LEVEL
Setting Priorities
Finalizing the School Construction Program
IV.  THE MONITORING PROCESS
School Mapping Adjustments
School Construction Program Monitoring
ANNEXES
Table 1: Population of Morocco by Category, 1982
Table 2:  Net Enrollment Ration for Age 7 in 1981/82
Table 3:  Gross Enrollment Ratio for Age Group 5-19
by Sex and Origin in 1982
CHARTS
Chart 1:  Organizational Chart of the Department of School
Planning for Primary and Secondary Education
Chart 2: Organizational Chart of MOE Provincial Delegations
Chart 3:  Annual Program of Activities for School Planning Units
at the Provincial Level



-82-                     Annex E
Page 4 of 30
INTRODUCTION
1.       Scope of  the Annex.   Expansion of primary and lower secondary
schooling  is one of  the key objectives  in the education sector reform
program in Morocco. In view of a projected average increase of 2,600 primary
level classrooms per year, a large proportion of those in rural areas, one
critical aspect of the reform concerns the Ministry of Education's (MOE)
capacity:  (a) to determine schooling needs and required school facilities
as well as staffing needs, teacher training and assignment, in line with the
objectives of the reform program; (b) to establish a program of construction
and a plan for opening/operation of these facilities; (c) to monitor
implementation of the school construction program and school operation plan;
and (d) to evaluate and, if required, to take corrective measures on results
achieved in expanding school enrollments, particularly in rural areas and
female students. This annex describes current MOE capacities and processes
for carrying out these tasks. Annex G describes further the school
construction  process,  together  with  the  structure,  organization  and
management of administrative units involved.
2.       Outline of the Annex.  This annex describes the process of school
planning and school mapping currently used in the MOE in Morocco. The first
section describes the structure, organization and functions of the MOE
Directorate of School Planning for Primary and Secondary Levels (DSP) in the
areas of school planning and school mapping. The following sections describe
the processes of planning, programming and monitoring of school facilities,
and the roles and responsabilities of administrative units involved in those
processes.  The  second,  third  and  fourth  sections  present  detailed
descriptions of the different activities involved in setting plan objectives
and targets, programming school construction and utilization of facilities,
and monitoring of the school construction and school mapping programs.



- 83 -                   Annex E
Page 5 of 30
I. STRUCTURE. ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
1.01     Under  the authority  of  the Secretary  General  for  Primary  and
Secondary Education (see Annex E-Ministry of Education Organizational
Chart), the Department 3f School Planning for Primary and Secondary
Education (DSP) is respons.ble for planning, coordination and control of the
following functions at the central level:
(a) production of educational statistics;
(b) enrollment projections;
(c) school construction;
(d) school mapping;
(e) external relations; and
(f) special studies.
The Department staff comprises a total of 140 posts, of which 21 managers
including  the  Director  General,  Division Chiefs  and Section Heads,  45
technicians,  and  74  operational  and  support  staff  (see  Chart  1-
Organizational Chart of the Department of School Planning or Primary and
Secondary Education).  In addition, the Department has responsability  for
supervision and control  of 45 regional school planning units under the
authority of the Provincial Delegate of the Ministry of Education ('3) (see
Chart 2-Organizational Chart of NOE Provincial Delegations).
A. The Central Level Services
1.02     The  DSP  comprises  six Divisions:  Education  Statistics,  Special
Studies and Planning, School Mapping, School Construction and Equipment,
School Guidance, and External Cooperation.
Education Statistics Division
1.03     The Education Statistics Division prepares and updates educational
statistics on an annual basis for both primary and secondary levels. Data on
enrollments, teaching and non-teaching staff, physical facilities and
services provided are collected at the beginning of the school year
(November and December)  for the preparation of the statistical yearbook
issued in May/June of the following year. Enrollment and staffing
questionnaires  are  designed  at  the  central  level,  distributed  at  the
provincial level, completed by school administrators, and then analyzed and
aggregated at the provincial and central levels (see Document 1 for an
example of questionnaire used for data collection). Data on enrollments are
updated in June in view of the preparation of the next academic year (see
paras. 3.8 and 3.9).



- 84 -                     Annex E
Page 6 of 30
1.04     Since 1982, planning has been computerized at the central level.
Although equipment is limited (one micro-computer with a total capacity of
64K RhM memory), the Statistics Division is able to produce summary tables
by provinces and regions, and to provide support for education planning
applications (enrollment projections and budget forecasts). It is important
to note that the Division initiated in mid-1984 a computer-based model for
education planning in the context of the discussions of the proposed
education reform loan. In collaboration with the Divisions of Special
Studies and Planning, and School Mapping, the Education Statistics Division
designed and produced a comprehensive projection model for primary and
secondary education. Division staff are qualified in education planning and
statistics, and competent in the use of computers.
Special Studies and Planning Division
1.05     The Special Studies and Planning Division comprises three sections:
central and regional planning, research, and archives. The Division is
responsible for providing technical and administrative support to the
preparation of the Plan for primary and secondary education. The Division
provides essentially two kinds of information: ex-post evaluation of the
activities undertaken under the current or previous plan, and technical
support for setting the objectives and targets under the next plan. The
Division then collects, analyzes feasible options, and proposes specific
educational objectives and ressources required to attain these objectives.
In addition, the Division conducts research on ad hoc topics and is
consulted on educational issues. Finally, the Division is responsible for
establishing and maintaining the educational archives of the MOE.
1.06     With 12 staff members including secretarial and support staff, tne
Division's scope for providing technical support and pertaining research is
limited to ad hoc priority subjects upon request. Moreover, offices are
located outside the MOE main complex, in Rabat, and current budgets do not
permit extensive work in the field, thus limiting research capacity.
However, competent senior staff-have extensive experience and knowledge of
the education system. This is reflected in the advisory role that the
Division has been invited to play during plan reviews and preparation, as
well as during the discussions that led to the proposed education reform. In
view of the need for coordination and monitoring of the proposed reform, the
MNE and t'e Bank have agreed on the establishment of a task force for the
monitor5-4g of activities related to the reform. In that context, the Special
Studies and Planning Division would play a key role in monitoring the
implementation of reform measures and in coordinating the implementation of
the reform program by sister divisions and the Departments of Primary and
Secondary Education.



- 85 -                     Annex E
Page 7 of 30
School Napping Division
1.07     The School Napping Division is responsible, at the Central level,
for coordinating and monitoring the school location planning at primary and
secondary levels, and at teacher training institutions. The current process
of school mapping comprises three phases. First, during the planning stage,
the School Mapping Division sets operational targets for the number, type
and geographic distribution of schools at each level. These targets azo set
in conformity with the quantitative enrollment objectives specified in the
Plan and the provisions in the plan investment program for new school
facilities (paras. 2.5 et seq.). Second, during the programming stage, the
School Mapping Division collects from the MOE provincial delegations and
aggregates, on a yearly basis, the program of construction and, if required,
the reallocation of school facilities between provinces and/or levels
(paras. 3.28 et seq.). It is important to note that programs of construction
are established at first by the MOE provincial delegations, to meet the
operational targets set out during the planning phase and the projected
physical facilities requirements for the coming academic year. The role of
the School Mapping Division at the central level is then to aggregate these
programs, and to reconcile regional/provincial facilities requests with the
aggregate resources available for a given year. Finally, during the third
phase, the School Mapping Division monitors the progress of implementation
of the school construction programs. As mentioned earlier, the provincial
delegations are responsible for the preparation and the monitoring of their
respective school construction programs) (paras. 4.2 to 4.7).
1.08     Located in the MOE main  complex  in Rabat,  the School Mapping
Division is staffed with competent and experienced staff who, in general,
have had experience in the planning services at the provincial level.
Through inspectorate services at the regional and provincial levels (para.
1.17), ad-quate and efficient support is provided to provincial delegations'
staff (p. -a. 1.17). However, in view of the proposed expansion of primary
level enrollments foreseen in the education reform program, attention needs
to be given to monitoring of the school mapping at the central level.
Although provincial delegations are well established and their performance
is satisfactory, central services currently lack basic information (such as
school maps and data on catchment areas for primary schcols in rural areas)
produced and available at the provincial level. During Phase I of reform
implementation, the School Mapping Division will prepare a national school
map and develop monitoring  systems  to evaluate  progress  in educational
services to rural remote areas, and to raising school attendance by girls
(para. 3.20).
School Construction and Equipment Division
1.09     The   structure,   organization  and   functions   of   the   School
Consctruction and Equipment Division are described in Annex G. In the area
of school planning and school mapping, this Division is responsible for
monitoring implementation of the schcol construction program in its
technical, physical and financial aspects. At the provincial level, school
planning  services  produce  a  status  report  on  a  semi-annual  basis



Annex E
- 86 -                      Page 8 of 30
(December/January and June) in order to plan use of physical facilities and
to allocate available and planned resources to projected and actual
enrollments (para. 4.6). The flow of budgetary information on physical
implementation is imperfect. The units responsible for budget comhitments
and payments to contractors are under the authority of the provincial
Governors and the Ministry of Finance's provincial delegations; this
information is not communicated on a regular basis to the education services
at the provincial and/or central levels. The flow of such information is to
be improved under the reform program through establishment of task forces in
the ministries concerned. Under the authority of the Interministerial
Steering Committee for the Reform, these task forces are to compile and
communicate this information to the School Construction Division.
School Guidance Services Division
1.10     The   School   Guidance   Services   Division  is  responsible  for
coordinating school guidance and vocational information services at the
central  lev-.  Since  1982,  the National  Institute  for School  Planners
(Centre National de Formation des Conseillers en Planification), located in
Rabat offers a specialization in school guidance and vocational information.
The two-year program (including a one-year specialization) has been
developed by NISP in response to the need for training vocational guidance
consellors. Graduates of this program, like graduates in the conventional
school planning program, are assigned to provincial delegations as guidance
counsellors. It is envisioned by MOE that, with their growing number (the
first group of 60 students, of which 30 were enrclled in guidance
counselling, graduated in 1984), one counsellor would be appointed in each
delegation, thereafter each city, and finally each secondary school. In view
of the foreseen expansion of basic schooling and vocational training for
those students who will not enter upper secondary and post-secondary levels,
there is clearly a need to develop guidance services. More specifically,
these services would concentrate on information on vocational training and
technical education opportunities and careers, and on skills and aptitudes
testing in relation to training programs and jobs. Particular attention
needs to be given to the production of information/guidance materials, as
well as to information of students and their parents. Under the reform
program the DSP would conduct a study on the extension of guidance
counselling services including the design and operation of guidance-related
activities at Grade 5 and at Grade 9 (see Annex D, Proposed Studies Under
the Reform Program, item 1.6).
External Cooperation Division
1.11     The External Cooperation Division is responsible for liaising with
multilateral, regional and bilateral organizations on cultural and technical
matters on behalf of the MOE. Since this division has established and
maintains contacts with Ministries of Education and organizations involved
in the development and promotion of education and culture, its support is
important in the context of the short term familiarization programs
envisioned in the studies to be canducted (see Annex D, Proposed Studies



- 87 -                      Annex E
Page 9 of 30
under the Reform Program). In view of the importance of these prograns (117
man-months of experts and 108 man-months for study programs), the Division
Chief be a full member of the MOE Task Force responsible for monitoring the
reform program, and that the Division would be responsible to liaise with
external agencies, to plan visits, and to monitor activities associated with
these agencies.
B. The School Planning Services in the Provincial Delegations
1.12     In  each  of  the  45  provinces  in Morocco,  the MOE   ProvinAial
Delegate is nominated by the Minister of Education to manage and supervise
the administrative and support staff in the education sector at the
provincial level. Under the authority of the Governor, and in liaison with
the Secretary General for Primary and Secondary Levels and the MOE
Directorates, the MOE Provincial Delegate heads four units: (i) planning and
school  mapping;  (ii) educational matters;  (iii) administration; and (iv)
inspection. Chart 2 presents the detailed organizational chart of MOE
provincial delegation.
1.13     The school planning and school mapping unit (referred to as the
school planning unit, Service de la planification) generally comprises five
sub-units ("bureaux"): (i) school mapping for primary and (ii) secondary
levels; (iii) education statistics; (iv) school construction; and (v) school
guidance services. Their functions are similar to those described in the
first part of this chapter (paras. 1.2 to 1.11) for the corres-ponding
divisions, and their specific roles and responsabilities are described in
greater detail in Chapter 3, along with the description of the school
planning cycle at the provincial level.
1.14     The unit generally comprises between 10 and 12 staff, among which
the Read of the unit, an assistant, one technician for each office, and
support staff. Except for the staff in charge of the school construction
unit, almost all technicians are graduates of NISP or have  completed a
training program in school planning. As mentioned in para. 1.10, NISP
started in 1982 a specialized program in school guidance and vocational
training in addition to the program in school planning offered since the
opening of the institution in 1976.  Prior to 1976, school planners were
trained in international training institutes in foreign countries.
1.15     The  mission  visited  two  provincial  delegations  (Meknes  and
Klemisset) and met with the MOE Provincial Delegate, school planning unit
staff, and in Meknes, with the Inspector for School Planning. The mission
findings are that competent staff have full knowledge of the systems,
methods and procedures promoted by the DSP and used in school planning and
school mapping. Moreover, managerial staff are recruited among experienced
school  planners, with broad expertise and knowledge of their comiunity.
There are obviously two important contributing factors. First, the unit has
direct and conrtant links with other units in the MOE provincial delegation,
as well as with other administrative units (Ministry of Public Works'
delegations, urban pianning committees,  local autLarities,  etc.). Second,
the staff maintain regular contact and visit schools in the context of the



- 88 -                     Annex E
Page 10 of 30
preparation of a new school year, the LePous, the preparation of the school
map, the registration of students, and the sites of new schools construction
(see Chapters 3 and 4 for detailed description of programming and monitoring
activities).
C. The Iaspectorate Services
1.16     As for teaching and curriculum, the school planning activities are
reviewed and evaluated by a national group of Inspectors (Inspecteurs de la
planification)  (see  Chart  2 -  Organizational  Chart of MOE  Provincial
Delegation). Assigned on a regional basis, each of the 14 inspectors is
responsible for supervising 3 or 4 provincial delegations' school planning
units. Nominated by the Minister of Education upon recommendation of the
Director of DSP, the inspector evaluates the performance of the staff and
the conformity of their work to existing procedures, provides technical
advises, and assists in solving matters between two or more provincial
delegations. Their major role consists in providing professional and
technical support to the school planners, and in monitoring quality control.
1.17     In view  of  the proposed refcrm program,  their contribution  is
particularly important in the planning and monitoring processes of the
school planning and school mapping functions. Since operations are largely
decentralized at the provincial level, the inspectors will be associated
closely to the implementation of the reform objectives, more specifically to
expansion of rural and female enrollments, and their implication on the
school mapping and school construction program at the provincial level.



- 89 -                     Annex E
Page 11 of 30
II. THE PLANNING PROCESS
2.01     The school planning process is part of and closely linked to the
national planning process in Morocco. The strategy, policies and targets
related to the education sector and set in the Development Plan serve as the
ground for long term school planning. This chapter describes the four major
phases of that process: (a) the evaluation of results; (b) the definition of
objectives;  Cc)  the  determination  of  specific  targets;  and  (d)  the
finalixation of the plan.
A. Evaluation of Results
2.02     The planning cycle starts with the evaluation of results achieved
during the current plan. The quantitative aspects of the evaluation
originate from the education statistics produced on a yearly basis. The
qualitative aspects take their source from special studies carried under the
authority of the MOE and/or the Ministry of Planning (MOP). The MOP is
responsible for assembling and producing a draft evaluation of results
achieved in the current plan.
2.03     As for quantitative aspects of the evaluation, the central issues
of the previous plans focussed -n the expansion of the formal education
system at all levels of schooling. Gross enrollment ratios at primary and
secondary  levels,  expansion  of  primary  schooling  in  rural  areas,
moroccanization of the teaching staff in parallel with an expansion of
teacher training facilities, and expansion and diversification of higher
education were among the central themes of quantitative evaluation.
2.04     Qualitative aspects have received less attention than quantitative
aspects in both coverage and analysis. The previous plans barely mention
overcrowding of physical facilities at specific levels of education and
weaknesses of the vocational training system. In the perspective of the
proposed reform program, it is envisioned that the next plan will provide a
succinct analysis of strengths and weaknesses of the education system, and a
brief analysis of issues ir. the education sector in Morocco. References to
the Colloque d'Ifrane in 1980, to the Education Sector Survey in 1983, and
to the proposed education sector reform program could serve as a basis for
that analysis.
B. Setting the Obiectives
2.05     In the process of plan preparation, the objectives are set through
two approaches. The first approach, a vertical/sectoral one, involves
consultati-on   of   the  sectoral   ministries   and   their  administrative
constituencies. The second approach, an horizontal/cross-sectoral one,
involves consultation of the regional and/or provincial authorities (the
governorate in each province and the regional constituencies). The process
is initiated with the publication by the Government of two broad orientation
notes, one national and one regional, indicating macro-economic targets and
regional development priorities. Then, the Ministry of Plan (MOP) prepares
specific sectoral notes for transmission both to the ministry responsible
for each sector, and to the regional/provincial consultative committees.



-.90 -                     Annex E
Page 12 of 30
2.06    The  National  Commission  for  Education:  The  Vertical/Sectoral
Approach. In line with the sectoral note prepared by the MOP, the Minister
of Education elaborates the major policies and goals for the next plan
period and chairs the National Committee for Education (Commission Nationale
de 1'Education) responsible for coordination and overview of specialized
committees   (Sous-Commissions   for   each   level   of   education   and/or
administrative function such as budget, personnel, staff training, research,
etc.). Essentially, these specialized committees at the central level
translate the policies and goals into operational targets and plans (see
para. 2.9 and as. on setting the targets for school planning).
2.07    The Regional Committees: The Horizontal/Cross  Sectoral Approach.
The Consultative Regional Assemblies, under the chairmanship of the
Governors of the provinces (who are themselves nominated by the King and
under the authority of the Ministry of Interior), are established in each of
the 9 regions in Morocco. As for the national/sectoral commissions, the
Consultative Regional Assemblies translate the proposed orientations into
regional  operational  targets  and  plans.  Critical  aspects  of  their
contribution are the integration of school planning in housing, urban and
land development plans, the determination of provincial and local priorities
in terms of school facilities, and finally the integration of education
priorities to other social sectors, manpower and industrial priorities. The
Governor is assisted by the MOE Provincial Delegate and technical support is
provided by MOE staff at the provincial and regional levels.
2.08     The role of the Planning Units at the provincial level (under the
authority of the MOE Provincial Delegate and in close collaboration with the
DSP at the central level) is critical in that it provides (i) an account of
existing resources (physical facilities, staff, tea:-hing materials, plamned
facilities); (ii) expertise to study the feasibility of proposed plans;
(iii) technical support in the preparation of detailed plans and/or programs
of activities; (iv) advice on managerial and administrative aspects of the
implementation of the plan. Since the planning services collaborate on a
regular basis with all services at both the central and provincial levels,
and since they have a comprehensive view encompassing the levels of
education and the functional units, their contribution has had a major
impact on the planning process.
C. Setting the Targets for School Planning
2.09    There are four sets of targets elaborated for the proposed Plan.
These are the enrollment projections, the school construction program, the
staffing requirements, and the budget forecasts.
2.10     Enrollment  Projections.   Enrollments are projected by level and
type of education/training. In the previous plans, the projection was made
according  to  historical  trends,  applying  internal  efficiency  rates
(promotion, repetition, and drop-out) to targeted intakes at the beginning
of each cycle. Targets for gross enrollment ratios for primary education
were set in relation to the existing school-age population and demographic
projections, with the objective of full enrollment by the end of the
century. The major thrust of planning has been to expand the capacity of
the education system at all levels. This had an important impact in staffing
and school construction programs.



- 91 -                     Annex E
Page 13 of 30
2.11     School Construction Program.  The sbchool construction program aimed
at expanding school capacity at all levels of education. Derived from the
needs to offer educational services to a groving population in urban areas
and to give access to educational services to dispersed population in rural
areas, the program aimed at providing facilities where schooling needs were
expressed by the population, and in complementing lower levels of schooling
already offered in the area. The targets have been determined both at the
central and regional levels on the basis of the available investment budget
and the regional development priorities.
2.12     Staffing Requirements.  Major investments  took place  during  the
last two decades in teacher training facilities to fill the demand for
additional posts necessitated by a rapid enrollment expansion. Moreover,
Morocco has embarked during the last decade on an ambitious program of
morocconization of the teaching force. This required the recruitment of more
than 10,000 teachers per year at primary and secondary levels. The teacher
training  system   currently   comprises   three   categories   of   programs
corresponding to the required qualification profile for teachers at primary,
lower and upper secondary levels. Although a major expansion of training
capacity was undertaken during the last decade, recent decisions under the
reform program to reintroduce shorter duration programs after university
graduation, and to increase teacher workload have reduced the demand for
pre-service  training.   However,  in the  context  of  the  reform  program,
in-service training and upgrading programs for teachers at all levels are to
be introduced in existing teacher training institutions.
2.13     Budget Forecasts.  Budget forecasts in previous plans have been
limited  to  investment  requirements.   Although  the  Plan  provides  an
indicative aggregated figure of recurrent costs for existing public
institutions and governmental agencies, the budgetary impact of the proposed
investment programs is presented for physical aspects only, thus excluding
incremental recurrent expenditures related to staff training, administrative
functions and support services required for new investments. Details of
investment budget are presented by project and for each year of the proposed
plan.
C. Finalizing the Plan
2.14     Proposals are then finalized by MOE for the education sector, and
by Consultative Regional Assemblies for each region, discussed with the MOP,
submitted to the Government before their final apporval by the Parliament.



- 92 -                   Annez E
-92 -                      Page 14 of 30
III. THE PROGRAMMING PROCESS
3.01     In the programming process, MOE school planning and school mapping
services translate the objectives set by the Plan into annual action plans
in budgetary and operational terms. The programming process is closely
linked to in the preparation of the annual budget voted by the Parliament,
for both investment and recurrent expenditures in a given fiscal year.
Moreover, the programming process is linked to the operation of the schools
in determining, at the local and provincial levels, the availability and
allocation  of  resources.  This  section describes  programming operations,
first at the provincial level and then at the central level, for the
preparation of the staff and facilities plan for the new school year, the
school mapping and the school construction program, and, finally, the budget
proposal. Chart 3 illustrates the annual progra of activities for school
planning units at the provincial level.
The School Planning Cycle at the Provincial Level
A. The Preparation of the Staff and Facilities Plan for the New School Year
3.02     The programming cycle starts with the preparation of the staff and
facilities plan for the new school year, taking place in September and
October. At the provincial level, the School Planning Units assist School
Directors (at primary and secondary levels) in: (a) determining class
composition and size; (b) setting weekly schedules for schools where
double-shift, re-assignment or rental of facilities might be required on a
temporary basis; and (c) providing additional facilities where required.
3.03     The preparation of a new school year represents a finalization of
preliminary work undertaken between March and July, when orientation of
pupils occurs, and where examination results are compiled.   The following
three elements are the key variables for progranming: (i) the number and
origin of new intakes in the first grade; (ii) the evolution of student
cohorts in terms of promoted, repeaters or drop-out students; and (iii) the
orientation of students at the end of primasy cycle (between general
academic and vocational training streams) and lower secondary cycle (between
general academic, vocational training and technical education streams).
3.04     Registration of New  Intakes.   New intakes  in  first  grade  are
determined through the number of advanced registrations for seven-year olds.
Between March and June, the School Planning Units set up, supervise and
coordinate actions for advanced registration by parents of their children.
3.05     The  first operation  takes place at  the school  level: children
attending school are asked to provide certificates of civil status (livret
d'etat civil) for their younger brothers and sisters; this information is
compiled by teachers and school directors in each existing school. For those
children aged six or seven, parents are invited to register them for the
next academic year. For all remaining children, the school planning units
use these data to update the school map for primary schools by comparing
these actual figures with population projections by age group, sex and
localities and/or recruitment areas for existing and projected schools (see
para. 3.28 et. sq. describing the process of school mapping).



- 93 _Annex E
Page 15 of 30
3.06     The second operation is a public information campaign announcing
the registration period in June. The School Directors, representatives of
the civil authority (the chef de quartier, among others),  embers of the
parents-students associations, and, in each small comsunity, the priors
(crieurs of mosques) participate in public announcements.
3.07    Finally, registration takes place in schools or in the provincial
delegation offices under the supervision and responsibility of school
planning units. Provincial delegations representatives confirmed that, as a
policy, every child for which a formal registration has been received for
grade 1 was given access to educational services. Moreover, although it is
not a generalized practice actively promoted by MOE, parents associations
and local groups can request MOE to provide educational materials and
teaching staff for classrooms built and paid by collectivities. Ir. the last
few  years,  between  200  and  300  of  such  classrooms  (representing
approximately 31 of new classrooms financed by public MDE funds) have been
equipped and/or staffed in Morocco.
3.08     The Evolution of Student Cohorts. The preparation of a new school
year is effected greatly by the evolution of student cohorts in terms of
promotion, repetition and drop-out decisions taken withiu the educational
system and by individuals. At the school level, following final examinations
that take place in June, the School Director and the teachers at primary
level-,  and  the  Orientation  Committee  (Conseil  d'Orientation)  at  the
secondary level reviev each individual student record and decide on the
student status for the next academic year: promotion to the next grade,
repetition of the current grade, or exclusion from school in cases of
multiple repetition. Following that operation, class groups are formed on a
tentative basis and teachers are assigned to classes. By the end of
September, the composition and size of class groups, the teachers
assignments, and the weekly schedule of the school are finalized taking into
account adjustments to be made.
3.09    At  the  provincial  level,  the  school  planning  unit  provides
assistance  to school administrators by means of an indicative  list of
facilities likely to be available (new as well as existing facilities) and
enrollment projections for the next academic year based on historical
trends. The former set of data is fi-nlized in June following the monitoring
of school construction program, and more specifically for those schools that
were scheduled for completion before the next academic year (see para. 4.6).
The latter is elaborated in the context of the school mapping process taking
place in January of each year, and updated in July (para. 3.28). Enrollment
projections are used to forecast the number of students at each level, by
institution, and the required resources. Indicators (promotion, repetition
and drop-out rates by school or institution, and by grade) are based on
census data for primary and secondary levels. The census takes place in
November and December of each year for the previous academic year (see
paras. 3.14 et seq.).



Annex E
- 94 -                     Page 16 of 30
3.10     The Orientation of Students.  The third and last key variable in
the preparation of a new school year is the orientation of students at
specific points of their cursus, more specifically at the end of Grade 5 at
primary level, and at the end of Grade 9 at lower secondary level. In the
current system, admission to lower secondary level is restricted to those
succeeding end-of-cycle examinations at Grade 5 and the transition was
characterized by a low -zansition rate from primary to secondary level. For
example, only 37.91 of pupils (nearly 180,000 out of 500,000) enrolled in
Grade 5 in 1983-84 were promoted to the first year of lower secondary level
in 1984-85, 27.81 repeated Grade 5, and 34.31 dropped out. Although the
transition rate between lower and upper secondary levels was higher (56.3X),
the proportion of repeaters was nevertheless excessive, with 31.31 or 49,000
students out of a total population of 158,000 Grade 9 students in 1983-84.
Based on results of examinations prepared and administered at the provincial
level, the transition rates nevertheless reflected limited school facilities
at the next level of schooling and were used as an instrument to control the
growth of the formal education system. In the context of the proposed
education sector reform, the expansion of lower secondary level facilities,
the expansion of vocational training facilities for those who will complete
the basic schooling cycle (Grade 9), and the controlled expansion of upper
secondary cycle would contribute significantly relieve the bottlenecks
between levels and streams as well as to accelerate the flow of students in
the system, thus improving internal efficiency.
3.11     At the provincial  level,  the school planning unit participates
actively in the orientation process in two ways: first, in the orientation
committees (conseils d'orientation) responsible for selecting candidates
admitted at lower secondary or upper secondary levels (para. 3.8); second,
in providing vocational guidance services to students.
3.12     The role of the school planners in the selection of candidates
admitted  to  subsequent  levels  is  to  assist   teachers  and  school
administrators  in  providing  information  on  existing  facilities  and
resources, and to monitor the application of directives issued by the MOE
(for example, concerning the uumber of repetitions allowed, the selection
criteria for specific programs, etc.).
3.13     The school planning unit also provides vocational guidance services
to students enrolled in end-of-cycle grades. Starting in mid-March, School
Planners and Vocational Guidance specialists visit primary and secondary
schools to inform students on training programs and institutions, as well as
on career opportunities and labor market conditions. Later on, in April,
they receive and compile applications for registration in specialized
training sections, and administer, where required, selection tests. Although
these activities were introduced recently and although there is still a lack
of standardized testing procedures and instruments, as well as information
on training programs and institutions, the importance of vocational guidance
has been recognized by the MOE and efforts in training specialists and
developing instruments have been promoted successfully. The National
Institute for School Planners has played a valuable role since 1982 by
training  vocational  guidance  specialists,  and  by  developing  testing
instruments. In the context of the proposed reform program, the DSP is to
conduct a study on the extension of guidance services.



- 95 -             ~~~Annex E
- 95-            ~Page l7 of 30
B. The Census
3.14     The  yearly  census  conducted  by  the  MOE  provides  essential
information on existing activities and resources at primary and secondary
levels. In addition to information on students and teachers by grades and
schools, the census provides data on existing physical facilities
(classrooms, offices, housing, boarding, sanitaries, sports facilities,
workshops,  and  laboratories),  and  personnel   (school  administrators,
administrative  support  staff, accounting  services, and  support services
staff).
3.15     Data  are  collected  in  December  of  each  year.  Questionnaires
prepared by the DSP at the central level are sent to the region and then
distributed to School Directors. The school planning unit is responsible for
distribution,  monitoring  and  collection  of  questionnaires.  Data  are
collected for both primary and secondary levels for each individual school.
Then data are aggregated at the provincial level before they are sent at the
Central level by mid-January. The Education Statistics Division is then
responsible for the preparation and edition of the statistical yearbook
issued in May/June.
3.16     The statistical yearbook format has been standardized in the early
seventies in line with the guidelines developed by UNESCO. Although minor
modifications have been introduced from time to time (for example, to
introduce information on the number of boarders in secondary schools or to
change the categories of non-teaching staff), the collection of yearbooks is
complete  and  data  are  available  to  permit  for  longitudinal  and
cross-sectional comparisons of education performance.
3.17     Among available  data  in  the recent  statistical  yearbooks,  the
following sets are the most important in relation to the proposed reform
program:  comparisons  between  urban  and  rural  enrollments,   internal
efficiency rates, available physical facilities, and staff (teaching as well
as non-teaching staff). The following section provides a brief description
of data already available and, if required, additional data or computations
that would be introduced in order to permit the MOE to monitor the education
reform program.
3.18     Urban  and  Rural  Enrollments.  Urban  and  rural  populations  are
defined according to the Population Census categories as set by the Ministry
of Plan. The Census Bureau defines urban population as all population
residing within the legal boundaries of "municipalites", "centres autonomes"
and "autres centres". The rural population is then defined as all population
residing outside the legal boundaries of the urban areas (called communes as
the generic name for the basic geographic and administrative unit). Table 1
illustrates the number, total population and average size of urban and rural
"communes" in 1982.



- 96 -                     Annex E
-96-                ~~~~Page18 of 30
Table 1: POPULATION OF MOROCCO BY CATEGORY, 1982 /a
Urban                  Rural
Municipa-   Centres    Autres    Communes
lites       autonoces   centres    rurales    Total
Number             45            40       165          761      1,011
Total           6,860           714     1,155      11,689      20,419
Population
(in thousands)
Average       152,451        17,858     7,004       15,360
Size
a/ Source: Ministry of Plan, Population legale du Maroc d'apres le
recensement g6neral de la population et de l'habitat de 1982, May 1983.
3.19     The 1982 Population Census provides data on school enrollment by
sex and urban/rural residence. Tables 2 and 3 below show the net enrollment
ratio for age 7 during academic year 1981-82 and the gross enrollment ratio
for the age group 5-19 for the same period, respectively.
Table 2: NET ENROLLMENT RATIO FOR AGE 7 IN 1981/82 /a
Sex                 Urban           Rural          Urban + Rural
Male                 82.6           48.9                60.7
Female               76.4           19.8               39.9
Male + Female        79.5           34.5                50.2
a/  Source:  Ministry  of  Plan,  Population  l1gale  du  Maroc  d'apres  le
recensement g6neral de la population et de l'habitat de 1982, May 1983.



Annex E
_97 -                      Page 19 of 30
Table 3: GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIO FOR AGE GROUP 5-19
BY SEX AND ORIGIN IN 1982 La
Sex                 Urban           Rural          Urban + Rural
Male                69.5            37.8                50.8
Female              58.9            13.2               32.5
Male + Female       64.2            25.8                41.7
a/  Source:  Ministry  of  Plan,  Population  letale  du  Maroc  d'apres  le
recensement genzral de la population et de l'babitat de 1982, May 1983.
Although the overall gross enrollment ratio increased by more than 15
percentage points in the period 1971-1982, a major effort has still to be
made in expanding rural enrollments and more specifically female enrollments
which increased by 12.5 and 10.1 percentage points respectively during the
same period.
3.20     The  population  census  provides  population data for each rural
cotmune. Based on these data, the DSP prepares on an annual basis population
projections by province, taking into acccount growth and migration rates
observed Dn the past census period, as well as data provided by the school
planning units following the advanced registration for primary level (paras.
3.4 and 3.5). However, this information is used for school planning purposes
only at the provincial and national levels, and thus is not reflected in the
statistical yearbook in net enrollment ratios for age 7 population and in
gross enrollment ratios for age groups 5-19. In view of the proposed reform
program, the DSP will incorporate data on rural and female enrollments in
the statistical yearbook.
3.21     Internal Efficiency Rates. The statistical yearbooks provide data
on promotion, repetition and drop-out rates by grades, sex, and milieu
(urban and rural), as well as pass rates at end-of-cycle examinations at
secondary cycle. In addition, for both primary nd secondary levels, the
statistical yearbook includes an age pyramid by grade and by sex.
3.22     In view of the foreseen improvement on internal efficiency, and the
introduction of limitations to the number of repetitions allowed at primary
and secondary levels, the DSP will (i) compile and analyze students' cohorts
on an annual basis; (ii) analyze the impact of the proposed increases of
promotion rates; and (iii) compile and analyze the impact of limitations to
the number of repetitions allowed. Performance indicators on these measures
would be reflected in the statistical yearbook.



Annex E
- 98 -                     Page 2O of 30
3.23     Available Physical Facilities. The statistical yearbook provides
information on available physical facilities aggregated by province. The MOE
has published during the last few years detailed inventories of secondary
level physical facilities in arabic, distinct from the Statistical Yearbook
available in french.
3.24     The DSP and the school planning units will complement these 'data
with information on (i) ratios of students per teacher and/or per classroom;
(ii) primary schools with multiple shifts and/or multiple grades; (iii)
utilization factors for classrooms, specialized rooms, laboratories, etc;
and (iv) teacher housiug and canteens at the primary level.
3.25     Staff.  For  both  primary and secondary  levels,  the Statistical
Yearbook presents information by province on three major staff categories:
teachers, school administrators, and support services. For the secondary
level, information is more detailed in that it provides aggregates for the
different posts under each category.
3.26     Following an education special study in July 1984 on Non-Teaching
Staff in Secondary Schools, the following measures were recommended in order
to streamline non-teaching staff roles and responsabilities to improve
management efficiency: (i) for school administrators, the redefinition of
functions and norms of allocation for the School Director and, where
required, Assistant Directors and Chief Disciplinary Officers; (ii) for
house masters and tutors, a reallocation in more productive tasks and a
major reduction in their number; (iii) for secretarial services and support
staff,   a   single-grouping   into  a   single   occupational   group   with
diversification of their assignments and reduction of their numbers;
(iv) the reinforcement of maintenance teams; and (v) the self-financing of
support staff directly assigned to boarding facilities. Additional measures
were to address the need to reduce regional disparities: (i) a revision of
budget allocations per province reflecting a decreased and uniformly applied
ratio of non-teaching staff to enrollments; (ii) the decentralization of
recruitment and assignement responsabilities to the regional and provincial
levels; and (iii) enforcement of norms of allocation.
3.27     During appraisal,  the major recommendations  of  the report were
discussed and it has been agreed with the MOE that a study would be
undertaken in the context of the reform program. The study would review,
following a detailed analysis of roles and responsabilities of non-teaching
staff, the descriptions of functions and tasks, the norms of allocation, and
the needs for training shool administrators (see description of the study in
Annex D). The DSP would then complement the information on (i) the ratio of
students and teachers to non-teaching staff; (ii) the allocation of
non-teaching staff per institution according to size and services provided;
and (iii) the allocation of non-teaching staff for boarding facilities.



Annex E
99 -                     Page 21 of 30
C. The School Map
3.28     The preparation of the school map is the process by which school
planning units program the use of available resources for educational
services.  The  major  outcomes  of  this  process  are  the  following:
(i) enrollment projections by school (primary and secondary), by grades, by
classes, and, if applicable, by shift; (ii) physical facilities requirements
for the next 3 to 5 years taking into account the enrollment projections and
the proposed targets for establishing primary schools; (iii) targets for new
intakes at the primary level (grade 1) and at the secondary level (grades 6
and 10); (iv) recruitment areas and/or transfers of students where a new
school  or additional  classrooms  are  to  open;  (v) required  number  of
teachers, school administrators and support staff, taking into account norms
of allocation for personnel; and, (vi) projections of boarders in secondary
schools. This process takes place twice a year: in January for the next
academic year, and in June/July for an updated version before the beginning
of the next school year.
3.29     In view of the proposed expansion of primary and lower secondary
school enrollments particularly in rural areas and for females, the
appraisal mission reviewed carefully the capacity of MOE to undertake the
school mapping process. The mission met with the DSP and School Planning
Division at the central level, and visited two school planning units in
provinces outside the capital area. The mission conclusions are that the
methodology, procedures and decision-making processes are satisfactory, and
that staff are qualified and competent in the exercise of these tasks. More
specifically, this section describes the methodology and procedures used for
Ci) allocating annual investment budget for construction and equipement of
schools to priority elements; (ii) the selection of school location in rural
and urban areas; (iii) the resource allocation to ensure efficient use of
staff and physical facilities.
3.30     The Investment Budget and the Construction Program. As mentioned in
paras. 2.11 and 2.13, the indicative figures for the investment budget and
the proposed school construction program are formulated in the Plan,
following regional consultation and determination of sectoral priorities. In
accordance with the plan objectives and targets, the MOE prepares on an
annual basis a budget proposal in September for discussion with and approval
by the MOF in October/November, and finally for submissiv-a to the Parliamant
in December. For investment credits, budget requirements are expressed in
two categories: credits for new schools and credits to permit completion of
on-going school construction programs. For new schools, the budget
requirements show the estimated commitments to be made in the next fiscal
year as well as the estimated credits in the following years. Once the
budget is approved and credits are made available, committments can only be
made against corresponding credits in the investment program.
3.31     Priority investments are determined first at the provincial level.
Following an indicative statement on budget allocation prepared by the DSP,
provincial delegations submit their proposal as to how many schools and in
what location should the investment program be focussed.



- 100 -                    Annex E
Page 22 of 30
3.32     School Location and Size. The following criteria have been used in
determining priorities:
-   offering to students already enrolled the possibility to complete the
cycle in which they are currently enrolled. In that respect, additional
classrooms are to be built in primary schools that already offer the
initial grades, or additional facilities would be added to accomodate
growing enrollments;
-   offering educational services to local commmnities that expressed their
needs to provincial authorities. In the past few years, the MOE has made
every effort to accomodate local comunuities in the context of limited
financial resources by erecting pre-fabricated classrooms in rural
areas, thus accelerating the construction schedule and answering quickly
to needs;
-   building "satellite schools" (smaller primary schools administered by a
"mother school" in a nearby area) and upgrading some satellite schools
where justified, in order to offer services in remote areas. As a
general rule, the catchment area covers no more than a radius of three
kilometers for the lower grades of the primary level;
-   at secondary level, starting in 1979, the MOE promoted a policy to
construct separate schools for lower and upper secondary levels, thus
reducing the average size of the schools and promoting expansion of
lower secondary schooling in smaller towns;
-   at secondary level, applying a standard size (30 classes) in order to
accomodate a commonly defined schedule and curriculum. In view of the
remarquable  progress   achieved  in  the  regionalization  of  secondary
schools and of the proposed adjunction of the first 3 grades of lower
secondarT in a 9-year basic schooling program, the MOE agreed to modify
these standards. Lower secondary schools would group 20 classes for an
estimated 600 students (as compared to an average 1,200 student-places
in the past), thus reducing the needs for boarding facilities as a large
percentage of these new schools are to be built in small size cities.
3.33     In urban areas, school mapping has been progressively associated
with urban planning. For example, in Meknes (estimated population of
320,000), the school planning unit participated actively in the elaboration
of the first urban master plan for the city of Meknes at the beginning of
this decade. For new developments, the size and location of new schools have
already been incorporated in the detailed regional development plan. In some
other cases, schools are planned to be relocated and facilities added if
necessary. Large cities, and especially provincial capitals, have undertaken
or completed similar planning.



- 101 -                    Annex E
Page 23 of 30
3.34     Staffing needs and Use of Physical  Facilities. School pLanning
units are responsible for providing other departments with information on
staffing requirements and needs, and to insure efficient use of physical
facilities. The descriptions of functions and norms of allocation for staff
are embodied by legal documents (Statuts du personnel), and personnel
administration  is  under   the  responsibility   of   the  Department  of
Administration at the central level, with delegation of responsabilities to
the administrative units at the provincial level. In the school mapping
process,   the  school  planning  unit  prepares  and  transmits  to  the
administrative unit staffing needs according to enrollment projections, the
number and size of classes, and the number and size of schools. In doing so,
the school mapping unit is responsible for insuring efficient use of
facilities, particularly of classrooms and boarding facilities. When
required, recomendations are made to rent facilities, to adapt the weekly
schedule, to reallocate or to convert facilities.
3.35     In the context of of the proposed reform program, the following
elements need particular attention: (i) the need for and allocation of
teacher housing facilities in rural primary schools; and, (ii) the need for
and allocation of boarding facilities in secondary schools.
3.36     In order to facilitate  recruitment of  teachers,  and especially
female teachers, in rural primary schools, it was agreed during the
appraisal mission that teacher housing would be provided in remote areas.
School planning units would be responsible for identifying the areas which
would benifit, and to evaluate the impact of such provisions. In addition,
the MOE agreed to promote the recruitment of married couples, so as to
encourage assignments in remote areas. Past experiences had proven that
teaching staff offered opportunities to establish in a community tend to
settle in that community, and consequently are less inclined to request a
transfer to urban areas. The Department of Administration is currently
conducting a study on school personnel transfer requests at the national
level, for which preliminary results would be available by the end of 1985.
The DSP will follow-up the results of that study and implement, in
collaboration with the DA, a monitoring system for personnel transfer in
primary schools.
3.37     As mentioned  in para.  3.32,  the  need  for  additional  boarding
facilities in projected secondary schools will decrease in the future,
especially at upper secondary level. With only 151 of the schools to be
equipped with boarding facilities, school planning units will have primary
respor.sibility for identifying those schools in accordance with the
projected enrollments and their recruitment area. In addition, for some
existing secondary schools in urban areas, it is foreseen to reallocate
boarding facilities no longer required to other uses. The DSP would be
responsible to monitor the implementation of boarding facilities in line
with the proposed schedules agreed during appraisal.



- 102 -                    Annex E
Page 24 of 30
The School Planning at the Central Level
3.38     The  Directorate  of  School  Planning  at  the  central  level  is
generally responsible for setting policies, systems and procedures regarding
the definition and operation of the school planning and school mapping
processes. In addition, the DSP is responsible for collecting, anslyzing,
and disseminating information received from the school planning units in
each  provincial  delegation.  In  that  respect,  the  DSP,  among  other
responsibilities,
-    issues  directives  on  admission,  registration  and  promotion  of
students at primary and secondary levels;
-    collects  and  disseminates  information  --  the  orientation  of
students  (programmes,  institutions,  studetat  places  available,
conditions of admission, etc.);
-    issues directivee- and supporting documents on the yearly census,
monitors census cieration, and issues the Statistical Yearbook;
-    issues directives, sets priorities, prepares and submits the annual
investment budget for school construction;
-    conducts studies on topics related to school planning and school
mapping.
3.39     As  illustrated  in  the  previous  paragraphs,  the  programming
operations are largely decentralized at the provincial level, while the role
of the central services is concentrated va setting priorities and liaising
with MOE Departments and other Ministries. The following paragraphs describe
two major functions of the DSP in the programming process: the setting and
arbitration of priorities, and the finalization of the school construction
program.
Se.ting Priorities
3.40     The most important task of the DSP is to determine  investment
priorities in the context of limited resources available. As for the
planning process, the DSP's major role in the decision-making process
embodies elements of two convergent approaches: the regional development
perspective and the national/sectoral perspective. On one hand, it provides
guidelines to provincial school planning units on the preparation of school
maps, and on the other hand, it aggregates and finalizes the budget proposal
for investments at primary and secondary levels.



-103 -                     Annex E
Page 25 of 30
3.41     Priorities  are  derived  from  the  objectives  set  in  the  Plan.
Although formal or written policies might not be explicit and priorities
might change from time to time, the following statements represent the core
guidelines for setting priorities:
-    with the exception of large urban areas where the enrollment ratios
have been higher than in remote rural areas, major efforts have
been made to promote equity among provinces, and more specifically
to provide facilities to the largest municipalites and centres
autonomes in all provinces;
-    as mentioned in para. 3.32, efforts have been made to progressively
equip provinces with complete primary schools, then secondary
schools (lower secondary at first, followed by upper secondary),
and even teacher training institutions for primary school teachers,
the idea being that once a child is enrolled at primary level, he
or she would be able to complete secondary level in the province;
-    in remote areas, the MOE started to promote  n the early seventies,
"satellite schools" that are in fact one or few classrooma linked
to and administered by a mother school offering the complete
primary cycle; it contributed to reduce the catchment areas to an
acceptable 2 to 3 kilometers for the first grades of primary cycle;
-    since Independance, secondary schools were located in urban areas
and generally equipped with boarding facilities to accomodate an
average 500 students; this decade has seen a slower increase in the
number of boarders even with an important increase in total
enrollments; it is foreseen that, with the introduction of the
nine-year  basic  schooling  and   the  projected  expansion   of
enrollments from grade 6 to 9, the average size will decrease and
the total number of boarders will stabilize or decline.
Finalizing the School Construction Program
3.42     In the context of the preparation of the annual investment budget,
the School Constrution Division at the central level aggregates the requests
from  provincial delegations  for new  investments,  reviews  the  budgetary
estimates  required  to  complete  the  on-going  construction  program, and
finalizes the scbool construction program in collaboration with the School
Mapping Division. The investment budget is prepared in September/October,
discussed with the Mi-'stry of Finar.cz in late October, and finally
submitted  to  the Parliament by  the end of  the calendar year. Annex F
provides a detailed description on budgeting aspects related to the school
construction program.



- 104 -                    Annex E
Page 26 of 30
IV. THE MONITORING PROCESS
4.01     In view of the proposed reform program and the numerous activities
to be undertaken, monitoring is of paramount importance. As for the school
mapping and the school construction program, monitoring activities are
already embedded in the annual work program at both central and provincial
levels. As for the other specific objectives of the reform, the proposed
task force would develop ad hoc administrative structures and monitoring
systems to review and evaluate results achieved, and to reajust, if
necessary, the targets and work programs. This chapter describes the
existing monitoring systems related to (i) the school mapping, and (ii) the
school construction program.
4.02     At both central and provincial  levels,  the  annual  program  of
activities includes feed-back mechanisms to monitor school mapping and
school construction program. In addition, the inspectorate services provide
advises and guidance to provincial school planning units in the monitoring
process.
4.03     School Mapping Adiustments. At the provincial level, following the
end-of-the-year census taking place in mid-June, the school planning unit
revises the school map in June and July, taking into account the results of
the examinations. Moreover, at the end of July, admissions in specialized
sections or programs at upper secondary level are finalized, taking into
account students' preferences expressed in their advanced registration in
April, recommendations of the orientation couiittee (conseil d'orientation),
and the available student-places.
4.04     Although these adjustments take place at the provincial level only
due to the fact that in general students are residents of the province, the
central services monitor these operations for specialized institutions that
have a national recruitment base. For example, at the secondary level, MOE
technical lycees and vocational training schools' requests for admission are
processed by both the DSP and the Department of Technical Education. The DSP
is also responsible for liaising with other ministries' units in charge of
vocational training and/or technical education institutions.
4.05     School Construction Program Monitoring. As detailed in Annex G, the
MOE has been responsible during the last few years for the construction of
primary schools and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) has been mandated, at
the MOE's request, to execute the construction of secondary schools.
Moreover, although the investment budget for school construction is
allocated to the MOE, large parts of the credits are delegated to the
executing agencies. Thus, credits allocated for secondary schools and for
which construction is executed under the authority of the MPW are
transferred directly to the MPW. The same procedure is followed for primary
schools, for which credits are transferred to the provincial authority (the
Governorate), except for pre-fabricated classrooms. This implies that,
although the investment budget is allocated to the MOE, the monitoring of
physical and financial aspects of the construction program is shared between
(i) the MOE School Construction Division under the DSP for equipment of
primary and secondary schools and for construction of pre-fabricated primary
schools; (ii) the MPW Directorate of Public Institutions and their
provincial delegations for the construction of secondary schools; (iii) the
Ministry of Interior Governorates for the construction of primary schools.



Annex E
- 105 -                     Page 27 of 30
4.06     In  the  current  annual  program  of activities  for the planning
services, the planning unit reviews the status of implementation of the
construction program twice a year, in December/January, and in June. Since
financial aspects are under the responsibility of either the MNPW or the
Governorates, the reports produced by the planning units focus on physical
implementation only, stating for each construction project the percentage of
completion, the expected completion date and proposed actions. This
information serves two major purposes: first, the December review is used in
the preparation of the school map for primary and secondary levels, and the
June review for the preparation of the next academic year; second, the
December review provides information for programming investments at the
central level for coming years.
4.07     Monitoring of the financial aspects is executed at the  central
level only. The School Construction Division requests from the Governorate's
treasurers  and  from  the  MW's  administrative  services  the  financial
statements on investments related to the school construction program for
which they are responsible. The most important information relates to the
total commitments already made versus the total allocation in the budget for
a given fiscal year. Since budget for new investments is fungible within a
category, the School Construction Division is then able to reallocate funds
within these categories. However, the transmission process takes time and
decisions  are  delayed  due  to  inefficiencies  in  the  collection  of
information.  the  cumbersome  process  of  computation,  and  the  limited
resources available. In view of the proposed reform program and particularly
the need to monitor financial aspects of the construction program, this
process is to be improved through the establishment of the MOE reform
implementation task force. Under the authority of the Interministerial
Steering Committee for the Reform, this task force is to compile and
coiminicate this information to the School Construction Division.
Doc 2789V



KINIOON Of MOROCCO
MINISTRY Of EDCATION
GENERAL SECRETARIAT FOR PRI"ARY AND SECONDARY LEVELS
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
5INISTER Of E_ITCATION
ISECRETARY GENERAL FORI
| PRI"ARY AND SECONOARY LEVELS|
DEPARTMENT OF 1            DEPARTMENT OF              DEPARTMET OF                   RTE
SCHOOL PLANI   J            AoNINISTRATION               PERSOEL                      F TRtININ 
EDUCATION STATISTICS       BUDGET                     PRIMARY LEVEL PERSNSEL    *PRIMARY LEVEL STAFF
GUIDANCE SERVICES          SOCIAL AFFAIRS             SECODARY LEVEL PERSONEL   SECONARY LEVEL STAFF
EXTERNAL COOPERATION        AI HTENANCE              -NO-TEAC*IIN  STAFF          UPGRADING PROGRMS         0
-SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION        LEGAL SERVICES              ACCOUNT INm               -RADIO AND TELEVISION
- SCHOOL "APPING                                        DISCIPLINE AND APPEALS    -EXTENSION SERVICES
SPECIAL STUDIES AND                                                               SUPPORT TO TEACHER
PLANNING                                                                       TRAINImG INSTITUTES
0EPARTHENT OF   |0DEPARTMENT Of                       DEPARTMENT Of               DEPARTMENT Of
I PRIMARY EDUCATION   I   SE0-"' EDUCTION              TEIaL EDUCATION             ISI  EDUCATION
CURRICULUM. nETHOOS AND    CURRIcuLUM. EDUCATIONAL    TECmNICAL EDUCATION         SECONDARY LEVEL PROMS  Q
TEXTBOOKS                  MATERIALS                  PROGRtAS                                              S
-SCHOOL AMAAGEENT          .PRIVATE SCHOOLING                                      POST-SECONDARY LEVEL      0
PROGRAMS                   VOCATIONAL EDUCATIaO       PROGRAMS                     
.SUAPERVISION AND                                      POGRMS                                                  pi
PEDAGOGICAL SUPPORT        SCHOOL MANAGEMENT
PRE-SCH0OL PROGRAMS        EXAMINATIONS               SPECIAL STUDIES
-EXTRA-CUJRRICULR ACTI VITI ES
[EXTRA-tJfIRIU"R ACTVITIESPHYSICAL E0LCTIGN                          COMPUTING SERVICES
_ . S~~~~~~~~AD SPORTS 



K I NO0K OF NOCCO
NINISTRY OF EOCICATION
NOE.PROVINCIAL DELEGATION
ORANIZATIONAL CHART
IHINISTER OF EDCATION           NINISTER Of INTERIOR
GENERAL SECRETARIAT  fOR   1                 ]
PRINRY AND SECONDARY LEVELS
| OE  PROVIN*CIAL DELEGATE_ 
L        --   F5__LECRET^ I 7                           >
SCHOOLPLANNING AND        EAUCATIONAL UNIT             AoNl OI STRATIVE UNIT T             1 INPECTTE
SCHOOL ItAP INOtlB UI T.._                                                                                   _
-SCHOOL ItAPPE1N  - PRIARY     -PRE-SCHOOL PROGRAMS           -   ET                         -SCHOOL PLANNING INSPECTOR
-PRIMARY EDUCATION              PERSChZL                       TEACHI NO ANO PROR"ANS
-SCHOOL NAPPINg   - SECOANDAY                                                                INSPECTORS
LEVEL                 - 51~~~~ECONOARY EDUCAT ION    -EQUJI PHENr AND NA INTEANACE
EOUC^TIOc STATISTICS           EXAMINATIONS                   CSTEENSR     INSPECTORS
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION            COOPERATIVES                  -SOCIAL AFFAIRS
VOCATIO"AL GUIDANCE            EXTRA-CtURICULAR ACTIVITIES    TREASURY
oN t



K I No"  Of IOROCCO
"INISTRY OF EDWCATION
SCHOOL "APPING AND SCHOOL PLANNING SERVICES
ANNUAL PROGRAM OF ACTIVITIES
ACTIVITIES                                               NONTH
SEP  OCT  NOV  DEc   JAN   FEB   "AR  APR   MAY  JUN  JUL  AUs
.   .   .   .             ,     ,     ,     ,      ,     ,     ,     ,      ,     ,  _ ,   _ ,   ,*  a  a 
1. FINAL PLMN CW CtEWOF   SCHOOL YEA                        a : t
2. COWFIRNATION OF PRIOR-YEAR       :611::
EXAMINATIONS REKSJLTS           :                        :                       :
3.  SCHOOL CENSUS - SECOAIARY LEVEL  :               ""' :
4.  SCHOOL CENSUS - PRIMARY LEVEL    '                  "'
5.  STATUS REPORT ON THE SCHOOL                          "a:":
CONSTRUCTION PROGRM             :
6. DRAFT SCHOOL PLAN FOR NEXT SCHOOL:                      1    . 
YEAR - PRIMARY LEVEL
7. DRAFT SCHOOL PLAN FOR NEXT SCHoOL:                        :"I'll                                       s
YEAR - SECONDARY LEVEL                                   :                                            U   :
B. DRAFT SCHOOL PLAM FOR NEXT SCHOOL :                       :
YEAR - ODAROINS FACILITIES      :                        :                       :                    H   :
9. (kPDATE OF THE SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION:                                ......                             E
PROORAM                         :                        :                       :                    R   :
10. EDUC^TIONAL AND VOCATIONAL      :                       :                        :
INFOWRMTION CAMPAIG N                                    :
It. REGISTRATIONS FOR SPECIALIZED    :                      :a"":                                        V
PROGRAMS                        :                        :                                            A
12. VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE CAMPAIGN    :                       :                        : *uuumu'           C   :
A:
* 13. STATUS REPORT ON THE SCHOOL      :                       :                               .            T
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM                                     :                        :                   I
14. FINAL RESULTS. PROWOTION TO     :                        :                                           0
SECONDARY (GRAOE 6)                                                                                   N:
15. CoNIltATICON OF RESULS TO BACCA- :                       :                       :        III
LAUREAT (GRADE 121 EXAMINATIONS  :                       :                       a                        a
16. CENSUS - END OF THE ACADENIC YEAR:                       :                       :
17. SCHOOL MAP REVIEW - PRIMARY LEVEL:          :           :    ... ...                                      I    O
: a.. aa
12. SCHOOL MAP REVIEW - SECOMOARY    :                       a                       a         1              a
LEVEL                                                                                                           ° a
19. NOMI1ATIONS FOR FELLobSHIPS AT   :                       :                       :               II
SECONOARY LEVEL                 :                        :                       a                        a
20. REVIEW OF REGISTRATIONS FOR     : e                                              a
SPECIALIZED PRCORANS            :                        :                       :                        a
21. STATUS REPORT ON THE SCHOOL                             y:                       :                        :
CONSTRUCTION PRoGRAM (SCHOOLS    :                       :                        :
COMPLETED)
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a 



-109 -                      Annex F
Page 1 of 13
KIIIGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAIAL REPORT
Impemntaio -of Sehool Couatruotion
Administrative Cotext of Schoo Comatton Pro?amn
Morocco is divided into eight Prefectures (State or Country urban
areas) and 39 Provinces, grouped throughout the country under nine economic
regions (Annex 1).  Each economic region is headed by the Governor of one of
the Provinces within the region. There are three Pr6fectures in Rabat and
five  in  Casablanca.   The  'Wali"  in  Rabat  heads or governs one of the
Prefectures and coordinates all three together, and the Wali in Casablanca
heads or governs one of the Prefectures and coordinates all five together.
The subdivisions of the Prefecture are:  the Municipality, the District and
the Arrondissement. The subdivisions of the Province are the Municipalities
(in cities), the Circles (in the rural areas), the caidat (as a subdivision of
the Circle) and the Conmune. Although Governors and Walis are appointed by
the King at the recommendations of the Central Government, they are under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. The Governor is directly assisted
by the Division of General Affairs, the Cabinet, and the Secretary General who
is  the head of the Administration.  Each Ministry is represented in each
Province and Prefecture by its Delegates, who assist the Governor or Walis but
are  directly  responsible  to  the  Minister.   Table  I  illustrateg  the
administrative structure of the province-level administration; Table 2 shows
the administrative structure of the Ministry of Education (MOE) provincial
delegations:



Organi2atiagal Chart of Province-laval Adinhstratlan
A*ministratIvw Chart
I PEFECTUIE-UIYA. I PEIFECTUEE. L       P loci
GOrvEINEUIq-MlI |  GOUrvEINEU         GLOUvERHEUR 
| -0  A. G.                    SI[ KURIAT GENERAL ACC_IN{_T
DIVISIWI                                                                    OIVISIOh OES
OES AFFAIRES  O_IVISIN                 _                                     COLLECTIVIT|S  DIVISION
ECONOMIQUES               TECHNIQUE                                          LOCALES (WEAN                K   UeOGT
ET SOCIALES                                                                     ANO I_ A_
HOES
1  The Uali and the Governors are representatives of His Majesty.  They are nominated by N.M. but resin under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Interior.
2. The Governor Is directly assisted by the Oivision of General Affairs (DA.G.), the Cabinet nW the Secrstary General.
3. The Secretary General Is the head of the administration.
4. Primry school construction Is assured by either the Division of Social and Economic Affairs or the Technical Div1sion (architects/en1inoers).
DOac. 18855 p. 43
1
I-'
l~~~~~~~~~~~



fr.anizational Chart of HOE Pravintial DOaiaatt°"s
Le O*loue Provincial
Plnificatian St            Administrative at                Formt10n des               Centrele PeRdauuua.
de loarimntation            Financler.                       Cadres
Bureau de l Informs-                                                                                 1ureu de iS                     aueau de lns nemit nt
tZqe et de la                            Bureau de la                 Bureau du Pesonnel               Foreatin dos              Pr Scolaire et l'En-
Roalation Publique                       Carts Scolatr                                                 Ense1n nes                 se1gn tt FrOO
F                       I                                               8 I  I Bureau des Equipeumnt   1 Bureau de la   |         | eau do   u1'nuse        nt|
B Bureaul d'Ordre         B- ureau de laOrin-                           at de la gestion des  I        I Far_tton des             I Primir1
|                       |                 tation Scalaire               Patrfololns            |          setuants
_                                  lz__  I..1*I* I
IF                                        I                  I    .,  I                        |         Burpau de sa               auexu Education Physique
Collule           |-----            | Bureau de Cons-             B | Bureau as Affaires         I foret10n        I        I        rt Spartivo          I
Infor_ atious_                            truction Scolaire j               Socialos                      r Por nante                                          I
Bureau de                                                  B |ureau de IlEnsee1nemnt |
lordannancent                                                     Secoandalre
)xmns
,      '     -       811t~~~~~~~~Li



- 112 -
Annex F
Page 4 of 13
Until 1979, the Division of Equipment and School Construction of the
MOE was in charge of all MOE school construction except Bank-financed
schools. In 1979, the Ministry of Public Works (MNPW) was assigned
responsibility for the construction of all government-financed secondary
schools. This decision was taken in view of MPW's well-developed regional
implementation network in order to alleviate MOE's school construction
responsibilities.
The MPW, through its provincial delegations, is responsible for
supervision and reception of primary schools. It receives a fee from the MOE
for those services equivalent to about 3% of school construction cost.
ODeratonal Steps
The Carte Scolaire. which is located in the MOE in Rabat, prepares
the school mapping for all of the country (see Annex F). It sets the programs
for school requirements in terms of classrooms, administration, housing,
boarding and other services. This is done by taking into account the yearly
projection of students to enter schools. The data is presented on special
school record cards or forms for each school in every Governorate (see Annexes
5 and 6). This is followed by the preparation of a budgetary program with the
Finance La Loi des Finances. Once the program is completed, it is sent for
implementation to the Governors of the Provinces for primary school masonry
construction, to the Division for prefabricated classrooms, and to the MPW
which is in charge of secondary schools construction.
Th Divisio
Centrally located, it is composed of three major service departments
for: (a) school construction; (b) studies, Bureau d'Etude as a control unit;
and (c) procurement of furniture and equipment.
The Division, headed by a Director, has its own technical support
staff composed of 2 architects, I engineer, 12 assistant technicians (trained
by MPW and specialized in architecture and urban planning), 1 coordinator for
furniture  and  equipment,  1  accountant, and 2 secretaries.  The Division
handles the construction of prefabricated primary schools and the procurement
of furniture and equipment for all schools with the exception of those under
the Bank's projects.
The Central Division is also represented in each province; it keeps
close contact and cooperation with the MOE's provincial delegations, as well
as with other Ministries' delegations in the Governorates.



- 113 -
Annex F
Page 5 of 13
The Ministry of Public Works (MPW). There are three basic divisions
in the MPW:
(a) Programming Division;
(b) Division for Architectural and Engineering Stcdies; and
(c) Technical Division.
There are 30 architects and engineers, as well as administrative staff.
The Service Central de la Direction des Equipements Publics is
endowed with considerable power and responsibility over construction in
general and school construction  in  particular.   Its  contribution  is  not
limited to school construction for the MOE only, but also extends to the
studies and works pertaining to other ministries (such as Commerce, Energy,
Fishery, Health, etc.)
The MPW is represented in the Provinces by the Directeurs Regionaux
de  l'Equivement.   They  are  supported  by  technical  staff  to  assist  the
Provinces, (which usually lack technicians), in the selection of sites, and
architects,  and  Bureaux  d'Etude.  in  overlooking  the  preparation  of
topographical surveys and soil tests, reviewing and approving architectural
and engineering studies, attending in the provisional and final reception of
buildings.
The MPW prepares, at the central level, the cost estimates and
assists in setting up the budgets, La Loi des Finances, in monitoring and
delegating the credits to the Directeurs Repionaux in the Provinces, who
assume the construction responsibilities at the regional levels. While civil
works implementation is handled by the Directeurs Retionaux, bidding and
contract awards are approved by the central administration of public works.
The MOE has adequate capacity to implement school construction as
programued under the reform. This capability is confirmed by its performance
in the volume of school construction as implemented during the last five years:



- 114 -
Annex F
Page 6 of 13
NUMBER OF CLASSROOMS DELIVERED
(1981-85)
1981      1982      1983       1984      1985
Primary                      3,464     3,327      2,753     2,952      3,219
Secondary                    1,685     3,427        903       650      1,546
The inability of the MOE to cope with constantly increasing demands
for provision of schools resulted in deconcentrating the responsibilities for
implementing the school construction programs, as described above.
While the MPW has been entrusted with the secondary school
construction, it has also undertaken the construction of 695 primary
classrooms in the rural areas, as an experiment to provide masonry classrooms
as economic as those prefabricated. The experience has, in general, been a
success and the MPW is at present entrusted with an additional 866 new masonry
primary classrooms to be built throughout the Governorates.
As mentioned earlier, the MNPW has considerable responsibility over
school  construction  in  general  and  secondary  school  construction  in
particular, as illustrated in Attachments 1 and 2.
Further pertinent information and details on school construction are
available in the Morocco Education Special Study on Investment Costs of
Primary Schools and Non-Teaching Staff in Secondary Schools dated February 22,
1985.
The following is a brief description of implementation, including
pertinent information related to primary and secondary school construction.
Sites. They are selected by a special committee. The size of a site
for a primary school is about 10,000m2 and the average cost is about
DH 300,000. The size of a secondary school site is 25,000m2 to 30,000m2 and
the average cost is about DH 500,000.



- 115 -
Annex F
Page 7 of 13
Site Survey. The site survey is prepared by a private firm against a
fee included under site development works and costs.
Soil Tests.  They are prepared by a recognized public laboratory
against a fee also included under site development works and costs.
Selection of Design/Architects.  The Governor selects  the design/
architect for the primary school against a fee of 5% to 61 of the construction
cost. The Directeur Regional of public works proposes a list of architects
for the secondary school designs and the MPW, at the central level, selects
and assigns the architect.
Engineering  or  Bureau  d'Etude.   In  the  case  of  primary  school
construction, the contractor is requested, in accordance with the General
Conditions, to provide the engineering studies (structural electrical and
mechanical)  at  his  own  expense.   In  the  case  of  the  secondary  school
construction, the MPW handles the procurement of engineering service through
competitive bidding par appel d'offre.  The fee, for the engineering works
including  supervision, varies  from  31  to  4.5X.   The  engineering  works
entrusted by the contract to the Bureau d'Etude is controlled by the technical
regional division  for  the  primary  schools.   For  secondary  schools,  the
technical central division of MPW checks on the electrical and mechanical
works and entrusts SEDOTEC, a private international organization to control
the structural design and works. As of 1986, the MPW is anticipating to have
its own Bureau d'Etude in the Ministry.
Bidding Documents. Bidding documents are prepared by the architect.
They comprise a complete set of architectural and working drawings, details
and all required engineering drawings, special and general conditions,
technical specifications and a bill of quantities. However, in the case of
primary schools construction, the structural, electrical and mechanical plans
are prepared by the contractor after being awarded the contract.
Supervision and Reporting. It is basically the responsibility of the
architect to provide the required supervision, as needed.  However, it is
limited to one visit every fortnight, which is considered insufficient.
Therefore, the Service des Bitiments in the MPW provides more periodic and
technical supervision visits together with the engineer of the technical staff
of the Governorate, particularly when the Bureau d'Etude is not in charge of
supervision.
These visits and related comments are recorded in the construction
site book. Quarterly and yearly progress reports are prepared and presented
to the beneficiary during construction, and a final report is submitted after
the final reception of buildings.



- 116 -
Annex F
Page 8 of 13
lili of Quntities and Checking of Claim. Tbe contractor has his
ow  quantity surveyor who acts on his behalf; in the case of pri=ry schools,
the architect, on behalf of the beneficiary, checks and verifies the
quantities and claim, confirms and approves their validity for paymcnt. II
the case of gecondary schools . the Pw' s quantity surveyor checks and verifies
the quantities  d clam  submitted by the contractor.
Pafnrts. No advance payments are effected. Contractors my request
payments of 80O of materials on site and suboit for mnthly payments in
accordI ce with the General Conditions. Orders for payments are issued by the
administration or the Covernor for the primary schools and by the MW for the
secondary schools.  The Directeur Regional of the NW controls and approves
the orders for payments at the regional level. Procedures of payments are
careful, strict and well controlled by the CG8D, Coutrole General des
Erlrnmmts des Deneses at the central level and by the CUD, Controle
Rezionale des    _mts des Devense at the regional level.  The controllers
of the finance must verify the budgetary aspects and approve the orders for
paymnts before payments are effected by the Treasury.
Payments are effected centrally and at the regional level where the
finance or the Ministry of Finance (NW) is represented.  Annexes 16 and 17
are samples of docunents required for processing of payments.
Reception of Duildina (see sample documnuts, Annexes 18 and 19). The
basic members of the comittee in charg for receiving the buildings are the
school director. the architect, a representative of the MDe, the regional
director of the MW, and the contractor. The final reception takes place one
year after the provisional reception when the 31 bank guarantee, submitted by
the contractor as a perfor nce bond, expires and is returned to him against a
personal guarantee for 10 years. as required by legislation.
uFinteinance. Maintenance, as an upkeep of buildings and equipment,
to safeguaro and protect the capital investment, is not rigorously practiced
in Morocco.  Budget, for daily cleaning, as salaries for permanent persounel
is usually set at the beginning of each year (not to be confused with
m4ntenance for the conservation of buildings and equipment).



- 117 -
Annex F
Page 9 of 13
Schools get one janitor per 10 classrooms. The number of persocnel
varies with the type and aim  of the institution.  The concept of aintenane
and its importance seem to be understood by most of the .inistries and the
administration. Nevertheless, there is no fised yearly budget for maintenance
repairs.
On March each year certain amounts are budgeted as allocation of
amounts requested by the school directors for repairs. The list for repairs
is established by technicians from the Esida or the Province. The delegate of
the MOE studies the requests and establishes the credits required. The budget
is then allocated in March of each year to the Province by the Central Service.
The following is an example of budget allocation for maintenance of
schools in Makn6s:
Neknks-1985 Maintenance Budget
Primary School                          DE 125,000
Secondary Schools                       DE 160,000
Vocational Training Centers             DE 150,000
Quoting the officials in the Delegation of the MOD. these amounts are not
sufficient.
Attac8 ets



Annex F
- 118 -                     Page 10 of 13
Attachment I
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
FIVE-YEAR PLAN (1981-84)
(Implementation During Four Years)
Yearly Implementation*
Construction Item                  1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    Total
General Classroom                   579   1,378   1,460   1,295       -     4,712
Science and Specialized Room        153     335     562      621      -      1,671
Boarding                             13      39       32      26      -        110
Administration                       16       72      85      80      -        253
Staff Housing                       126     224      254     248      -        852
Multipurpose Room                     6       33      40      33      -        112
*Information submitted by MP.



- 119 -
Annex F
Page 11 of 13
Attachment 2
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Table 1: TRIENNIAL PIAN (1978/80)
Yearly Implementation*
Construction Item                  1978         1979        1980        Total
General Classroom                 1,376        1,376       1,278        4,024
Specialized Room (lower level)      261         218          182          661
Specialized Room (upper level)      208          188         151          547
Library                              70           65          70          205
Teachers' Room                       51           69          62          172
Offices                             321         339          322        1,042
Boarding 120 Students                30          24           16           70
Boarding 240 Students                 4           12           6           22
Guardians                            44          54           61          164
Staff Housing                       420         114          125          659
Lockers and Showers                  53          64           69          186
Toilets                           1,341        1,234       1,327        3,905
Site Development
(exterior works, fences,
drainage water, electricity
and sports fields)                316         356          320          989
*Infor,ntion submitted by MPW.



120 -             ~~~Annex F
- 120 -                     Page 12 of 13
Attachment 2
Table 2 *hows the extent of the construction program under the
Project between 1985 and 1987.
Table 2: CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
CLASSROOMS/SCHOOLS TO BE BUILT
Level/Facilities                   1985         1986         1987        Total
Primary
-Schools
New Schools                        172         282          263           717
-Housing
Director                          172          282          263           717
Teachers                          429          705          659         1,793
Guardian                          172          282          263           717
-Services
Canteens                          257          423         395          1,075
Secondary-Lower Level
-Schools
New Schools                       115           86          143           344
-Housing
Director                          115           86         143            344
Guardian                          115           86         143            344
-Boarding Facilities
Student Boarding                   17           13          21             51
Staff Housing                      51           39          63            153
Secondary-Upper Level
-Schools
New Schools                         0            0            5             5
-Housing
Director                            0            0           5              5
Guardian                            0            0           5              5
-Boarding Facilities
Student Boarding                    0            0           1              1
Staff Housing                       0            0           2              2



_ 121 -
Annex F
Page 13 of 13
Attachment 2
Table 3 shows the MOE 1985 program for school construction.
Table 3: 1985 SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Prefabricated         Masonry
(Classrooms)        (Classrooms)            Total
Rural     Urban     Rural    Urban      Rural    Urban
Primary               1,882         0       866      1,230
Secondary
Lower Level               0         0          0     2,949
Upper Level               -         -          -        49
Table 4 shows the MOE's school construction program between 1985 and
1987.
Table 4: SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION (CLASSROOMS) PROGRAM
(1985-87)
1985          1986          1987
Primary                          3,978         2,821          2,135
Secondary
Lover Level                      2,949          1,786         2,136
Upper Level                         49            36             39
It is clear that the revision of norms is primordial in view of its
considerable saving impact over the project cost and more so over a
continuously growing school construction program.
Doc 2789V



- 122 -
Annex G
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Revised Construction Norms for Primary and Secondary Schools
School Construction Norms
The appraisal mission reviewed with the Ministry of Education (MOE)
the different aspects of school construction and examined the norms and areas
related to the primary and secondary schools as well as boarding and housing.
Primary School
The primary school is basically composed of a certain number of
classrooms for academic spaces (ten for a prototype school under this
program), a covered area, two offices for the administration and a sanitary
block.  In addition, housing is provided:  one house for the director and one
for a guardian.  Also, one staff housing and a canteen are provided in the
rural areas according to ratios mentioned below.
The gross area of each classroom is 63m2 as actually built with
masonry. The covered area, equal to the area of two classrooms, is provided
for each school. The mission has examined with La Division de la Construction
Scolaire et de 1'Equipement as well as with "Les Services de Planification et
lea Directions PedatoRicues" of the MOE-the necessary and required are for
one classroom with a 40 students capacity in a primary school.  The cross
dimensions for the proposed classroom, that have been submitted by the Mission
and accepted by the parties mentioned above, are 6.00m x 8.00m. The new net
area of 48m2 as against 56m2 provides 1.20m2 per student based on a 40
students capacity against 1.40m2 per student presently used. The norm of
1.20m2 is 92 over the minimum acceptable area of l.10m2
The new dimensions, compared to those 7.00m x 8.00m used until now,
provide a more economical structural span and offers a reduction in floor area
of 14.3% with respect to each classroom under the ongoing construction
program. This reduction represents 128m2 or 13.4% of the total school area
with respect to each school. This saving expressed in number of schools means
that for every 100 primary schools to be built there would be materialized an
economy of over 13 schools.



- 123 -
Annex G
Page 2 of 3
With respect to the location or dispersion of primary schools and
their annezed facilities. it has been agreed that 50S of primary schools would
be in rural areas and 501 in urban areas. Staff housing would be provided for
501 of the rural premises thus excluding any staff housing in the urban
areas. In terms of ratio, there will be one staff house for every (4)
classrooms. Also it has been agreed that the canteens would be provided in
the rural areas following the ratio of (1) canteen for (8) primary classrooms.
Secondary Schools
As for the secondary school construction, the mission has examined,
with NW and La Direction de la Planification de 1 EnseiRnesent Primaire et
Secondaire,  the  norms  and  areas  related   to  the   secondary  level
accommodations.  The norms for these accommodations are compiled in a document
entitled Construction Scolaire de I'Enseignement Secondsire, Recuil de normes
mise a iour pour l'execution du Proxramme 1983. A copy of this document was
submitted to the mission.  It is now available in DIENA Central Files.  La
Carte Scolaire prepares the academic requirements and records the class and
space require ent on a form for both secondary levels (Annexes 5 and 6). The
form is submitted to NW in charge of the secondary school construction. The
latter assigns an architect for the design and submits him the compilation of
norms recuil de normes which specifies the areas for the different functions.
The document describes the function of spaces in question and gives the area
required for each function. Apparently. this collection of norms presently in
application does not seem to provide satisfactory results. The Director of
Public Works, ea behalf of the MPW, is actually seeking a revision of these
norms.  He has launched a call for bidding to recruit an eogiDeerig firm for
the purpose of conducting a critical examination and analysis of'the present
norms vith the intention to establish new ones. The contract for the study
has been signed and it is anticipated that the study and report will be ready
by the end of this year.
The revision by the mission of the accoumodations and area norms-
with La Direction de la Planification de 1'Enseignement Primaire et
Secondaire-has materialized an average economy in area equal to 566n2 or 171
of the total area without however affecting the functions or the standards.
The revision covers the school and boarding facilities.
Furthermore, the mission has proposed that the staff house gross area
be 100m2 and that of the guardian 60.2.
It is further important to note that it has been agreed with MOE that
boarding facilities under the project will be provided at the ratio of 151 of
the total number of secondary schools to be built. Three and two staff houses
will be provided for the college and the lycees, respectively. Table 1 is a
comparative table for areas pertaining to primary and secondary school
construction illustrating the saving impact over the new construction program
resulting from the revision of norms.



- 124 -
Annex G
Page 3 of 3
Table 1: COMPARATIVE TABLE FOR AREAS AND SAVINGS
Present     Wall and       Actual  Proposed  Savings       S
Item               Norms      Circulation      Area     Area      in m2     Saving
Staff Housing           90          25S       112.5       100       1.25       11l
Guardian                70          25S        87.5        60      27.50       311
Primary School         778          20S       934.0       806     128.00       13S
Secondary School-
Lower Level         2,636           --     2,636.0    2,080      556.00       21X
Secondary School-
Upper Level         4,313           -      4,313.0    3,736      577.00       131
Boarding             2,400          -       2,400.0    1,901      499.00       211
Doc 2789V



- 125 -                                    AnLff
Pa  I of 4
itmo a L uoro
STA: UAPPRAISAL  tPO
Th  Isse  raised by the following  article  wUld be rsolvd  by mans of specific exsCepttns rather than by
modificatl07 in the Decree. This would be ensured through appropriate provisions tn the SAR and Loan douetntation to
MOM existing local procedures acceptable for pr=cmnt of ites financed by the lnk Group.
Dere              Article                  Issue                   C_ment                Acceptable Procedures
2 76-479            33             Bid evaluation          lids my not be altered       go bidder should be
caMttet  my not only   after bid opening             requested or permitted to
seek clarifications     (B. G. 2.46).                alter his bid after bid
fre  bidders. but my                                 opening (B. G. 2.46).
also request bidders
to indify their bid
after bid opeing.
Doc 2789V



-126 -                                        AUnex N
Page 2 or 4
DUCATrI SECTOR ADJUSThENT LUAU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Cate9ry II: Provisions Romuirino Sandal Nonitprine
Clarification and/or understanding will be sought on procedures to be followed for procurem_t of Bank-financed
contracts with respect to the following provisions.
Procedures to be Included
Decree             Article                    Issue                     Comment                   In Documentation
2-76-49                1           Procedures reviewed     Procedures appl table to    IWere Project entity procures
209-6S                 I           apply only to           procurement of Items to       Bank-financed Items under
155-6S                 1           procurement for the     be carried out by             LCB. SAR should clarify whether
CCAG                   1           Governoents account.  Project entity                  and to what extent the decree
(parastatal. private         and CCAG apply to the Project
enterprise) should be        entity and conditions under
ascertained. Although        which the procedures therein
In practice the decrees      or other procedures are
are applied to perastatals.  acceptable.
the basis on which they
are applied should be
clarified.
2-76-479           27-3S           Limited LCB upon        Thus is to be considered      If limited LCB is to be used,
direct invitation       acceptable for small         SAR and loan docuentation
Cappel doftres          ameunts.                     should specify terms and
restreint) Is                                        conditions (cut-off threshold)
permitted for                                        under which It will be applied.
contracts under
ON 1 million. Limits
can be raised by Prime
Minister.
Doc 278W



- 127 -                                       Am   N
Pale 3 of 4
EfWATION SKlO    ADJIThENT LOAN
STAFF APPRArSAL REPORT
Catmery rxx   Prnvtsans Remiirino Special Monitorino
Clarification and/or understanding will be sought an procedures to be followed for procurement of Bank-financed
contracts with respect to the following provisions.
Procedures to be included
Decree             Article                     Issue                     Comrent                    In Documentation
209-65                 1            The CCAG apply          General conditions            SAR and, if necessary, loan
(CCAGI                 I           only to civil works.    (cahier des charges)           documentation should clarity
151-66                 1                                    applicable to goods           what general conditions
should be                    apply to goods and services.
ascertained. Although        and extent to which applicable
In practice the              conditions are acceptable.
CCAG appear to be used
for goads as well as
works, the basis on.
and extent to which.
they are applicable
is unclear.
Z-76-479              28           Advertising period       15 days Is generally          SAR and loan documentation
may be as short as       insufficient time to         should specify an
IS days.                enable bidders to             advertising period of
obtain documents and         sufficient length to enable
prepare and submit           bidders to obtain documents
reports.                     and prepare and submit
responses (9G 2.9) and require
bidding procedure to apply such
inismum.
2-76-479                           Bidders may either       uOiscount  procedure          SAR and loan documentation
submit a proposed       is unclear and defeats        should specify that bidders be
price (offre de prix)   competitive process.          required to submit price offers
or a discount on                                      in tneir bids.
the price established
by the Government
(rabais).
Doc 2789v



-128 -                                        A      hhD. t
Page 4 of 4
K!MGDI Of MCCO
[flUcA?!fl  SECTOR *f.USTMEET LOAh
STAFF APPRASAL REPORT
Cateaorv Ill Provision Remrnu1r1n rmcrovemant
The Borrower will be encouraged to make improvsiunts in the following provisions to ensure better competition and fair
treatanwt of all bidders.
Decree             Article                     Issue                     Cowment                 Improved Procedures
2-76-479           30-35            Bid opening through     Where two envelope            Overtime change should be to
two-step process with   system used, delays           one envelope system
first envelope to       in opening second             (B.G. 2.45).
provide documentation   envelope discourages
and second envelope     bidding and can lead
prices,                 to abuses.
Second envelope to be
opened If contractor is
qualified on basis of
information in first
envelope.
Doc 2789V



- 129 -                    Anner I
Page 1 of 9
KINGDOM OF MORWCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMT LOAN
STFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ministry of National Education
Draft Law
No.      of
Concerning Incentives to Encourage Investments
in Private Education
Al-Hassan Ben Muhanmd Ben Yossef Ben Al-Hassan, King of
Morocco, In accordance with the Constitution, particularly
Section  26;  and  Upon  the  approval  of  the  House  of
iepresentatives, We order the following law to be enacted:
First Section
First Chater
General Rules
Article 1 - The benefits prescribed in this law shall be enjoyed by
any investor who is a natural or legal person and who plas to build or
expand a private education institution, in accordance with the organic law
regulating private education.
Article 2 - Private education institutions include both general and
specialized (technical or vocational) education institutions.
(a) General education institutions:
-    Kindergartens:  offering education preceding the primary stage.
-    Primary education schools.
-    Elementary and secondary schools.
-    Higher education institutions.
(b) Specialized education institutions:
-    Technical education institutions.
-   Vocational education institutions.
- Any elementary, secondary, technical or vocational institution
offering education by correspondence or other audio-visual means
provided that they have their main offices in Morocco.



- 130 -                     Annex I
Page 2 of 9
Article 3 - The establishment of a private education institution as
prescribed in Article 1 of this Lay shall mean the construction of an
educational institution and the provision of all facilities required in it
to offer the kind of education described in Article 2 above, provided that
the costs of the investment project shall not be less than 500,000 dirhams.
Article 4 - The expansion of a private education institution shall
mean an investment designed to increase the capacity of the institution that
should:
-    Increase the number of classrooms or the size of the laboratories
designated for the specialized (technical or vocational) education
by 30S with a minimum no less than 5 classrooms for the general
education or the equivalent with regard to specialized (technical
or vocational) education; or
-    Represent 202 of  the total present value of the project under
expansion. In this case, the reassessment criteria regarding the
real estate project tax under Law No. 1/77/372 of December 30, 1977
enacting the Financial Law of 1978 shall be applied.
Second Chapter
Conditions for Obtaining Benefits Prescribed in this Law
Article 5 - The benefits described in this Law shall be offered to
the owners of the private institutions prescribed in Article 2 above
provided that they submit their investment plans to the administrative
authority for verification of compliance with this Law.
Article 6 - If the institution has several branches of education,
such branch shall be considered a separate entity in terms of obtaining the
benefits provided for in this Law.
Article 7 - An investment plan for which a compliance certificate
is issued shall be executed within 18 months following the month in which
the administrative authority notifies the investor of compliance with the
Law.
However, the authority may allow additional time for compliance due
to the significance of investment or in the case of a force majeure or a
sudden accident.
If the investment plan is not executed during the extended time,
the unaccomplished part shall not enjoy the benefits prescribed in this
Law. The receipt of a compliance certificate does not relieve the investor
from obtaining all administrative licenses required by law and regulations.



- 131 -                    Annex I
Page 3 of 9
Article 8 - If the amount of investment excluding land price
exceeds 5 million dirhams, the investor may ask for an agreement with the
Government by which, and without prejudice to the applicable lawv, he can
obtain additional benefits such as training or increasing the experience of
the teaching and administrative staff, or utilizing the services of such
staff on loan for the investor's benefit. Such agreement shall specify the
technical and financial terms pertinent to the execution of the planned
investment.
Article 9 - The investor who avails himself of one or more of the
benefits prescribed in this Law shall submit to the authority within three
months following the completion of his investment plan a report indicating
its accomplishment.
If the period designated for accomplishment exceeds 36 months, the
investor shall submit the said report once every 12 months. When the
investment plan is completed, the final report on work progress shall
include, if necessary, a copy of the contract or agreement between the
investor and the director or directors who will be assigned the management
of his institution.
The investor's failure to meet this obligation, shall make him
subject to the penalties prescribed in Article 11 of this Law.
Article 10 - Private education institutions which benefitted from
one or more of the privileges prescribed in this Law may not be sold during
the first ten years of operation, and if such sale occurs before the
expiration of the specified duration, such privileges shall be recovered.
However, an exception of the above provisions may be made and the
sale of private education institutions wri take place during the period
specified in the first paragraph above said under conditions set by the
authority to protect the state's rights and to ensure the contiruation of
the educational goal expected from such institutions.
Article 11 - If the investor does not accomplish his investment
plan according to the specified objectives, the authorized benefits may be
withdrawn under a decree to be issued by the Minister of Finance upon the
recommendation of the governmental authority in charge of national education.
This decree shall require the payment of fees and taxes which
should have been paid and the recovery of offered loans as well as the
payment of interest that would have been due, in addition to the recovered
part of interest on other loans and an amount equal to each of the interest
payments. The competent authority shall collect the amounts due for payment
or recovery according to its applicable rules.



- 132              ~~~~Annex I
- 132 -                     Page 4 of 9
An investor who enjoys one or more of the benefits prescribed in
this Law may be subiect to observation or investigation to be conducted by
officials assigned for this purpose by the authority.
Article 12 - The credit and rent contractor working for an investor
shall enjoy the benefits prescribed in this Law, provided that the
exemptions shall be deducted from the rent due on the investors.
Second Section
First Chapter
Exemptioas from Taxes
Provisions concerning exemptions from import duties and product tax.
Article 13 - The investor shall be exempt from paying product tax
on new imported or locally purchased equipment, tools and capital goods.
This exemption shall also apply to principal contractors and subcontractors
working for the investor.
Such exemption shall be authorized either directly for the investor
or his principal contractors or subcontractors working for the investor.
In this case, this contractor shall deduct the exempted amount from
the rent due to be paid by the concerned contractor or his principal
contractors or subcontractors.
Article 14 - An investor may enjoy the exemption from import duties
levied on new equipment, tools or capital goods if the investment plan is
pertinent to specialized (technical or vocational) education.
Article 15 - Any person paying import duties or product tax in
connection with rhe importation or acquisition of new equipment, tools or
capital goods shall be entitled to recover such duties and taxes in
accordance with the rules set by the competent authority.
Article 16 - All imported goods and products used to prGduce
locally manufactured equipment, tools and capital goods all or part of which
is included in the investment plan for which a compliance certificate has
been issued, shall also benefit from the exeraption and recovery privileges
stipulated in Articles 13, 14 and 15, above.
Article 17 - The new equipment, tools and capital goods imported or
acquired through the principal contractors, subcontractors or the credit and
rent contractors of an investor who is defined in Article 1 above shall be
exempted from import duties and product taxes.



- 133 -                    Annex I
Page 5 of 9
Article 18 - The competent authority may not deliver a compliance
certificate if investment plans in any way require the acquisition of used
equipment, tools or capital goods, or items which have previously utilized
the benefits of this Law.
Article 19 - No equipment, tools or capital goods benefitting from
the exemptions specified in this Chapter may be sold, transferred or used
for other than the purposes for which they were imported or acquired, within
five years from the starting date of investment, without the explicit
permission of the competent authority.  However. such permission may be
granted if such planned sale, transfer or use contributes to the improvement
of education, or in the case of a force majeure.
The investor who benefits from the exemptions specified in the
first paragraph above may be put during the period indicated in the same
paragraph under observation to be conducted by officials assigned the task
by the competent authority.
Article 20 - Any violation of the provisions of this Chapter or any
fraud resulting or could result in obtaining unduly exemptions, such as
false statements concerning the number, characteristics and purposes of the
exempted equipment, forging of documents used as evidence, or the unlawful
use of equipment or their use in purposes other than those specified, shall
be treated as violations of custom duties, and the violater shall be subject
to a fine equaling five times the exempted amount.
Accomplices shall be subject to the sai-e penalties imposed on the
principal violators.
In addition to the above, the competent authority may deprive the
violator, on a temporary or permanent basis, of the exemptions prescribed in
this Chapter.
The officials of the Customs Duties and Indirect Taxes Department,
or if necessary, any other officials approved by the competent authority for
this purpose, shall bear the responsibility for presenting the evidence of
violation in accordance with the effective procedures in their respective
departments.
In all cases, the fines shall be treated as civil damages and shall
be distributed on the same basis as custom duties.



134 -             ~~~Annex I
- 134 -                    Page 6 of 9
Second Chapter
Rexistration and Stamps
Article 21 - The pro-rated fee imposed on the partnership share of
the investor who establishes or expands a private education institution or
who increases its capital.
The partnership share indicated in the previous paragraph may
benefit from the reduction of the imposed fees but noc from that specified
in Paragraph 3 of Article  93 of  the Registration Rules.  However,  the
partnership share shall be exempt from the additional fee under Paragraph 2
of the said article as well as from the title transfer fee concerning the
responsibility for liabilities, if necessary.
Article 22 - Legal persons shall be exempt upon incorporation from
stamp fees on securities according to Article 5 of Stamp Rules.
Article 23 - Purchase contracts of lands prepared by the investor
to accomplish an investment which is authorized to benefit from the
privileges prescribed in this Law shall be exempt from the registration fees
specified in Paragraph 1 of Article 96 of the Registration Rules.
To be entitled to the said exemption, the following conditions
should be met:
(a) The land purchase contract should state the purpose and the
commitment of the investor to use such land for this purpose within
a period not to exceed 12 months from  the contract registration
date, and the competent authority may extend this period in the
case of a force majeure.
(b) The investor should officially mortgage in the land purchase
contract or any supplementary contract the acquired land to the
state as a first or second class loan after the mortgage made in
the interest of the accredited lending institution, as a security
if the land is not designated for the specified purpose within the
indicated period.
The registration officer is not authorized to redeem the said
mortgage except after presenting the evidence that the land is designated
for the purpose for which it has been purchased, otherwise, the investor
should pay the registration fees and the fines prescribed in Article 96
(Paragraphs 4b and 2d) of the Registration Rules.
The mortgage institution and redemption contracts shall be exempt
from the registration and title deed fees.



- 135 -                    Annex I
Page 7 of 9
Third Chapter
Patent Tax
Article 24 - The investor shall be exempt from the patent tax for:
(a)  the first ten years following the starting date of investment with
regard to the specialized (vocational or technical) education.
(b) the first five years following the start date of investment with
regard to the general education institutione.
The same exemptions shall apply on a pro-rated basis upon the
expansion of institutions by providing additional investment as follows:
-    general education:  five years.
-    specialized education:  (technical or vocational).
The remaining fiscal years of the first ten-year period following
the starting date of investment. However, this tax exemption shall not in
any case be less than five years.
Fourth Chapter
Professional Profit Tax
Article 25 - The investor shall be exempt from the professional
profit tax prescribed in Law No. 1/59/430 of December 31, 1959 for the first
five years following the starting date of investment with regard to the
specialized education (technical or vocational) institutions.
The same exemption shall apply to all new investments designed to
expand a specialized education (technical or vocational) institution.
Article 26 - The investor who shall be exempted from the
professional profit tax shall remain subject to the obligat3ons and
observation prescribed in Law No. 1/59/430 of December 31, 1959 referred to
above.



Annex I
-136 -                     Page 8 of 9
Fifth Proiect
Transfer of Profits
Article 27 - The transfer of profitc after tax which are
distributed among non-resident investors shall be guaranteed without any
limitation as to amounts or duration, if the investment is accomplished by a
foreigner who benefitted from the guarantee of the re-transfer of real
revenue resulting from the sale:
-    of  a  partnership  share  of  capital  paid  through  the  sale  of
convertible currencies to the interest of the Bank of Morocco.
-    of a partnership share paid through deductions from the accounts of
"capital" invested during a period not less than five years.
-    the net surplus resulting from the sale.
Sixth Chapter
Reimbursement of a Part of Interest
Article 28 - The investor shall benefit upon the establishment or
the expansion of a prrivate education institution from a reimbursement of
part of the said interest as follows:
-    Four points with regard to specialized (technical or vocational)
education institutions.
-    Two points with regard to general education institutions.
These rates shall be directly deducted from the interest rates on
loans offered to the investor by lending institutions approved for this
purpose by the competent authority to finance his investment plan.
The Government shall pay the reimbursed part of interest and the
competent authority shall specify the conditions qualifying for such benefit.



Annex I
- 137 -                     Page 9 of 9
Seventh Chapter
Article 29 - In financing investment plans, an investor may obtain
loans from a lending institution to be approved by the competent authorities.
Article 30 - An agreement between the Government and the lending
institution shall prescribe the conditions under which this institution
shall offer and control its loans.  If a loan installment is not paid when
it becomes due, an interest shall be imposed at the applicable rate in the
institution's by-laws, and the collection of the amounts in arrers shall be
collected in accordance with the institution's regulations.
Doc 2789V



- 138 -                      Annex J
Page i of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Program File
A.  Reports and Studies on the Education Sector
1. Kingdom of Morocco, Education and Training Sector Survey (IBRD Gray
Cover Sector Survey Report in Six Volumes; Report Number 4105-NOR;
June 10, 1983).
2.  Kingdom of Morocco, Education Special Study:  Volume I-Investment Costs
of Primary Schools; Volume II--Non-Teaching Staff in Secondary Schools
(IBRD Yellow Cover Special Study; Report Number 5508-MOR; February 22,
1985).
B. Documents Relating to the Reform Program
1.  MOE Table of University Fellowship Eligibility by Household Income and
Family Size.
2.  L'Enseignement   Superieur   Universitaire   au   Maroc:    Les   Etudes
Universitaires des ler et 2eme Cycles (Ministere de 1'Education
Nationale, Division de la Reglementation et Equivalence de Dipl5mes,
31 decembre 1983).
3. MOE Decree Number 1054.83 of September 5, 1983 on Class Repetition
Policy for Primary and Secondary Schooling.
4.  MOE List of Specializations Qualifying for Foreign Fellowships, 1984/85
and 1985/86.
5.  Bulletin Officiel  Legislation  of  September  7,  1983  Establishing New
Boarding Stipends for Secondary Schooling.
C. Working Papers Relating to the Reform Program
1. Projection of Enrollments, Facilities and Staff Requirements, and
Education Costs with and without the Proposed Reform Program.
2. MOE Summary of Primary School Construction Program for Selected
Provinces for the Period 1981-85.
3. MOE 1985 Budgetary Credits for Primary School Construction (urban areas,
masonry construction).
4.  Cahier  des  Prescriptions   Communes   Applicables   aux   Marches   des
Constru:tions Scolaires (8 volumes; MPW instructions on contract award
and supervision procedures for secondary school construction).



- 139 -                     Annex J
Page 2 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMT LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Program File
4.  Architectural Worksheets for Prototype Primary, Lower Secondary, Upper
Secondary Schools According to Agreed Reform Program Norms.
5.  Constructions  Scolaires  de  l'Enseignement  Secondaire:   Receuil  des
Normes Mis a Jour pour l'Execution du Programme 1983 (M1'W listing of
prevailing norms for secondary school construction).
6. Terms of Reference for Phase I Studies to Develop New Educational
Activities.
Doc 2789V



POflhIGALJ SPAIN,$       ITALVV ?
PAN,'L lAYp                         MOROC-CO
A r[A -  C                      3.  .                  3
_ * /  RobbotiErUNI           flwa-                           Moin roads '
- MOROCCo0                 *5                                              Secondory-roods:.-
-.      ;        r' ALGERIA  I            - ARsAB
OCEAN    r                           LIBYA    [REP' OF                     Tracis
OI  /r~>      EGYmT  -    | Railways      -
{   f         l         -         _      I_ _A                       Airports
I                    .L    ~~~~~~~ ~~PortsSak
MALI      NIGER t                              ---      Rivers
t~~AJPJaA~~~ \  - ~SUDAN
¶ffii3 5\OUINEAJ!v          NIGERIA  M1    4                     ,>     / Moaor irrigatio perimeters                             c
MADDEIRA Pwta                          400 millimeter rainfall line -osoblonc
_~                     - -- _  Elevations above 1000 meters
bdatYe tru'               -@-Internationl bOUdonies                         DOU
Internation  boLndarles (approximate)
.32'                                                                       Indicates the territory of the former  s
- - -- Spanish Sahara (WestemnSahara)
Ago. -  ,                     -
z~ ,*TI  rC   O C EAN~{ 
-'~ ~~ ~~~' '    :-   1aoqjt<  Tot.
CANARY ISLANDS
La Pa4w Teiwrife
C   A  NARY 5tA    . =,                                           T.
t,~ ~ _               ueRerrerve aturulo§J
26~~, Gwsw                                                           !  
Gal to, Z..,ou.                     a -~ '.
IN~~~~~~~~~~~N
-2e@                                     /                             ,         
Ad-Dsakhlo;                         
)                    l   S~~~~~~FSDer-c&
b       Gijoeo{Nouadlhbou 1^.                 ;bnFaA,,     1A                                      N



IBRD 15252R2
ROCCO                                                                   - 'AIN
reo i. e - r a nran         a5e
main roads                                                                                                                      Motgc7    .
Secondary roads
Track:                                                                                                   'OUKK    >< zIFg  At :\ ArnT.-moe-8- ' mE1 ..ci...................iC........... I$7
Airports
Ports                                                                d.,                                                     Ir,er         .ad
Rivers
Salt lakes                                                  R       A                                             , 
2pjor *rriqgation perimeters                        rh -TedI
CO43  millimeter rainfall line               Cosobla.ncod",                                                                             Lo-.,
Elevations above 1,000 meters             El idjad.m ,
!n.'ernaihonal boundaries
!=tnctiont boundaries (approsimote) -_
Indicates the territory of the formrer            f            ., ;      iCarb,,T.dla
Spanish Sahara (Western Sahara) '
Essacu.'tt                    A~~~~~rADLA~/// ~            
A/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ gc
) ( ,-irt:llm T. - - - r { 4 t , - 
71<
Agod_,-, ..'/'
IN>;                                                -  IX   .~   !
T-z    - .        , -
.\...yj.,                                    ..
..~ ,-  --  -                                                             ---
_I                                                                      . .                              N,
'\~ .         'N  N.\
I~~~~                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ .                             . .4.
i                       !                         \~~~~~~N
, -~~~~~~ I                                                                                                                         2
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ AC   1986E



