Documet Of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
AZW. 2( -A0r
Rupee rN. P-4240-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPO SED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$15O MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IN SUPPORT OF AN
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
February 25, 1986
deu mts he a raicd disaikbe ad may be ad by zedpi. eony in the perfenumme of
Sad  dslm. lb cab my mea eEhwlu be dbduee wied_ WedM Bak a__wkala.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENIS
Average
Calendar 1985         January 15, 1986
Currency Unit          -   Dirhams(DH)
I Dirham (DH)         =   US$                          0.1053
1 US Dollar (US$)    =   DH                            9.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MEA  -  Ministry of Economic Affairs
MOE  -  Ministry of Education
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOL  -  Ministry of Labor
MOP  -  Ministry of Planning
MPW  -  Ministry of Public Works and Vocational Training



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:                US$150 million equivalent.
Terms:                 20 years including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Proiect Description:  The proposed project would form part of a two-year phase
of implementation of the Government's education sector
reform program.   The objectives of the reform program
are to make the provision of education more equitable,
more cost-effective, and more consistent with the
country's medium-term development needs.  At  the  same
time, the Government is developing and implementing a
number of pedagogical measures to ensure that the
quality of education is maintained or improved and that
the coverage of the system is extended, even as unit
costs of education are reduced. More specifically, the
project  would  assist   the  Borrower   in   improving:
a) equity of education by devoting a larger share of
education resources to primary and lower secondary
education,  with  a  major  increase  in  the  number  of
students entering and completing basic schooling (grades
1 through 9); b) the efficiency of Morocco's education
system;   and   c) containing   the   growth  of   public
expenditures  on  education.   The  Project  includes  a
program  of  construction  and  equipping  of  schools,
teacher training, foreign fellowships and studies in
support of new educational activities.   Implementation
risks relate to uncertainties of public acceptance of
reform program measures, and to the risk of incomplete
implementation.   These  risks  have  been  reduced  by
Government efforts to situate the reform in the context
of restructuring in other areas, to put in place an
appropriate structure for overseeing initial reform
implementation, to plan implementation of subsequent
reform actions and to take key actions in the reform
program prior to negotiating the loan.
[ This document has a restrctod distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance
of their official dutie.ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World DBnk authorizaton.



- ii-
Estimated
Project Costs:
Millions of
Current US$
Category of Expenditure  Local  Foreign  Total
Investment *
Scho6l Construction        241     155      396
Equipment and Furniture    15       45       60
Subtotal                 256     200      456
Recurrent
Salaries and Benefits   1,123       -    1,123
Fellowships                133      32      165
Educational Materials       42      18       60
School Maintenance          25      -        25
Subtotal               1.323      50   1,373
TOTAL PHASE I COSTS      1,579     250   1.829
Financing Plan:           Financing Source         Local  Fcreign   Total
Government               1,579      86   1,665
IBRD                         0     164      164
of which:
proposed reform loan      (0)   (150)   (150)
4th, 5th education
projects                  (0)    (14)    (14)
TOTAL                    1,579     250   1,829
Estimated
Disbursements:            Bank Fiscal Year        1986      1987     1988      1989
Annual                  36.5     64.5      44.0      5.0
Cumulative              36.5    101.0    145.0    150.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report no. 5923-MOR dated February 25, 1986.
Map:                      Kingdom of Morocco IBRD 15252R2.
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
*   Includes  an  inseparable  element  of  indirect   taxes  amounting   to
approximately 15% of civil work costs, and approximately 15Z of local
component of equipment a-Ad furniture.



TERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IN SUPPORT OF AN EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$150.0 million, to support a
two-year phase of implementation of an education sector reform program and
help finance certain activities under the program. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMYL'
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued an June 15, 1983. Another
econom..c report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
(No. 4893-MOR) was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economic
mission on financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its
report (No. 4957-MOR) was issued on December 12, 1984. The following section
reflects the findings of an economic updating mission that went to Morocco in
July 1984 to prepare a paper, entitled "Morocco: Medium-term Adjustment
Policies and Prospects", for presentation to a meeting of the Consultative
Group for Morocco in Paris on January 9-11, 1985. Data and analysis have been
updated to reflect the findings of the ITPA II appraisal mission that visited
Morocco in March 1985.  Country data are given in Annex I.
3.       During  nearly  two  decades  after  Independence  in  1956,  Morocco
followed  relatively  conservative   economic  policies.    Cautious  external
borrowings supplemented a weak savings effort to permit only a slow rise in
investment, so that the economy grew only at about 4 percent per annum.
Primary products - principally phosphates - accounted for 90 percent of
merchandise  exports.   During  the  mid-1970s,  after  a  sudden  increase  in
phosphate prices, Morocco launched an ambitious public investment program
which boosted GDP growth to 7.5 percent annually during the period 1973-77.
The phosphate boom, however, began subsiding as early as mid-1975. Meanwhile,
the petroleum import bill, which had quadrupled in 1974, continued to place
considerable pressure on the balance of payments, and the current account
deficit reached 16.5 percent of GDP in 1977. Domestically, the large public
investment program and increased defense expenditures in the Western Sahara
caused the treasury deficit to rise to 15.8 percent of GDP in 1977. Morocco
resorted to considerable foreign borrowings to finance these deficits.
I/ Part I is essentially the same as Part I in the Casablanca Port Project
(Report No. P-4226-MOR of February 3. 1986)



4.      To  redress  the  rapidly  deteriorating  financial  situation,  the
Moroccan Government  introduced  a  three-year  stabilization program in 1978
centered on reductions in public sector outlays and stricter import controls.
These reforms were only partially successful. They did little to stimulate
exports.  The  exchange  rate was  kept  overvalued  and  trade barriers were
raised. They did not adequately tackle the excessive budgetary exposure and
made inadequate attempts to increase  the efficiency of resource use.  The
agricultural sector failed to grow, while value-added in manufacturing
declined.  Meanwhile,  public  investment  was not  restrained;  a  number  of
costly, poorly-targeted social programs were expanded and investment in
infrastructure was undertaken often well ahead of need. Efforts to stabilize
the economy were compromised by severe external shocks - most notably the 1979
oil  price  increase,   the  rise  in  international   interest  rates,   the
international recession which reduced phosphate earnings and workers'
remittances,  and  the  prolonged  drought.   Continued  internal  pressure  to
provide social services and affordable basic foodstuffs to a rapidly growing
population put considerable strains on a budget already stretched by the need
to finance expenditures in the Sahara. The 1981-85 Development Plan aimed at
an ambitious 6.5 percent per annum growth rate in GDP. Notwithstanding the
difficulties confronting the economy, Morocco did not appear willing to
introduce a comprehensive program of policy measures which could have
confronted  the  economic  crisis.    The  shortcomings  in  the  adjustment
performance caused the IMF to convert a three-year EFF into a one-year Stand
By Arrangement in 1982 and prevented the Bank from proceeding with a SAL at
that time.
Reeent Fconomic Developments
5.      By 1983 it had become clear that the Government's room to maneuver
was becoming very restricted by debt service payment requirements.  In 1982
external public long-term debt (excluding military debt) had risen to about
two-thirds of GDP and 235 percent of exports of goods and services while the
debt service ratio  reached  35  percent.  Morocco  was confronted with  the
prospect of a very  large external payments gap for 1983.  With exchange
reserves virtually depleted and debt service rising, the Government imposed
emergency import controls and budgetary cutbacks in early 1983. In November
1983 the Government entered into an 18-month standby agreement with the IMF
(SDR 300 million, or 98 percent of quota) supporting a stabilization program
which included fiscal and credit restraints and a flexible exchange rate
policy. Shortly thereafter, official creditors agreed to reschedule external
debt interest and principal payments coming due between September 1, 1983 and
December 1984, as well as arrears as of August 31, 1983. Commercial bank
creditors agreed in principle to provide comparable relief on amortization.
The total amount of debt relief obtained in 1983-84 under these agreements was
estimated at more than $2 billion (including $575 million of relief on
military debt).  In November 1983, a Donors' meeting sponsored by the IMF,
generated pledges of about $500 million of exceptional balance-of-payments
assistance for 1983-84. To meet its fiscal targets the Government restricted
public service recruitment and salary increases, raised the prices of
electricity, water, petroleum products and subsidized foodstuffs (by between



- 3 -
17 percent and 60 percent), and cut capital outlays by one third. At the same
time, it began a significant adjustment effort supported by the Bank program,
along with the January 1984 ITPA I (No. P-3707-MOR), to improve its balance of
payments situation with a package of measures to restructure its trade
regime. This included a reduction in import taxation, an easing of
quantitative restrictions, and a reduction in export licensing. Following a
Financial Sector Study conducted by the Bank in 1984 (No. 4957-MOR), the
Government extended these reforms to the Financial Sector with the objective
of raising domestic  resources  and  improving  resource  allocation.  Greater
flexibility was introduced in setting interest rates, measures were designed
to increase competition among banks, and taxation reforms to benefit the
financial sector were implemented.
6.       As a  result  of  the  policies  adopted  since  1983, macroeconomic
balances improved. The economy's resource gap shrank from 13 percent of GDP
in 1982 to 8 percent in 1984 (at constant 1980 prices). This was achieved
through a significant decline in the GDP share of consumption and investment
relative to their high levels earlier in the 1980s. Meanwhile, import growth
has been restrained by appropriate demand management and by the depreciation
of the exchange rate, while the share of exports and gross domestic savings
increased substantially. The Government budget deficit was reduced from 12
percent of GDP in 1982 to about 7 percent in 1984 (8 percent before taking
into account the impact of external debt rescheduling on interest payments).
Although the improvement stemmed chiefly from a sharp reduction in investment
outlays, there was also a significant slowing down in the rate of growth of
current expenditures. As was to be expected, the rate of GDP growth has been
low (a little over 2 percent p.a.), reflecting the impact of stabilization
policies on consumption and investment demand, along with the effect of
drought on agricultural sector incomes in both 1983 and 1984. A good harvest
is expected to help boost the growth rate to about 4 percent in 1985.
7.       The current account of the balance of payments improved considerably,
reflecting both the better resource balance of the economy and the impact of
the debt relief obtained by Morocco from its official creditors on interest
and military debt service payments. In 1983, the external current account
deficit was reduced by half, from $1.9 billion and 12.7 percent of GDP in 1982
to $873 million and 6.6 percent of GDP. The balance subsequently worsened in
1984, particularly in relation to GDP, but still remained under $1 billion.
In both 1983 and 1984, about half of the roughly $1 billion improvement in the
current account in relation to 1982 was attributable to debt relief. - -'  The
net inflow of public medium and long-term capital (including grants) has
declined sharply from about $1.5 billion in 1982 to an average of only $400
million during 1983-1984. In 1985, the net inflow rose to about $1 billion,
including an exceptional $300 million grant from Saudi Arabia. Nevertheless,
these inflows had to be supplemented by continued debt relief along the lines
of the 1983-84 debt rescheduling, and demand management policies to keep
import growth under control.
1/ Over $200 million in interest payments were rescheduled in each of the two
years.  In addition, the current account balance benefitted from military
debt relief in the amount of $325 million in 1983 and $250 million in 1984.



-4-
8.       Further progress in reducing both external and fiscal imbalances is
envisaged under a new stand-by arrangement with the IMF approved on
September 13,  1985.   Preliminary  data  indicate  some  slippage  in  fiscal
performance in the first half of 1985 and disappointing results on external
trade, attributed essentially to weak demand in the phosphate market. These
suggest that stronger corrective measures would be needed to keep the
stabilization program on course including, in particular, restraining current
expenditures and reducing subsidies on foodstuffs and  public  services.   A
formal debt  rescheduling  through  the  Paris  Club  covering maturities from
September 1985 to February 1987 was agreed on September 17, 1985. Ninety-five
percent of the total debt due were rescheduled along lines similar to those
obtained under the 1983-84 debt relief arrangement. The 1983-84 rescheduling
agreement between Morocco and  the commercial banks was signed, after long
delays, on October 21, 1985.  These recent developments should help Morocco
reach a balance in its external accounts for the next two years.
Medium Term Policies and Prospects
9.       Since 1983, the Government's objective of achieving viable external
and fiscal positions along with satisfactory growth has been translated into a
coherent medium-term strategy to restrain domestic absorption and increase the
efficiency of resource throughout  the economy.   The principal  elements  of
Morocco's medium-term adjustment program involve a shift to outward-looking
trade and exchange rate policies; far-reaching reforms of price, credit, tax
and regulatory policies to remove institutional and other obstacles to
efficient mobilization and use of resources in key productive sectors of the
economy; considerable improvements in the efficiency of government investment;
more cost-effective methods and better targetting of social programs; and a
thorough overhaul of the public enterprise sector.
10.      The  shift  to  an  outward-oriented  development  strategy  is  the
cornerstone   of   Morocco's   medium-term   adjustment   program.    Continued
adjustments in trade and exchange rate policies will be made to complete the
reform of the overall incentive framework designed to accelerate export growth
and reduce and rationalize import protection. Key instruments are to be a
flexible exchange rate, the elimination of the special import tax (expected by
January 1987); a general reform of the tariff level and structure, with the
objective of reducing the overall level of protection to 25 percent through
decreasing maxiumum duty rates and evening out the spread in tariff rates
within and between sectors; and finally, a phasing out of quantitative
restrictions on imports. Domestic price controls, which were already removed
in 1983-84 on many manufactured products, are planned to be fully eliminated,
in  parallel  with  progress  in  import  liberalization.   Remaining  export
licensing requirements will be abolished, with exporters to be entitled to
import all inputs on a duty-free basis.
11.     At  the  same  time,  appropriate  sector  strategies  for  the  key
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, will be promoted.
In industry, although 'the development of Morocco's potential for export of
phosphate fertilizers will continue to be an important objective, the



- 5 -
contribution of this highly capital-intensive sector to employment and to the
establishment of a broader industrial base through forward and backward
linkages will  remain  limited.   Moreover,  a  high degree  of  dependence  on
phosphate and phosphate fertilizer exports has made Morocco extremely
vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations in the volatile world phosphate market.
For this reason, the industrial strategy must be based on the diversification
of  manufactured  exports,  including  processed  foods  and  nontraditional
manufactures where Morocco may have a comparative advantage on world markets.
In agriculture, Morocco needs to continue developing an appropriate package of
policies designed to overcome existing constraints to rational land use
patterns, to ensure that farmers have adequate incentives to improve farming
techniques and use modern inputs, and to provide the support services needed
to bring about these changes.   A first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(No. P-4032-MOR) in line with such policy direction was extended by the Bank
in June 1985.
12.     The low productivity of investment has been one of the major factors
in the poor performance of the Moroccan economy in the past ten years.  The
allocation of capital and the efficiency of investment need to be improved
considerably both in the public and in the private sector.  In the private
sector, the reform of the protection framework described above should gc a
long way towards removing distortions in investment  patterns.   However,  it
will also be necessary  to review  the bias in favor of capital-intensive
activities inherent in the current investment incentive system, including tax
exemptions and interest rate subsidies which artificially depress the cost of
capital. In the publ;c sector, increasing the efficiency of investment will
require a considerable improvement of existing planning and budgeting
mechanisms, including better procedures for setting investment priorities,
strengthening of project preparation and monitoring capability, and placing
more emphasis on the economic evaluation of projects before they receive
Goveroment sanction.   Policy actions to improve the public investment and
enterprise framework as well as continuing reform of trade policy and a
comprehensive approach to financial sector reform are supported by ,.he Bank's
second Ijidustrial and Trade Policy Adjustment loan approved in July 1985.
13.     An exceptionally strong savings effort will be essential  for  the
success of Morocco's  adjustment process.   In the private sector financial
savings have been repressed in the past due to inadequate financial policies
and negative real interest rates. Savings are now being encouraged through
increases in deposit rates and a  program  of financial sector  reforms  to
improve financial intermediation and develop the domestic money and capital
markets. But the most intense savings efforts in the next few years will have
to take place in the public sector, which continues to be a major source of
dissaving, particularly through the Government budget.  In the medium term,
sustained improvement in the mobilization and utilization of resources by the
public sector will require fundamental reforms in a number of key areas,
including social expenditure policies, taxation, and cost recovery and
efficiency in the public enterprise sector.   In the social sectors, where
coverage of the Dopulation is still inadequate, Government activities need to
be restructured so that basic services (particularly education and health) can



-6-
be  delivered  more  effectively  but  at  substantially  lower  cost.   More
cost-effective methods and better targeting will be prerequisites to a further
broadening  of  access  to  these  services  in  the future.   Food and other
subsidies also need to be targeted to the groups most in need rather than
directed to the general population.
14.     Macroeconomic projections based on the Government's reform programs
indicate that it may take the better part of the next ten years for Morocco to
complete its adjustment process and become fully creditworthy. The growth of
the economy is likely to be severely constrained in the early years of the
adjustment  process.   However,  as  the  restructuring  measures  designed  to
promote exports, improve resource use and increase domestic savings begin to
work their effects through the economy, the external imbalance should lessen,
and restraints on domestic demand could gradually be relaxed. Moreover, the
growth of external demand expected to result from the trade liberalization and
export promotion policies, and the switch in the composition of domestic
demand from imported to domestic goods, fostered by the adjustment of relative
prices, should help mitigate the temporary negative impact of slower public
expenditure growth on incomes and employment.
15.     The projections  suggest  that GDP growth is likely to remain low
(below 3 percent p.a.) until 1990, accelerating thereafter.  Domestic demand
is expected to grow very slowly until 1990, reflecting the impact of
stabilization policies on both investment and consumption.  Investment, which
has been declining since 1978, should continue to fall in real terms and in
relation to GDP until about 1987, then rise somewhat until 1990, recovering
strongly thereafter. Assuming that central government investment expenditures
would remain constant in real terms in the medium term, the adjustments would
occur primarily in  the public enterpises and private sectors.  Government
consumption, which had grown very rapidly until recently, is projected to
decline marginally in real terms and to drop by 3 percentage points in
relation to GDP between 1985 and 1990.  The growth of private consumption,
which already slowed significantly in the early 1980s, would remain just below
that of GDP in 1985-90, and accelerate only slightly in the 1990s.
Restructuring policies should bring about an acceleration in the growth of
exports of goods and nonfactor services. The acceleration of export growth
would help sustain a modest recovery of imports, the overall trend of which
has been downward since 1978. Imports, however, should rise much more slowly
than exports between 1985 and 1990, as a result of the demand restraint and
expenditure switching policies.
16.     As a result of the drop in the GDP share of both investment and
consumption, there should be a steady decline in the economy's resource ga:,_
with a small surplus projected for 1990. Gross domestic savings are expected
to rise much faster than GDP throughout the period, initially as a result of
improved savings mobilization by the public sector, and later reflecting
continued substantial improvements in private savings as well. The marginal
savings rate with respect to GNP will need to be very high (about 50 percent)
in 1985-90, as a necessary concomitant to reducing the external deficit; it
should slacken slightly thereafter. High domestic savings should enable the



-7-
economy to finance the recovery of investment without recourse to external
savings in the early 1990s.  This will be essential,  since,  throughout the
remainder of the 1980s, the balance of payments will remain under considerable
pressure because of continuing high debt service payments. By the end of the
decade, reforms of the overall economic incentive framework and increased
efficiency of public investment should have raised the productivity of new
investment considerably, and the ICOR should drop substantially from the high
levels prevailing in the early 1980s.
17.      It  is  important  to  recognize  that  the  implementation  of  the
stabilization policies and measures for structural adjustment envisaged in
this scenario will entail some transitional social costs.  With population
growth at about 2.5 percent p.a., GNP and consumption per capita, which have
been essentially stagnant since 1980, are not likely to show much improvement
in real terms until the end of the present decade. Stabilization policies and
measures to increase efficiency will initially be reflected to some extent in
depressed domestic demand, increased unemployment, and some decline in real
incomes, particularly the real income of urban populations, Government
employees, and workers in less competitive industries. On the other hand, the
real income of farmers, who constitute by far the poorest segment of the
population, should rise as a result of increases in agricultural producer
prices and improvements in support services and marketing institutions and
infrastructure. This will be particularly true of farmers in rainfed areas.
The political and social implications of these welfare shifts are likely to be
significant, and to keep them manageable will be a major concern of the
Government in the next few years.  While the cost of not undertaking the
required economic adjustments would in any case be greater in the long run, it
will be important to minimize the negative short-term impact of these
adjustments on the poorest groups. After 1990, as a result of the reforms
undertaken in the 1980s, the economy could return gradually to a higher growth
path without endangering external equilibrium. Per capita levels of income
and consumptio- could begin to rise again, and the restoration of economic
dynamism would greatly improve Morocco's ability to deal with its serious
unemployment problem.
18.     A steady improvement in Morocco's external payments position should
result from the acceleration of export growth relative to import growth
anticipated  in  1985-90.   The  economy's  negative  resource  balance,  which
averaged more than $2 billion in 1980-82, and dropped to $1.2-1.3 billion in
1983-84, is projected to decline steadily, and virtually disappear by 1989.
Assuming that the growth of workers' remittances can be sustained at a modest
pace, the current account should improve roughly in parallel with the overall
resource balance and could reach approximate equilibrium around 1989.
Nowever, the overall balance of payments can be expected to continue to show
large deficits because of the heavy principal repayments coming due on the
external debt, including substantial repayments  to  the  IMF.   Because  of
mounting debt service obligations, gross public long-term capital requirements
are projected to average close to USt2.5 billion annually during the period
1985-90.



- 8 -
19.      It is clear, under these circumstances, that Morocco will-continue to
require debt  relief  for several  more years.  The projections include the
effects of the recently concluded 1985-87 debt rescheduling agreement through
the Paris Club, and assume debt relief from private creditors during 1985-87,
essentially  along  the  lines  of  the  debt  reschedulings  obtained  in
1983-84.1-'   Normal   public   long-term  capital   inflows   could  then  be
approximately sufficient to cover the remaining financing requirements in
1985-87 (about US$1.2 billion annually), assuming that new loan commitments
from Morocco's official lenders can be maintained at their current rate (about
US$800 million a year).  Recourse to commercial bank financing, outside of
these guaranteed programs, is likely to remain constrained and overall private
capital flows are expected to remain sporadic, at US$100-300 million
per annum, probably strongly conditioned on, if not directly tied to, specific
adjustment programs.
20.      For the years 1988-1991, Morocco is going to need around US$2 billion
annually to meet its capital requirements. Providing that US$800-900 million
a year are forthcoming from official creditors; and assuming a reasonable
recovery of private source financing of about US$700 million a year, around
US$400 million still remain to be generated each year to cover the gap. With
Bank and IMF transfers stretched to the limit, Morocco's remaining firLncing
requirements will have to come in the form of further debt relief, grants, or
some concessional assistance.  Only beginning in 1992, with debt repayments
from past borrowings and successive reschedulings starting to level off, could
equilibrium in the overall balance of payments appear assured on the basis of
normal official capital inflows and a sustainable recourse to private
financing.  If the envisaged external capital flows do not materialize, the
Government will have to resort to severe corrective measures to finance its
resource gap.
21.      In view of the continuing large capital inflows required in the next
few years, the long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed would
continue to rise rapidly until 1988, but would begin to stabilize thereafter.
The ratio of debt outstanding and disbursed to exports of goods and services,
which had risen to 260 percent in 1984, would start to decline, progressively
dropping to 175 percent by 1990 and 114 percent by 1995.  In the absence of
debt rescheduling, the long-term debt service ratio would have risen above
50 percent of exports of goods and services  in 1985 and 1986.  With debt
relief obtained for the period 1985-87, on the other hand, the debt service
ratio could be kept manageable at 24-25 percent during the next few years.
Assuming no further debt relief, it would rise sharply in 1988, with
repayments on the 1983-84 rescheduled maturities (including military debt)
falling due, but would then start declining gradually in the 1990s.   Given
this difficult debt situation, Morocco's commitment to an aggressive program
of structural adjustment is essential for the country to be considered
creditworthy for continued Bank lending.   Bank exposure amounted to 11X of
total debt outstanding in 1985, and would increase to about 17 at the end of
the decade, with the current lending program.
1/ About US$230 million of military debt service payments coming due each
year until 1988 are assumed to be rescheduled along the same  lines as
other obligations.



-9-
PART H - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS Th MOROCCO JL'
22.      Bank lending to Morocco has supported 65 projects, financing a total
of $2,675.5 million (net of cancellations), of which $25 million from a Third
window loan. IDA credits, totalling $45.2 million, have been made available
for  five  projects.   IFC  investments  have  amounted  to  $104.7  million
($59.9 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales).
Annex II contains a sunmmary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and of
IFC investments, as of September 30, 1985.
23.      Until   recently,   performance   in   project   execution   has   been
satisfactory overall, although in some cases management problems have caused
delays  in  project  implementation,  and  in  others   insufficient  tariff
adjustments have affected project entities' financial performance. However,
during 1983, as budgetary constraints became more severe, projects relying on
the Government budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously
delayed because of inadequate budgetary allocations. The appreciation of the
dollar vis-_-vis the dirbam in recent years has reduced considerably
reimbursable expenses in dollar terms, thus lowering disbursements vis-A-vis
appraisal  estimates.   The  ratio  of  disbursements  to  appraisal  estimates
averaged 43 percent as of September 30, 1985, low in comparison to other
countries in the region.
24.      The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investments  and  policy   reforms   aimed  at   structural  adjustment  and
strengthening the balance-of-payments; (b) measures to reduce the Treasury
deficit; and (c) efforts to redress poverty and improve income distribution,
particularly through lowering the unit costs for the delivery of basic
services, in order  to  increase access by  lower-income  groups.   Important
structural reforms must be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return
to a path of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external
payments position. A major objective of Bank economic and sector work is to
provide the analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for
structural reform, which in several cases is being supported by Bank lending.
At Government's request, in addition to ongoing work on the public investment
program, the Bank is assisting in developing reform proposals relating to the
public  enterprises.   Because  severe  budgetary  constraints  are  likely  to
persist over the medium-term, projects now under preparation or consideration,
like the proposed project, are timed and designed to be consistent with the
investment strategy which aims to minimize their reliance on incremental
budgetary funds and, if applicable, support Morocco's efforts to reform its
public enterprises.
1/ Part II is essentially the same as Part II in the Casablanca Port Project
(Report No. P-4226-MOR of February 3,1986).



- 10 -
25.     ARriculture  continues  to  represent  an  important  sector  in  Bank
lending  for  Morocco.   Past  Bank  lending  has  primarily  supported  rural
development and irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, in parallel with successful series of agricultural credit projects.
There are no major covenants in default.  Bank's operations in those fields
will continue at a pace consistent with the country's investment capacity
while paying special attention to maximizing non-budgetary financing and
improving cost recovery.   At present increased attention is being given to
agricultural support services at the national level, which are essential for
backstopping regional development projects. In parallel, the Bank has helped
the Moroccan authorities to review the sector policy framework and to
formulate its medium-term adjustment program covering investment strategy,
pricing and incentive policy and role of the public sector.   The recently
approved Agricultural Sector loan was in support of a first phase of such a
sector adjustment program and is expected to be followed by similar
operations, as further specific measures to adjust the prices and incentives
framework are developed.
26.      Energy  and  mining.   The  Government  has  given  high  priority  to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of domestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this
effort through loans for the exploration and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as well as for power generation and
transmission  and coal mining modernization and expansion.   Future projects
would assist in the development of domestic energy supplies, including gas,
and hydropower.   Through these projects as well as in our sectoral policy
dialogue, efficiency in energy development and use would be promoted through
attention to pricing, cost recovery and management issues.
27.      Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically competent agencies in the fields of road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and community infrastructure
finance, as well as to expand the provision of essential services.  Projects
like the recently approved Port project will place greater emphasis on
improving the productivity and efficiency of existing infrastructure through
improved financial and management performance. Mobilization of private and
non-budgetary financing as well as improved cost recovery in these subsectors
through tariffs should also help reduce the Treasury deficit. In addition to
continuing support for the above-mentioned subsectors, projects are under
preparation for railways, sewerage and telecommunications.
28.      Industrial  development  in Morocco has been supported in the past
through strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque
Nationale de Diveloppement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term credit.   In addition,  policy changes were  introduced  to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive industries.  Other projects
focused on phosphate processing and cement production. The Bank's efforts are
now focused on the development and implementation of medium-term policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improving incentives to domestic
production. The first phase of such reforms was supported by the Industrial



- 11 -
and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) loan of 1984 and was successfully
implenent.   Further  stages  of  reform  of  trade  policy,  as  well  as  a
comprehensive reform of the financial sector, and policy actions on public
investments and public enterprises are supported by the on-going Second
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan.
29.      Education, health and urban development projects will  increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-income
groups. Policy dialogue in these sectors continues to encourage the shift
away from capital-intensive investments benefitting limited clientele and the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services. While
previous Bank-financed projects have supported technical education, rural
primary education and improved  teacher training,  these are proposed to be
complemented by efforts to expand basic education and skill training, as well
as restructuring of the formal education system, which has represented a major
drain on the recurrent budget.  The recently approved first health development
project will test new health care delivery systems in order to improve basic
health services in rural areas. Finally, the experience of projects in urban
upgrading will be continued and expanded, with increased efforts to mobilize
private financing in order to reduce budgetary costs.
PART m - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
30.      Since Independence in 1956, the Moroccan Government has focused on
expanding the nation's educational capacity beyond what was essentially only
primary level (student ages 7 through 11) schooling. This effort has included
expanding physical capacity, increasing the proportion of Moroccan teachers,
and developing  new  curricula.   The  results  of  these  efforts  have  been,
i=nitially (1957-1966), an expansion of secondary education enrollments
(student ages 12 through 18), followed later by significant increases (152 per
year) in higher education enrollments between 1974 and 1984. Although in the
past the Government had neglected support of vocational training, since 1984
it has launched a program to emphasize and allocate adequate resources to
vocational training activities (for students over the age of 16) in order to
address skill shortages in the country's labor market.   The core of this
vocational training program is the 22 new vocational training centers and
mobile training units being firanced under the Bank's Vocational Training
project which was approved in November, 1984.
The Current oE&atiOn System
31.     Morocco's education system is almost entirely funded by the national
Government.  Private  schools  only  accommodate  less  than  4X  of Morocco's
students, at primary and secondary levels  of education.   The Ministry  of
Education (MOE) controls the policies and practices of general public
education in the country, and regulates the performance of private educational
institutions. The National Office of Vocational Training, created under the
Ministry of Labor, has become the major central vocational training agency.
It is now operating under the Ministry of Public Works and Vocational Training
(MN).



- 12 -
32.      The  Moroccan  education  system  is  designed  to  provide  general
education from primary through university levels, and the opportunity for
vocational training for those students not seeking university education.
General education is mandatory from age 7 through age 15 for all Moroccan
children, although as will be discussed in the next section, enrollments are
far from 100% of eligible children at the primary and secondary levels.
EnroUments in Primary and Secondary Schools
33.      As a percentage of the school-age population at each level, Moroccan
children for the school year 1983-84, are only enrolled at 57.3Z, 18.4S and
8.11 at the primary, lower secondary and upper secondary levels, respectively,
as presented in the table below:
Table 1
NET ENROLLMENT RATIOS BY LEVEL OF SCHOOLING
(1983/84)
(Public and Private School Enrollments,
Excluding Over-Age and Under-Age Students,
as a Percentage of School-Age Population at Each Level)
Male       Female      Total
Primary (grades 1-5, ages 7-11)                     69.0%        45.32     57.3%
Lower Secondary (grades 6-9, ages 12-15)            21.4%        15.3Z     18.4%
Upper Secondary (grades 10-12, ages 16-18)           9.4%         6.7S      8.12
SOURCE: Calculated from MOE enrollment data and IBRD population estimates.
NOTE: These are the latest figures from MOE. Annex I has not been updated
as yet to reflect these enrollment ratios.
As Table 1 illustrates, significant student dropout occurs between the primary
and lower secondary levels. Also, noteworthy disparities exist between male
and female enrollment at all levels. At the primary level, where fewer than
half primary school-age girls attend school, a further disparity exists
between girls in urban and rural environments. In rural areas girls account
for less than 291 of primary school enrollments.
34.      One cumulative result of Morocco's low enrollment levels in primary
and secondary schools is that 651 of the population over 10 years old was
reported illiterate in the country's 1982 census. Noteworthy also is the high
rate of illiteracy among adult females (78X) relative to males (511).
Current Isues in Moroceo's Education Sector
35.      The major sector issue is the need to improve the performance of the
sector in providing accessible education, while preserving the quality of



- 13-
education programs and while minimizing use of scarce budgetary resources.
Access of school-age children to the system is limited and the system is
relatively inefficient.   Overall, Government expenditures in education have
increased at a rapid pace, while inefficiency of the system in terms of
student flows and resource use has persisted. The MOE budget has quadrupled
during the past ten years, and increased from 12.52 of the central government
budget in 1975 to 21.5X in 1985.
36.      Inadequate school resources.  Inadequate school facility capacity has
restricted significantly the access of school-age children to primary and
secondary education, resulting in low enrollment levels. In addition, a lack
of female teachers in rural schools has aggravated the already considerable
reluctance of parents in these areas to send their girls to school,
particularly after the age of puberty. Although enough female teachers are in
training to address this need, a lack of suitable teacher housing in
comnmuities surrounding rural schools has constrained the placement of female
teachers in such schools.
37.     Inefficient schools.  Morocco has a serious problem of high drop out
rates and class repetition at all  levels of schooling.  The problem  is
particularly acute at the primary level where only 241 of students complete
the five year primary cycle in five years; 21X drop out before the fifth year,
and of those students who remain, most repeat at least three classes before
completing primary school. An average 8.6 years of schooling is required for
each graduate of the five year primary cycle. The highest repetition occurs
at the fifth primary year which 50X of students repeat (with an additional
drop out rate of 12X). This is the highest reported incidence of inefficiency
due to class repetition of any public school system.
38.     High repetition rates in primary school are attributable principally
to limited enrollment capacity in secondary schools, which restricts entry at
the secondary level to those students who score highest on the test
administered at the end of the fifth primary class year.  To increase the
likelihood that their children will score well on the test, parental
influences encourage holding children back in primary school, causing them to
repeat grades.   Excessive  repetition also occurs  at  the secondary school
level, particularly in grade 12 where the repetition rate is almost 30X.
39.     Class  repetition  and  dropout  rates  are  also  seriously  high  in
institutions of higher education. These phenomena at the university level are
more costly than similar inefficiencies at the primary and secondary levels
because unit recurrent and investment costs are much higher at the university
level than at primary and secondary levels.  The high incidence of  class
repetition and dropout at the university level results principally from the
absence of failure sanctions. Since students have historically been permitted
to repeat classes with full fellowships without restriction, motives for
improved student performance have been absent. University entrance policies
and curricula also contribute to the problem by admitting baccalaureat level
students without restriction but requiring proficiencies beyond the skill
levels of incoming students.



- 14 -
40.      Inappropriate  expansion  of  higher  education.   The  past  rapid
expansion of capacity in higher education is no longer justified. Morocco can
no longer absorb a high percentage of university graduates (particularly in
liberal arts and law, which constitute 75S of university enrollments) in its
employment market.  In the past, the upper levels of the Government's civil
service were able to absorb university graduates, but currently, the
Government's foreseeable recruitment needs are largely met for the medium-term.
41.      Other parts of the economy have needs for employees with specific
skill training. The current expansion of vocational training capacity which
is being supported by the Vocational Training Project (Ln. 2479-MOR, approved
in November 1984) is designed to meet the most conspicuous of these needs
particularly in industrial specializations. A study of medium-term manpower
needs is being carried out by the Ministry of Planning to identify priority
areas for future expansion of vocational training capacity. The micro-level
counterpart of this identification of aggregate manpower needs is the process
of feedback from employers to vocational training programs as to the relevance
and the quality of  training  programs  from  the users'  perspective.   This
process works effectively under the training programs of the National Office
of Vocational Training.
42.     The Government cannot afford the cost of a higher education system
growing at the pace it has in the past five years (19X per year for recurrent
expenditures). Given the high cost of university education relative to lower
levels of education (e.g. unit recurrent costs are 10 times as high as in
primary education), the Government, in the context of economic austerity, must
reduce the inefficiencies at this level of education and must restrict access
to higher education, which at present, is open to any secondary level
graduate. No student fees are collected to help cover the costs of the public
higher education system.
The Bank's Involvement in the Sector
43.      Bank  group  lending  to  Morocco's  education  sector  has  totalled
$207.5 million, in the form of two credits and three loans since 1965.  Over
the years Bank financing has supported parts of the sector the Government
agreed needed priority attention, from initial support of general education at
primary and secondary levels, to current support of the country's vocational
training activities. In recent years the policy dialogue in the sector has
focussed  on  assisting  the  Government  in  developing  a  coherent  and
comprehensive  program  of  structural  reforms  to  improve  the  efficiency,
financial viability and employment orientation of education at all levels.
44.     The  First  Education  Project  (Cr.  79-MOR)  provided  for  the
construction and equipping of 21 MOE secondary schools.   Except for three
schools which were deleted from the project as a result of the Government's
decision not to maintain MOE vocational education, the project was completed
in June 1975.  The Second Education Project (Cr.  266-MOR) provided strong
support for teacher training through the establishment of 7 teacher training
institutes and a national pedagogical institute, and the qualitative
improvement of science and technical teaching through the provision of science



- 15 -
laboratories for 6 general secondary schools, and equipment for 23 technical
secondary schools.   Construction and equipment were also provided  for two
vocational training centers and for extensions to both a forestry and an
agronomy training institute. Except for the two vocational training centers
and the extension to the forestry training institute, which were subsequently
deleted from the project at the Government's request, the project was
completed in 1979.   The Third  Education Project (Ln.1220-T-MOR) supported
basic education by providing 47 innovative rural primary schools, 5 general
secondary schools, 1 secondary teacher training institute, and assistance to
the MOE in developing a more practical curriculum for primary and secondary
schools.  It also supported manpower training in priority areas by financing
four hotel training centers under the Ministry of Tourism, one rural
development center under the Ministry of Agriculture, and four paramedical
training centers under the Ministry of Health.  The Loan account closed in
1983. Although some of the components implemented by ministries other than
the MOE were deleted because of implementation delays, all but two of the
project  institutions  were  completed.   The  Fourth  Education  Project  (Ln.
1681-MOR) provides major support to the MOE in strengthening secondary and
post-secondary technical education. The project is financing the construction
and equipping of 11 technical secondary schools and 5 post-secondary technical
institutions:   2  Higher  Institutes  of  Technology,  a  College  of  Applied
Engineering, a Technical Teacher Training College, and an extension to the
mohammedia ScLaol of Engineering.  The project loan account is scheduled to
close at the end of  1985, but the Government has requested  a  one-year
extension to permit project completion under Loan financing *.  The Fifth
Education Project (Ln. 2149-MOR) is supporting the expansion and qualitative
improvement of primary and secondary education by financing the construction
and equipping of 40 primary schools, 4 secondary teacher colleges, and a
palckage of basic educational aids  for 700 existing primary schools.  The
project is ongoing; the Loan Closing Date is March 31, 1988.
45.     As noted by the PPAR for the First Education Project, early project
implementation suffered delays due to inadequate management capacity within
the MOE. Implementation by the MOE steadily improved following the creation
of a separate, permanently staffed MOE project unit under the Second Education
Project, and the progressive reinforcement of its staff to meet its increasing
responsibilities under the subsequent three projects. The PPARs for the first
and the second projects noted implementation delays, but concluded that the
projects achieved  their educational  objectives.   Implementation of project
components outside the MOE, under the Second and Third Education Projects,
however,  experienced significant delays and,  ultimately,  deletion of some
project components due to less developed implementation capacity in the
minstries concerned-a problem which supervision could not entirely
overcome. The lack of continuity in lending to these other ministries also
meant that it was not possible to address implementation deficiencies in the
design of subsequent projects as had been done in the MOE.  In spite of
significant delays in implementation of non-MOE components, the Third Project
achkeved its educational objectives- including introduction of innovative
curricula in the MOE project primary schools and secondary schools; based on
satisfactory results in the project schools the Government is now generalizing
these program. The ongoing Fourth and Fifth Projects, which involve only the
* she request is currently being processed.



- 16 -
MOE, are being implemented vigorously and effectively by the MOE. Some delays
in implementation arose from delays in payments to contractors as a result of
the  Government's  financial  situation,  but  this  situation  has  improved
following the rationalization of the investment portfolio which occurred under
the joint Public Investment Review. The proposed program reflects the lessons
of past project experience in that it includes a suitable structure for
coordination of the interministerial aspects of the reform.
PART IV: THE EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM AND THE BANK PROJECT
A. The Reform Program
Program Objectives
46.      As  indicated  in  Part  I,  Morocco  is  implementing  a  program  of
medium-term economic adjustment across the major sectors of its economy. A
stabilization program constraining expenditure is in place. By the year 1989,
education  expenditures  are  projected  to  have  dropped  to  approximately
$790 million from approximately $860 million in 1984-85, or from 221 of the
Government budget in 1984-85 to 18Z in 1989, which will contribute
significantly  to  the  stabilization  program.   The education reform program
represents an important initiative for Morocco, particularly in light of the
Government's  overall  program  of  economic adjustment.   The  country  can no
longer afford, nor should it support for other reasons mentioned in Part III,
the educational system as it is currently structured.
47.      The education reform program is designed to increase literacy among
Moroccan children of school age by improving the equity of access to basic
education, to improve the efficiency of the education system, and to meet more
effectively the country's employment needs through the redi-ection of a
greater proportion of students into vocational training instead of general,
higher  education.   Controlling  education  costs  is  a  vital  part  of  the
country's efforts to restore fiscal balance and will be an important result of
the education reform program.  The overall objective of the reform program,
therefore, is to establish and maintain adequate standards of educational
quality, while restraining the growth of overall costs and decreasing the unit
costs of education.
Elements ofthe POogrmm
48.      The MOE has started to undertake broad efficiency measures to reduce
the financial burden of the sector on the economy, while changing the
substance of and student access to, education at various levels of the
system. Specifically, the Government's objective is to make available to all
children basic schooling through grade 9, followed by a rigorous selection of
students for subsequent studies.   Included in the Government's strategy are
actions which are designed to make educational activities more cost-effective.
Expand Access to Basic Scliooling and Improve Basic Education
Efficiency
49.      At the primary and secondary levels, an initiative is underway to
address problems of poor access to schools, particularly in rural areas. The



- 17 -
Government has set intake and enrollment targets to measure the success of its
efforts in this area, as part of its policy to achieve full enrollment in
primary education by the end of the century.  Measures to improve student
flows throughout the system are also being instituted.
50.      The  program  includes  efforts  by  the  Government  to  foster  the
development  of  private  schools  at  the  primary  and  secondary  levels.
Specifically, the MOE has begun to improve its support of private schooling in
the areas of certification, quality control and pedagogical services. At this
point, the reform program does not have a specific quantitative goal for
private school expansion.
51.      Currently the Government is conducting a building program to expand
primary and lower secondary school classroom capacity. Schooling investments
at higher levels are planned to be sharply curtailed.
52.      The  Government  has  initiated  a  policy  of  restricting  class
repetitions at the primary and secondary levels and intends to establish
mandatory promotion rates to ensure that qualified students are not kept from
entering the appropriate grade levels.  Students who have repeated more than
four years would be barred from continuing in public schooling.
53.      Under  the  reform  program,  the  basic  schooling  network  will  be
extended to promote primary and secondary education in rural areas,
particularly among female  students.   The school  construction program will
locate scheols appropriately to help meet this objective, and the Government
will undertake studies to develop programs of multigrade teaching and other
pedagogical activities to help meet this objective.  Other measures will be
initiated to strengthen the schooling network, particularly the provision of
basic teaching aids and teacher housing facilities in remote areas to
facilitate the placement of female teachers at schools in these areas.
Assigning more female teachers to rural schools is expected to encourage
female school attendance.
54.      New pedagogical programs are being developed under the reform program
to facilitate flows in basic schooling: a program in remedial instruction for
students with learning problems, a program in continuous evaluation by
teachers of student performance, and a program in use of standardized testing.
Restrain Growth of Upper Secondary and Higher Education and Improve
Efficiencr
55.      The reform program will require more selectivity in student entry
into higher levels of education after basic schooling. Within the education
system, the options for basic education graduates will be to compete for upper
secondary schooling or for vocational training to equip them with skills
needed in the Moroczan employment market. Vocational training opportunities
are expected to be considerably expanded under the reform program. Admissions
into unper secondary schools and universities are to be restricted through
enforcement of more rigorous standards of entry. Progression rates from lower
to upper secondary are expected to fall from 56% to 40% by the start of the
second phase of the program. University entry is expected to be reduced from
13% to 2% annual growth rates.



- 18 -
56.      Class  and  course  repetition rates in upper secondary schools and
universities respectively would be limited to a maximum of two years each, as
a matter of policy under the reform program. In addition, for the first time,
university fellowships would be conditioned upon satisfactory performance and
financial need.
Control Education Costs
57.      The MOE will  adopt  numerous  actions under the reform program to
control capital and recurrent costs of education and to introduce cost
recovery  for  education.   Cost  control  actions  include  adopting  a  more
cost-effective formula for teacher training (more intensive classroom training
over a shorter period of time, plus increased in-service training), using
educational resources more intensively, adopting more economical norms for
construction of primary school facilities and involving the private sector in
the financing of education.   Following are  the  Government's  planned cost
control measures:
-     Increased minimum  teaching  hours  by an  average  of  20S over the
1984-85 year in university faculties;
-     strengthened private sector presence in the education sector as an
alternative   to  public  education,  through  the  introduction  of
incentives for private investment in education;
-     adoption of a more cost-effective program of teacher training;
-     lower teacher training stipends;
-     restriction of eligibility  for foreign  university  fellowships  to
specialization not available in Morocco;
-     reduced boarding in university facilities to lower recurrent costs of
maintaining these facilities;
-     reduced unit costs of school construction by an average of 13% by
adoption of least-cost construction norms;
-     development of a school maintenance program to extend the useful life
of educational facilities;
-     improved   efficiency   of   school   administration,   measured   by
administrative/teaching staff coefficients;
-     already  partial  cost  recovery  occurs  through  the  collection  of
student boarding fees.   Over the medium-term of  the program,  the
Government is committed to introducing student registration fees in
higher education.
58.      The result of these measures, coupled with the implementation of the
enrollment policies cited earlier, is expected to be a major increase in the



- 19 -
number of students entering and completing basic education.   In the school
year 1989/90, it is projected that 75,000 more students would complete basic
schooling under the reform than without it.  This enrollment benefit of the
reform program would rapidly grow thereafter as reform program measures
affecting student flows were progressively implemented and as the higher
number of students admitted to basic schooling pass from initial grades to the
final grades of basic schooling. These measures are also expected to lead to
a $160 million decrease in education costs overall by 1989/1990, compared to a
projection of activity in the sector without the reform program, over the same
time period.  The projection of sector costs without the reform program is
based on a disaggregated extrapolation of enrollments which, although probably
not feasible under current financial constraints, indicates the consequences
of maintaining current education policies.  The projection illustrates well
therefore,  the  need  for  a  reform  program.  Primary education  costs are
expected to increase during this time period, while secondary and higher
education costs are projected to decrease enough to lower total education
costs.
59.     The reform program as a whole will be implemented over approximately
fifteen years. Implementation of the reform program is the responsibility of
the MOE under the supervision of the MOE's Commission de la Reforme
Educative.  The Commission, which was established under the authority of the
Minister of Education during preparation of the proposed project, is chaired
by the MOE Secretary General for Primary and Secondary Education and comprises
the Secretary General for Higher Education and the Directors of the key MOE
departments  involved  in  the  reform:   the  departments  of  planning  for
prizary/secondary education and higher education, the line departments for
primary education, secondary education, technical education, higher education,
and teacher training, and the infrastructure departments for administration
and personnel.
60.     Coordination of reform implementation covering the various ministries
involved in the reform is to be assured by the existing and active
Interministerial Steering  Committee.  The  Committee, which was established
under the autbority of the Prime Minister in December 1984, is chaired by the
Minister of Economic Affairs and comprises the Ministers of Education, Finance
(MOF), Public  Works  and  Vocational  Training,  and  Planning  (MOP).   The
Interministerial Steering Committee has established the respective roles of
the ministries involved-namely, implementation of the policy reforms and the
primary school building program by the MOE, provision of the necessary
budgetary resources by the MOF, vocational training coordination and
iupleuentatiom of the secondary school building program by the MPW, and
elaboration of the development planning context of the reform by the MOP. The
Comittee would continue to meet periodically during reform implementation to
resolve   questions   of   interministerial   coordination   as   they   arise.
Working-level contact among the ministries involved in the reform would be
asswred through technical working groups which have been established in the
MM, under the coordination of the MOE's Reform Implementation Task Force.
The MOE Reform Implementation Task Force has been created to assist the MOE's
Comission  de La  Reforme  Educative  in supervising  implementation  of  the



- 20 -
reform.  The Task Force is also to report to the Interministerial  Steering
Comittee and to the Bank on implementation of the reform. Assurances were
obtained from the Borrower that the Committee, the Commission and the Task
Force  would  all  be  maintained  with  membership  and  terms-of-reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
B. Te Bank Project
61.      The project was appraised in April-May, 1985.  Negotiations were held
in Washington D.C. in January, 1986. The Moroccan delegation was headed by
Mr. Hassan Belkoura of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and included
representatives from the Ministries of Education, Finance, Equipment and
Planning. A summary of the proposed project is provided at the beginning of
thjs report and Annex III contains supplementary project data.
Ratiale for Bank Involvement
62.      The Bank has been involved in discussions with the Government on the
education sector reform program since 1981.  Discussions were held initially
with the MOE on technical aspects of the reform, and were later broadened to
involve other ministries and other levels of Government in a re-examination of
the ultimate objectives of education in a medium-term perspective. The reform
program which emerged from this process, and which the Government is committed
to implement, fully embodies the recommendations made by the Bank throughout-
these discussions. The purpose of the proposed loan is to support the overall
reform program.  Thus, the objectives of the proposed loan are the objectives
of the reform--namely, to make the provision of education in the country more
equitable, more cost-effective, and more consistent with the country's
development needs.  In order to promote rapid implementation of the reform
program a Bank loan of US$150 million is proposed to support two to three
years of the initial phase of program implementation.
63.      During this first phase, to be supported by the proposed loan, the
structure of the education reform would be put into place: the reorientation
of the school system would be clearly established and supported by reallocated
shares of education resources; cost recovery measures would be introduced for
university   studies;   the   recently   introduced   fellowship   eligibility
restrictions would be generalized; and a series of measures would be put into
effect to improve the efficiency of use of teacher and classroom resources at
each level of schooling.  Programs would also be developed during this first
phase for vital new pedagogical activities (including remedial instruction,
career counseling, multi-grade teaching, and teacher upgrading) and for
further cost efficiency measures which would be put into effect during the
subsequent phase  of  the  reform  program.   These  measures  would  lead  to
continued improvements in quality, efficiency, and enrollments during the
second phase of the reform program.
64.      The reform actions to be taken under Phase II of the program consist
of introducing several new pedagogical actions which are to be developed under
Phase I; and continuing and reinforcing the measures to improve enrollments,
student flows, and cost control which are to be introduced under Phase I. The



- 21 -
Phase II reform actions would thus complement and complete the reform measures
which are to be introduced earlier. At the same time, the Phase I reform
measures are meritorious in their own right.
65.      The Bank's substantive support has been and continues to be critical
to maintaining the momentum for reform and giving it visible legitimacy in the
overall development program of the country. The Bank's financial support is
also vital to assure timely implementation of a coherent reform program. The
Bank's role in the development program and history of involvement in the
education sector gives it a unique role in supporting this reform that cannot
be assumed by other financiers.
Projct Costs and F    i
66.      The project consists of the following activities to be carried out
during Phase I of the reform program, which covers the period January 1986
through December 1988: (i) carrying out the Borrower's 1986-1987 primary and
secondary school construction and expansion program; (ii) provision of
educational materials to primary and secondary schools; (iii) carrying out of
teacher training programs for primary and secondary school teachers; (iv)
provision of overseas university fellowships; and (v) studies on pedagogical
reformn, school efficiency, maintenance, construction norms and private
education. The proposed Bank loan would finance part of the costs of these
activities.  Specific results expected during the project period, which are
tied to Bank financing, are listed in paragraph 78. The major elements of the
reform program are described in paragraphs 48-58 above and covered in detail
in Chapter 3 of the SAR and its annexes. Because of its extensive nature, the
reform affects in some way or another all activities of the Ministry of
Education  and  reshapes  the  expenditure  program  of  the  Ministry.   Total
education expenditures for this period are estimated at DH 17,377 million, or
US$1,829 million of which the foreign costs are estimated at US$250 million.
The composition of estimated Ministry expenditures by sub-program and by
category of expenditure are summarized below in Tables 2 and 3:
Table 2
PHASE I - COSTS BY SUB-PROGRAM
Millions of             Millions of
Current DH              Current US$
Espenditure Item    Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Basic Education         9,630   1,656   11,286   1,014       174   1,188
Upper Secondary
Education              1,923       64    1,987      202       7     209
Teacher Training        1,181        3    1,184      124       -     124
Uniwersity Education    1,800      405    2,205      189      43     232
MOE UAministration        426      111      537       45      12      57
IBRD Fourth and
Fifth Projects *          45      133      178        5      14      19
TOTAL PHASE I COSTS    15,005   2,372   17,377   1,579       250   1,829
*   The IBRD Fourth and Fifth projects will provide funds for Basic Education,
Upper Secondary Education, Teacher Training and University Education.



- 22 -
Table 3
PHASE I- COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Millions of              Millions of
Current DH               Current US$
Category of Expenditure  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Investment
Primary and Secondary
School Construction       2,296   1,467   3,763       241     155      396
Equipeat and
Furniture:
Primary & Secondary        66      200     266        7      21       28
IB8D 4th, 5th Ed Proj.    45      133      178        5      14       19
Otber                      32       98     130        3      10       13
Subtotal                2.439   1.898   4.337       256     200      456
Recurrent
Salaries and
Benefits:
Teacher Training          520       -      520       54      -        54
Other 1'               10,149       -   10,149   1,069       -    1,069
Felloships and
Stipends:
University Fellowships   395       303     698       41      32       73
Teacher Training
Stipends                655       -      655       69      -        69
Secondary
Fellowships -'          211      -       211       23      -        23
Educational Materials:
Primary & Secondary       125       54     179       13       6       19
Teacher Training            6        3       9        1      -         1
Other 3/                  268      114     382       28      12       40
School Maintenance          237       -      237       25      -        25
Subtotal               12.566     474  13,040   1.323        50   1.373
TOTAL PHASE I COSTS      15.005   2.372  17,377   1.579       250   1,829
1/ Consists of salaries and benefits for the staff of primary, secondary and
higher education institutions, and for MOE Administration staff.
2/ For boarding students, to offset boarding fees.
3/ University and M0E Administration.



- 23 -
67.      The proposed Bank loan would finance US$150 million of the estimated
US$250 million foreign exchange cost of capital and recurrent expenditures in
the sector during Phase I reform program implementation. This would support
the key elements of the reform program to extend primary education in rural
areas, improve the efficiency and relevancy of basic education, and
rationalize use of upper secondary and university education.  In addition,
US$14 million in financing are available under the Fourth and Fifth Education
Projects to cover part of the foreign costs of new school construction and
equipment1', and of studies  to develop new educational programs  1'.  The
remaining costs during this period, amounting to an estimated US$86 million of
foreign costs -nd US$1.6 billion of local costs, would be borne by the
Government.
Phase I Juwlemeation
68.     During Phase I of the program, the structure of the education reform
would be put into place:   the reorientation of the school system would be
clearly  established  and  supported  by  reallocated  shares  of  education
resources; the recently introduced fellowship eligibility restrictions would
be generalized to apply to all incoming students; and a series of measures
would be put into effect to improve the efficiency of use of teacher and
celassroom resources at each level of schooling 3' .  Programs would also be
developed under the Project during this first phase for vital new pedagogical
activities (including remedial instruction, career counseling, multi-grade
teaching, and teacher upgrading) and for further cost efficiency measures
which would be put into effect during the subsequent phase of the reform
program.   These measures would lead to continuc1 improvements in quality,
efficiency, and enrollments during the second phase of the reform program.
Thus, the main impact of the reform during the first phase of implementation
would be on enrollments and costs; new pedagogical programs developed during
the  first  phase  would  be   introduced  during  the  second  phase  of
implementation.
Sast, of Phse I Preparation
69.     The following reform actions have already been taken:
(a) The Government has sent the Bank a policy letter documenting its
comuitment to the reform program, with a Program Implementation
Matrix. The education sector policy presented in the letter and the
attached Matrix appear as Annex IV to this report;
V/ These schools, most of which are now in operation, are for basic
education,  teacher  training  and  technical  education.   Most  of  the
outstanding $14 million of reimbursable expenditures represent the cost of
the final complement of workshop equipment for the technical institutions
financed under these projects.
2/ The Staff Appraisal Report (Annex C) details the objectives, duration and
inputs of the studies to be undertaken.
31 By the end of the project period the Government is expected to have
achieved the targets set forth in the Attachment to Annex IV, in addition
to the conditions of second tranche release, and the completion of studies
to develop new pedagogical programs.



- 24 -
(b) the Government has made 1986 budgetary allocations which are adequate
to support timely implementation of the Phase I school building
program and the program of improved supply of educational materials
in basic schooling;
(c)  student flows to lower secondary schools for the 1985/86 school year
were improved in June 1985 in conformity with the target promotion
rate for grade 5 (from about 38S to about 491);
(d)  the growth of upper secondary schooling was slowed in June 1985 in
conformity with the target promotion rate for grade 9 (from about 571
to about 52% of the students enrolled in grade 9 in 1984-1985);
(e)  the growth of university education was slowed in October 1985 in
conformity with the targeted 21 ceiling for annual growth of total
new intakes to the university faculties;
(f)  teaching hours have been increased an average  of 20S since  the
1984-85 school year for upper secondary and university education;
(g)  fellowship restrictions for university studies as set forth in the
attachment to the policy letter were applied in the 1985-86 year,
resulting in an annual cost saving of about $10 million.
70.     To assist the Borrower in carrying out the studies to develop new
educational programs, it would be assisted as appropriate by consultant
experts in the individual specializations being addressed by the respective
studies.   Qualifications,  experience  and  terms  of  reference  of  these
consultants would be to the satisfaction of the Bank and their selection would
be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. It was decided at negotiations
that consultant services may be funded by technical assistance funds available
under the Bank's Fifth Education Project (closing date, March 31, 1988).
These services are expected to be provided beginning in April 1986.
71.      In addition,  the  terms of  reference and  implementation plan for
studies to develop new educational programs have been confirmed.  Terms of
reference for the program of studies to develop new educational programs have
been prepared by the MOE and have been finalized. Assurances were obtained
from the Borrower that all studies would be completed by December 1988 (except
for the study on private education incentives which would be completed by the
end of 1986) and that the Borrower would, on the basis of an exchange of views
with the Bank, carry out the recommendations based on the studies' findings.
AUlleatimn of Loan Proceeds
72.      Procurement.  The procurement of goods and services to be financed
with Bank funds would be procured as follows:



- 25 -
Table 4
PROPOSED PROCUREbMENT PROCEDURES
(Total reimbursable costs, in millions of current US$;
figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by the proposed loan)
Reform Program                     Procurement Procedure       Total
Category of Expenditures                ICB1-' LCBP'   Other         Cost
Prioary and Secondary School Construction
and Related Services                         -      396        -          396
(26)                 (26)
Primary and Secondary School Equipment,
Furniture and Educational Materials         24      23        -           47
(6)                           (6)
University Fellowships                         -       -         73          73
(32)        (32)
Teacher Training                               --      -        124         124
(Salaries, Benefits, Stipends and                             (86)        (86)
Educational Materials)
Other Program Costs ZZ                         -       -      1,189       1,189
(0)         (O)
TOTAL                                        24     419    1,386        1,829
(6)    (26)    (118)       (150)
1/ International Competitive Bidding and bidding through UNICEF.
21 Local Competitive Bidding.
3/ Consisting  predominantly  of  salaries  and  benefits  for  the  staff  of
primary, secondary  and  higher  education  institutions,  and  for  MOE
Administration staff.
73.     Contracts for civil works to be reimbursed under the proposed loan
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The bidding would be open
to foreign firms.  LCB is justified in light of:  (a) the wide geographic
dispersion of schools to be constructed; (b) the small average contract value
of each school (about US$200,000); and, subsequently, (c) the demonstrated
lack of interest by foreign firms, as experienced in other ongoing iBRD
projects,  among  small,  widely  distributed  projects.   Prevailing  local
competitive bidding procedures are consistent with the need for economy and
efficiency  in the execution of  the project.   There are, however,  a few
procedures  which  require  modifications  to  be  acceptable  to  the  Bank.
Agreement was reached with the Government on the LCB procedures to be used for
procurement under the proposed loan.  Goods financed under the loan would be
procured according to the Bank's ICB procedures (except for educational
materials which may be procured through UNICEF) and consultant services would
be procured according to Bank guidelines. Prior Bank review of procurement
decisions would be required for all contracts for goods and each contract for
works estimated to cost $500,000 or more.



- 26 -
74.     Disbursements.  Disbursements under the proposed l1an would be made
as follows:
(a) 65S of total expenditures on civil works and associated
professional   services   for   primary   and   secondary   school
construction;
(b) 100X of foreign expenditures and 751 of local expenditures on
equipment, furniture, and educational materials for primary and
secondary schooling and teacher training;
(c)  1001  of   foreign   expenditures   on   university   fellowships
(including retroactive financing from September 1, 1985);
(d) 801 of recurrent expenditures on teacher training: salaries,
stipends, travel and accomodation allowances in MOE teacher
training institutions where payment is made before January 1,
1987 (including retroactive financing from September 1, 1985);
(e) 601 of recurrent expenditures on teacher training occuring on or
after January 1, 1987; and
Cf) 65% of total expenditures on consultant services.
A Special Account of $20 million would be established at the Borrower's
Central Bank.
75.     The recurrent expenditures on teacher training are deemed incremental
costs to cover the training of new teachers and the retraining of teachers for
new curricula under the reform program.   The  disbursement against  these
incremental costs would be made on a declining scale under phase I of program
implementation.
76.     In order to expedite implementation of the reform program, up to
US$20 million of retroactive financing is recommended to finance expenditures
on teacher training and overseas fellowships occuring between September 1,
1985  and  signature  of  the  proposed  loan.   A  first  tranche  of  up  to
US$75 million  would  be  available  for  disbursement  upon  effectiveness,
estimated at June 1, 1986. Retroactive financing is just over half of the
disbursements expected to be made by June 30, 1986. Also to expedite program
implementation and loan disbursement, advance contracting related to school
construction (estimated at $27 million) is proposed to cover payments made
after loan signature for contracts awarded after January 1, 1983 (this date
represents iben appraisal of the school construction program began) in
conformity with current Bank guidelines. The second tranche of US$75 million
would become available upon Bank satisfaction of progress in carrying out the
reform progrm and the actions cited in paragraph 78. The Bank would conduct
an interim performance review no later than December 31, 1986 to establish
whether reform implementation warranted release of the second tranche.



- 27 -
77.     Disbursements of fellowships, training and civil works under $500,000
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures. Full documentation
on eligible expenditures would be made available to the Bank on request.
Disbursement is thus scheduled to be completed by the proposed Closing Date of
December 31, 1988.
Comi ws  of Second Tranche Release
78.          Based in part on the implementation reports to be prepared by
the JOR Reform Implementation Task Force, the Bank would conduct an interim
perfornance review in December 1986 in order to assess whether reform program
implementation progress during the first year of Phase I warranted release of
the second tranche.  Implementation performance in relation to all reform
program targets as set forth in the policy letter and the attached Matrix,
would be monitored; second tranche release would be conditioned on the Bank
being satisfied with the overall progress in carrying out the reform program
and that the following actions were taken:
(a) construction and equipping of about 2,900 new primary school
classrooms to be operational by September 1986;
(b) carrying out of a program for the distribution, in accordance
with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, of educational
materials to primary and secondary schools;
(c) initiation of the studies included in the Project;
(d) increase of the rate of promotion of students from primary to
lower secondary schools such that the number of students so
promoted at the end of the academic year ending in June 1986,
shall be equal to about 541 of the total number of students
attending the fifth grade of primary school during such academic
year (up from 49% in May 1985);
(e) reduction of the rate of promotion of students from lower
secondary to upper secondary schools such that the number of
students so promoted at the end of the academic year ending in
June 1986, shall be equal to about 45 of the total number of
students attending the final grade of lower secondary school
during such academic year (down from 52Z in June 1985);
(f) limitation of the number of students admitted in each academic
year to the first year of university, to a level equal to about
1021 of the total number of students admitted to the first year
of university during the preceding academic year;
(g) application of eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Bank in
the award of fellowships to university students;



- 28 -
(h) maintenance of the average number of hours of instruction
required to be provided by all university teachers at a level of
120% of the hours required during the academic year ending in
June 1985; and
(i) preparation of a proposed system of incentives designed to
encourage the development of quality private schools.
Aceoumtin and Audit
79.     Agreements were obtained that the borrower will maintain accounts to
record project expenditures. These would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and audit reports would be provided to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Befit and Riks
80.      The  education  sector  reform  program  is  expected  to  yield  very
significant development benefits for the country. It would make the provision
of education more equitable, more cost-effective, and more consistent with the
country's medium-term needs and resources. Some of the prospective benefits
of the reform are quantifiable, as are the improved enrollment prospects and
the reduced education costs. There are also a number of important potential
benefits which are not quantifiable. They include the improved equity which
would result from the provision of basic schoolipg where none existed in the
past, the more practical orientation of education to employment needs, and the
psychological benefit to students of reduced class failure and repetition.
81.      The reform program also entails some risks.  The most important of
these is the risk of rejection by key participants in the reform-teachers,
students,  parents,  and  school  administrators.   The  reform  involves  a
significant change in the objectives of the education system, and will require
a  corresponding  adjustment  in  public  expectations  of  the  system.   By
articulating Bank support for the reform program, the Government expects to
facilitate public acceptance of the sensitive elements of the reform such as
increased teaching hours and slower growth of university intakes. Although
the reform has been well received by many groups, it could face rejection by
groups who view the reform as threatening accustomed prerogatives or
expectations. The Government is fully aware of this risk, and has very
conscientiously sought to minimize it by situating the reform in the context
of restructuring in other sectors, by involving key interest groups (including
teachers' unions and political parties) in early deliberations on the reform,
and by testing public receptiveness on a number of key reforms before
cocmitting itself to the full reform program. Although the reform program
inevitably entails some risk of public rejection, these efforts by the
Government to build public acceptance of the reform have reduced that risk.
82.      A second risk is that the ultimate objectives of the reform could be
compromised by incomplete implementation-particularly during the second phase
of the reform when a number of new educational activities are to be
introduced. The reform program is complex in terms of the number, size, and
inter-relationship  of  program  actions.  A  number  of  these  complementary



- 29 -
actlons are essential to the success of the Phase I policy initiatives.  The
improved promotion rates introduced in Phase I, for example, would ultimately
lead to an undesirable situation of automatic promotion unless the programs in
student performance assessment and remedial instruction are successfully
developed and implemented. Successful follow-up on the initial reform program
actions will require sustained monitoring by the Government and by the Bank of
actions to develop and implement new educational activities.  To reduce this
implementation risk, an appropriate composition of the Reform Implementation
Task Force was confirmed at negotiations.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
83.           I am satisfied that the proposed' loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
February 20, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-30-                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
_~~~~~I               _MI Rom  a _ 
iipgdk     g970o I86k    U                   mm 36        UT. AIcWA * G*o
ta        _ Ci   s. w0
TOTAL                             444.        446  IL   4.6 I L
MEAIWL?U3A1                       192.7       200.1      209.2
or  - ColnU  C_)                       ..          ..       760.0             1134.9                  1875.9
~&  m u    3m  carm
(KULCSUII 0 OIL el'-ll)          116.0       174.0      24.               62.9                     993.
wuinum       ,>n -ns              IIrA* lmA 2m01A.
POeWAIOmIsum-TIAR (1385ANDS)  11626.0    14966.0    ami0.o
UAU IOPUUAUNX CX0O TOTAL)          29.3         4.6       42.6              49.0                     67.7
POruInf   in nu am  (mu.L)                              31.2
STATIONARY POVLATION (LL                                70.0
roIUIAneO  38                                            2.0
PONULAIOU 01111U117
rp  sq. m.                       26.0        33.5       46.6              37.8                     46.0
r SQ. M. AcEt. LAM               60.3    r 45           9J               470.1                      91.1
POflILATIM CK E 8300U33 CZ)
0-14 u3                         44.,        47.5       44.                45                        6 .5
1-64  3                           2.5        4.2         2.0              53.                        7.
65 AM AlDK                        2.7        4.1         3.0                3.3                     4.2
rvnATw GRmmun (x)
TOTAL                             2.6         2.5        2.5                2.6                      2.4
.31                               3.7         4.2        4.1                4.4                      3.
CUMor U31 RA73 CPU    5)           50.3        47.3       39.7              40.0                     30.9
CRUDI D15 U21 (M 7OGS)             21.2        16.9       14.3              11.5                      6.0
G303S UlPOua.al l1                  3.3         3.5         as                Za                      a.o
PANEL! PLIAUI
ACEPTOU. AN81 (N8S5)              ..         25.1      7J.0
1ss35 (I of IUS2 W)               ..          ..        26.0              21.4                     45.3
100101 M 013ET1
I0 Olf WOD PIODm. PR CAP2TA
(199-71-100)                       99.0       9U.0        75.0              95.1                    109.4
Pm cwrr* un  oP
013 (CZ 0 3W             )       95.0       103.0      116.0             118.2                     113.2
P30231  (GRMCIR3 DAT)            60.0        65.0       79.0              77.8                     69.4
0r WICII hINL AM PULSE          14.0        L3.0       14.0               17a                      34.2
CalLD (CA3S 1-4) D3A2K342          374         26.4       12.0              11.2                      4.6
LIVE UPIM. AT UIR  (133)           46.7       30.6        52.2              57.8                     44.8
IuvAIT mU5r. X (UTZ Cm 053)       160.5       13.5        98.0              96.8 N59.7
ACCsS TO sAF wA* (lCne)
TOMAL                            30.1        51.0       55.0 2            67.2                    6*.3
URBAN                            38.7        92.0      100.0              93.4                     74.5
3I3*1.                           19.0        28.0       25.0              45.8                     44.2
A0038 TO ESCRTA, DX18011L
(Z OF IPOIULaTION
TOL                               ..         29.0        ..               45.9                     5.3
uu                                ..        n7.0         ..               63.0                     73A
RURAL                                        4.0          .               28.6                     25.5
POPMLATION P3 Pr TZC             9410.0    12790.0    10750.0 f           4331.0                      9.7
P.  MIRSID   P1ER                            2740.0     160.0 7145.0                                80I.2
POP: M  WITAL 3U
TOUL                            630.0       660.0      750.0 A           621.8                    32.0
5U3                                         450.0       10.01            543.0                    422.0
33L                               ..       5810.0     3010.0            2511.3                   2716.7
AUK=OKS PER  iPrTAL UD               .         15.5       17.9              23.7                     27.5
111     UZC OF 
TOTAL                             4.*         5.5
-vu3a5                             4.3        4.9
RURAL                             5.1         5.8
AIz    11 No. 0o    7Ums N
TOL                               2.2         2.4
53*                                .1 2       2.1
RURAL                             2.3         2.6
PEaC X  0r Dor  L IW3 1R11 tLUC.
TotAL                             ..          ..
Ulm                               ..          6.4       6.0.
30UL                              ..          ..



- 31 -                                            ANNEX I
TA' LS -    4                                  Page 2 of 7
T A I L t 34
- SOCMAL INDsCAe RS DAA SHUT
wmcso   amc os cwvzGmo AvAgE) .
HOMT                     (tDT RECET ITT 
*IS               MItDDLE INCOIIC LIDDLC  COmE
iseoLk      mo7L  MSTD4aT          M. *AFRICA I NID EAST     LAT. AMERCA   CAR
AMRJ ITEN      m ENONIT ATIOS
IARt:  TOTAL                       47.0        51.0        10.0               *9.-                     106.7
PAL2.                   67.0        67.0        96.0              03.7                     108.5
FIVAL                   27.0        36.0        62.0               75.2                     104.6
S&CONSAIT: TOTAL                    3.0        13.0        28.0               42.9                      44.2
HALE                     7.0        18.0        33.0               50.9                      42.7
FINAS                    2.0         7.0        22.0               34.6                      44.9
VOCATIONL (CS Of SECDILI)             0.0         0.0         1.3               10.0                      13.3
PUIPZL-TEACNR lrAIO
PEDIA                              42.0        34.0        36.0               29.7                      29.9
sGOoAR                              6.0        20.0        21.0               18.8                      16.7
mosNimo
7ASEUN     CARBITIOUSAND PO          10.7        14.9        21.3 g             17.6                      46.0
MO UDS0IVSUTUSS    POP               43.8        62.5       167.7              173.9                     328.3
TV UEIVEUTLNO      D PO               0.4        11.6        41.7               31.2                     112.4
NEVP1 P   ("DALY GENERAL
XNTEREST") CIRCDIATIOU
PSR THOUSAND POPUZATION             22.1        16.2        &Z.6               37.2                      61.1
cIEn  ANNuAL ATODDAMU CAPITA          1.5         1.5 lb      2.0 /.             2.4                       2.4
ToTAL LAif-Mof  (TOrc.s)           3339.0      3939.0      5544.0
FINAL- (PECET)                     10.0        14.2        16.2               11.0                      Z3.6
'5RCOL      CNE (PERCENT)          62.0        57.0        52.0 11            42.4                      31.4
INNISTY  (PEtCET)                  14.0        17.0        Zi .0w             27.9                      24.3
PARTICIPATION RAT (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              29.1        26.3        26.7               26.2                      33.5
MAN                                52.1        45.2        44.5               46.2                      51.3
rLlE                                5.9         7.5         8.5                5.8                      15.9
ECONOC DFENODUCT  RATIO               1.6         2.0         1.3                1.8                       1.3
PrIU T o0  PRIVATE XNCU
RECEVE  IT
31835 E O        SIWODLDW          13.0 /1    20.0
RIGSN   205 OF NOISENOLDS          43.3 *1    49.0          .
LOWEST 202 of 1ous1LD0              7.0 4" .0 }7.
LOWIST AM  IOF SRNOLDS             L8.0 7      12.0 /
STIDA     U SOssam  rOVERY  rNCWIE
LEmL (s rEM CAPITA)
1am                               107.0       157.0       389.0 If           226.3                     238.3
RL                                 66A.       101.0       238.0 7            134.0                     185.3
ESTDMA     RLATIM   POVERTY r1c
LVL (USS PER CAITA)
U                                   ..          ..        242.0 /f           431.5                     519.8
RuAL                                ..          ..        157.0 7            326.0                     359.7
ESTUATZD FOP. DEL  ABSOLUTE
NOVElTr LCf LEVML ()
cRamD                              51.0        38.0        28.0 If
IMRAL                              49.0        45.0        *5.0 7             29.0
NMT AVA*LAA
IOY AT PLZCA
N O T C S
/a   The gtsp aVerage for each ndicator arm popuLation-slgted aritbitic mes. Caverage of cotries
meSg the Lmdicatows  depend  an avalability of data ad La not uniform.
U lues otheiwisa noted. Data for 1960" rfer to any year betwee  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970  between
1969 and 1971; and data for "fat Recdet Estmate" between 1981 end 1983.
e   Ecelus tbh  _x-Spralsh Sahara;  /d 1976; /a 1977; /f :,!, L  1978; /h 1972; /I 1960;
Cou t"   expdituwe of hausehalds.
JUn. 1985



ANNEX I
-  32  -                                      Page 3 of 7
DEMMriONS OF SOCIAL INDICATO>RS
Note Mthough the data at drawn from sourcs grayjudd the mot authorittive and relable it should alo be noted that they umy no be intertionally
co_mp e hera of the tac of sandardid definition and concpts used by different contries in collcting the data. The data a*re nonehek, useful to
descrbe ndem of .nitude. indicatc ttrend. and charscterim crtin major differen betw  countrie.
The ren  groups are (1) the ume country gneup of tbe subject country and (23 a coultry group with somewat higer averge incme than the country
group fthe wbject country (ezcpt for 'High Income 00 Exporters' group where 'Middle Income North Afrika and Middle Ea-s is chosn bue of stronger
ocio-cultural afsi.lo   In the refrce group data the avages are population weighted aritheiic mew for incb indicator and shown only when majority
odthe counties ia igrou boa data for thal iniator. Since the covera ofcounuie among the indicatr depends on the availabiity ofdais tn  is not uniform.
caution must be exerisd in relating averags aotom indicator to anoder. These averas ar oly useful in comparing the value of one i ndicator at a time among
the country and rferec group.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crude Brth Rtie (per thosusnd,-Number of livc births in the year
Teol--Tota. surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year populalion: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crude Deth Rate (per thomnd- -Number of deaths in the year
Agrubnul-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Cress Rep wtieiox Re-tAvcrage number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experics
prcsent age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year avcrages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calcuated by same conversion method as World knsil Phwg--AcpMrs, Annual (thouzands)-Annual num-
Bask Atlas (198143 basis); 1983 data.                           ber ofacceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  faruily planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     FanCy Pamningr-Users (pern of-re pd wen)-The pcen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     or child-bearing age are generally wonen aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Toeef P1p98lauies. Mid-Yes (thmusahr)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Urban Popula_ib. (percent of ratal)--Ratio of urban to total   .Indaex ofFeoed hProdco Per Capia (I1969-71= l1OV--lndcx of per
U.hm P-pdadon .pereenr of toral)--Ratio of urban to total capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excudes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food comnodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
-          Precgiou                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Poptuation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); ttiey comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabke. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 dta.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             Per Capita Supply of Coris (peret ofreqes     s)-Comput-
Statiowy popudatio-is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic prcuduc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacenent level  tion. imports less export, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution ofpopulation. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lvel.                                      waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capita Supply of Protein (gra  per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the tiue that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which IO grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
p,late Dst,p                                                   average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita Protein Smpply froi  Anisu and Pate-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricularal and-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Aophdou Age Stuctre (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-      Ckild (qaes 1-4) Death Rate (per thousaad)--Number of deaths of
ingage (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popuintie. Growth Rate (percent)-e4ota-AnnuaJ growth rates of   from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-yea: population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Popultia  Grewt Rate (evrcerl-wasn---Annual growth rates        Life Erpectancy ar  Birt (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



33                                            ANNME I
Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth wer to stay the mmun throughout its life;  PkV&teacher Raio - prima. and secondary--Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 dataL                                    rolied in primary and scondary lvels divided by numbers of
Aus Merrty Rae (pwer thom.l)--Number of infants who die    teadiers in the corresponding leves.
before reaching one year of age per thousnd live births in a given
year. 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Acc  to Slilre (Wercepm    of I   dmk)-ttAq u,an, and         Pbswsge CAs (per tXemud popltlen)-Passenger cmr co-
NwI-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with neuonable  prise motor cars seating leus than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (mcludes treated surface waters or  ances, hearses and miitary vehicles
untreted but uncotaminated water such -  ftht from Protetctd  JRmd. REIeirS (per thesm  ipepulati.)-AIl types of receivers
boreh       springs and sanitary wels) as percentages of their rspec-  for radio broadcasts to gweral public per thousand of populadon
tive popultons. In an urban area a public fountan or sandpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years wben
located not more than 200 metes from a house may be considered
located bngt within r l aetm  of that house. ,  be , d        registration of radio sets was m effect data for recent yeas may
abawt.reasonable acsdm      th    the t housw    to memer o the  not be comparable since most countries abolished lcensing.
rcLsonabeacccswould snply that the houswife or mmeros of tne
houelhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV RAceivrs (perw shmmpwutio)-TV recevers for broadast
in fechbing the family's water needs.                        to general publi per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
Ai p n-aers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Acte  to Ezre  D;yoS (plct of po)_" W)-a, urba.               in efet.
and rwra-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) saved by   in ewfe.             f
excreta disposal as percentages of their respctive populations.     p  C     K  (pe t d  p          o-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age ciculation of -daily general interest newspaper, defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privis and similar insllations.  It is considered to be -daily if it appears at least four times a week.
Poplative per Physidu- Population divided by number of prac-  GC      Ann_a Attendance per Capta per Yew-Based on the
tising physcians qualified from a medical school at uvesity level.    number of tickets sold during the year, induding admissions to
PapAWu per Nursi  Pmos-fbpulation divided by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nures,  LABOR FO
practi nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                                  RCE
rhpatiae. per Lositd Bl ed-ttal, xrban, ad rur-Populatio      Total Labor Force (tromiands)-Economically active persons. in-
(total urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of '  uding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewive
hopital beds available in puvidic an di private, gen ie and  rO  students. etc.. covering popultion or all ages. Dcfinitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation  centers. Hospitals are esisuhnents  various countries are not comparabl; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at klat one physician. Estblishments prov-  Feni  (percem)-Fenalc labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. indude health and madical centers not permanently staffed  AgrieAwe (percen)-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor forcr 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accmmodation and provide a limited range  data.
of nedicd faciliies                                           Istry (percenr)-Labor force in mining, consruction. manu-
AAiusi*  pfr fHosptd hi-Total nunber of admissions to or      facturing and eectrici:y. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and .9S0 data.
P Rwt   o Rao (perce.w)-totra, -ak, anfif  p-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL rmale, and female labor force
Arag Sze of Houehod (pwseu pe hwsefihnldD-aoarban,            as percentuges of total, male and fanale popultion of all ages
.d rurl-A householdconsists of a group of individuals who share  respectvely; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Thes are based on tLOs
living quarters and thir main meals A boarder or odger may or  participation rates reflecting ag-scx staucture of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few esdmates are from national sources.
Arerg Nunber of Pess per Roou,-t.t  whan, aud rual-           Econ       Depeudey Rati-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in aU urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventonal dwellings, respectivly. Dwdlings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DlSTRIBUON
Pernte of Duelns wth ElectriCfty-tota, urba, nd nrua-         Aecente of Toral Disosble nom  (bothk in cah and knd)-
Conventional dwellings with ekcticity in living quarts as percen-  Aacruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
uage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings respectivdy.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Ajtwd EuralLwn Ratos                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
hnay school - total. mate and femal-Gross total, male and    levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of al ages at the prmary levd as percentages of  EstiatedAbsolut Poverty Income Le  (USS per cgpta J-arbn
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rwal-Absolute poverty income levd is that income lvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not The  below which a minimnal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practes in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflcted in the ratios given. For some counties with universal  E ctiated Rehoi  Poverty Income Leel (USS per cyita)-urban
education, gross enrolnlent may ecweed 100 percent since some  ad rwra-Rural relative poverty incomc level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countxy's standard prinary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agF-                                                         derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary sdool - totil. ak and fenal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four yeass of approved pri-  Estfinmed Population Beow Absolte Pbverty lncomw Level (per-
mary instruction; provides   eaL vocatonaL or teacher training  cent)-urbaw and rura- Peceut of populadon (urban and rural
instcions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.'
ence courses are generaly excuded.
Vocational Enroment (peret of secondary)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
uons include technicaL industriL or other programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as deparments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 34 -
Poulation    : 2e.s million  mUid-1O31                                                                                               PaU.L
GNP Pr CaPita:  1U1$ 7ne JIM9 f3e 3                                                                                                           Of
D- cDmc safeae|so
_imt
(fmAllion ULS at
current prices)I                          aet.al                                       PrahiCt.S
Indicator                       1111I.                 11        12    11       16 a/   SUI           IU      13       12U     13 1 
Gross doestic product IL/          12145                 -1.1      6.3     2.2     2.4     4.3            2.4     2.5     2.8     2.8      2.9
Aricultura                      2323                 -22.9    19.9   -4.4       2.0     *.0           2.0      2.0     2.5     2.5     2.5
Industry                        *32                   -0.1     2.2      3.1     I.E     3.0            1.5     2.0     2.5     2.5     3.0
Services                         4139                  5.      .1      3.8     3.4     4.7            3.0     3.0    3.0      3.0     3.0
Comsition                          10447                   1.5     4.0     0.3     1.2     3.4            2.3     1.3     1.4     1.S      2.2
Gross Investm4nt                    2792                 -9.4      7.1   -14.0     3.1    -5.0           -4.6   -e..      2.9     2.J      3.0
Exports of G1NFS                    3055                  0.2      5.5     7.3     3.6    5.1             8.1     7.3    3.2      7.5     5.6
liports of GNlFS                    4349                  2.0     3.7  -11.9       3.2   -4.2             2.0     2.3     3.4     2.3     3.0
Gross national savings              1323                -32.2      4.5    21.2     7.9     1.7            3.4     7.4     3.3    12.5    11.0
GDP deflator (1930 * 1003            .                   35.4    91.7   100.0   110.3   121.3           125.0  134.4   152.0
Exchange rate (USS per Oi)           .                   .z40    .254    .254    .193    .144            .141    .114    .10
Share of GDP at MIrket Prices (13                              a     - anl *nere. -  1
tUt eurrent ari I eJ                    (at roltent 10  arieol             ttt - E htetant 1450U*rtael
im    m    12M   j               im   u                   1927l5      mZLiI          1231k    1255 2M    12ML-of
Gross do_estic product                                                                  4.9        s.s             3.1         2.7         4.9
Agriculture            19.9   17.9   13.1    1s.0    14.7   13.5                    -1.4        4.4             0.5         2.3         3.0
Sndustry               27.0   35.2   32.3    30.6    30.1    31.2                    7.4        4.2             1.9         2.3         5.7
Services w             S3.1    46.9   49.6    54.4    55.2    SS.3                   5.4        4.4             4.7         3.0         4.9
Consumption               su.5    Us.S    U.s    26.$       3.5    79.6                 S.0        4.1             2.4         1.3         3.9
Gross investment           13.5    25.4   22.4    16.3    1S.2   20.4                  13.0       -1.1            -2.6         1.0         11.2
Exports GNFS              17.6   22.5   13.4    19.9    24.9    ZS.5                    0.0        4.9             4.3         7.6         5.3
imports GOFS              21.4   33.4    29.4   23.5    23.7   25.5                     3.3        1.7            -2.0         2.9         6.4
Gross national savings    14.3    19.3    14.4    12.0    1S.5    20.6                 1S.3       -4.4            -1.2         J.S         10.6
PA t af COP
P.NLIC FINAWK
Current revenues                               14.1      23.3       21.4      22.7      22.3      Z1.9
Current expnditures                            14.5      20.2       21.3      22.7      22.3      21.9
Surplus (.+  or deficit (-3                     1.6       3.1      -0.2        0.0      -0.5       0.0
Capital *x0ndIture                              5.7      12.2       12.2      13.3       3.4       4.4
Foreign financing                               1.2       3.7       S.4        7.2       3.6       S.0
NP growth rate (ts                              4.0       4.9       2.9        2.4       5.1
GUP per capita growth rate (5                   3.1       1.8       0.4       -0.1       2.6
Eergy consum1ption growth rate t                *.7       5.4       3.4        3.e       4.9
ICOR                                            3.0       4.1       5.9       s.$        3.5
Marginal savings rate                           3.03     -0.ls       0.14      0.43      0.36
Import elasticity                               1.34      0.13     -0.GS       1.o0      1.32
3, At market Prices.
V/ Lmeort taxes included in services.
C/ Projected years at constant 1930 prices.
at Estimate.
O c_er 13. 1935
DEINA CPt 
ED 3939M p1



Population    : 20.8 million (mid-1983)                                                                                                    P    Sa e   Io
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 750 (1983)                                                                                                            Pae   sf7
IORI&CO - xTIUhL TRADE
-Amount
Indicator                     (million USS at                           Anmwfl Growth ft.a (IX  tat constant 19A0 mriceaS
current prices)                            Attual RrI1aetad
_______________________         9"                  1211    1912    1912    191*3l/  19213 /         192i1    1912    1921    1219    1MM0
E!ituUAL tRAD
Merchandise exports (FOB)             2169                  2.9      1.1    10.3      5.1       5.8          S.1      7.3     *.2      7.4     5.3
PrImary products                    1250                 -3.6   -11.4      8.6      3.7      5.3           4.3      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Phosphate rock                     524                 -5.6   -10.1      5.4      2.7      3.0           3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Others                             726                 -2.2   -12.4      5.7      4.4      6.9           5.2     2.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Intermadiate & wanufactures          919                 21.9    30.0    17.7       7.0      6.5          13.2    13.7    14.0    11.9       7.4
Merchandise iorts (CIF)              390r                  2.9      S.8    -8.4      7.1     -4.3           2.5      2.9     2.6      2.5     3.2
Food                                U40                  23.1   -13.3    -4.9    26.6       -3.0           3.0     3.1      3.2     3.3      3.3
Fuels                               it'l                 10.6    -1.8      1.1      4.0     -2.0           2.4      2.5     2.8     2.8      2.9
Machinery and equipment              733                 -7.7    31.4   -27.2       3.5    -15.1          -2.0    -0.7      2.5      2.5     2.9
Others                              1490                 -S.O    12.7    -S.S       0.5      0.7           4.1      4.2     4.8      4.3     3.3
PRICS (1980 a 100)
Export price index                      .                 120.7   124.4   125.9   166.7    173.7           206.1   249.3   276.7   307.3   141.3
Import price index                                        130.0   142.2   1S3.4   191.0    211.1           239.0   281.2   304.6   123.5   358.3
Terms of trade index                                       92.8    37.5    88.6    87.3       82.3          3.2   U3.7    90.8    93.0    95.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (A) Aara  Amnal Iner*aa.
fat  eurrent nri e      r s           (qrntant 19f grices                               or s
191    1127 0I1  1990-*5    191S-Ad                                          192ffi:,    1292- S9flS
Exports                                                                                    -1.3         7.0              5.3         7.5        5.2
PrIm_ry products                   36.9    74.4    57.3    47.2    42.6                -2.9         5.4             -0.3        3.2         3.1
Intermdiates * manufactures        13.1    25.6    42.7    52.8    57.4                 7.9        12.7             16.7       12.4         7.0
lports                                                                                     9.0         0.7              0.4        3.2         6.6
food                               25.0    16.9    18.3    18.3    16.0                14.0         2.9              1.1        3.2         3.7
Petroleum                          10.8    23.6    26.0    25.4    24.3                 9.6         5.2              2.1        2.7         5.6
Machinery and equipment            24.0    13.9    15.0    13.5    18.5                12.8        -7.3             -3.5         1.2       13.5
Others                             40.2    40.6    40.7    42.3    41.2                 5.3         2.8              0.7        4.2         5.7
Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with                     Share of Trade with
Industrial Countr1ms III            DO vlonina Countries 111             Capital Suralus Oil Exfartors III
1960      1970       1921          1960       1922       1921 *19SO                      1922       191*
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                              72.3      73.7       76.5           27.7       25.4      21.6                  ..         0.9         1.9
Imports                              76.7      74.9       72.9           23.3       25.1       8.3                   ..         ..        13.8
I/  Estimte
October 183 1985
EHENA CPIU. 39399



- 36 -
Population    I 20.8 million (mid-1983)                                                                                                           ANN14
GNP Per Capita:  USS 750 oIlS8                                                                                                                Page 7 of 7
sRCO   - BLA[NCEOF PAYMfETS. EXTERnAL CAPITAL AND DET
(msillsn USfiat current prices)
IndicaLor                                              Actual                                                   Pro'ected
10    1211    1211  2    .13       I   2/  12l it               12C1    132    113    13          12
RALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services          4364    4132    3843    3921    3975        3988                4520    5209    6036    6978    7977
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    2414    2283    2043    2016    2169           2106               2457    2935    3525    4205    4912
Imports of goods and services          5912    6095    5912    4888    5000        4787              s5il    5648    6393    7060    7753
Of whiCh:  Merchandise f.o.b.    4284    4363    4335    3627    3904           3637               3839    4258    478:    5368    6005
Net current transfers                   128      102     170       94       61       64                  69       75      a]       87      94
Current account balance               -1420   -1861   -1899    -873    -964        -735                -514    -364    -277         6     3)1
net Oirect Foreign Investment           109       73     102       47       51       56                  62      68       71       82      91
Official Grants                          97      313     124      142       16      300                   -        -
mLT loans (net)                        1036    1103    1354       230     442       781                 656     S64      328      182    -121
Official                            722    1033       740      340     372       595                 648     560       S8    -386    -699
Private                             314       70      614    -110       70       186                   8       4      270     568      178
Other capital (net)                      22      336     395      297      468     -212                -135    -232    -154    -179    -152
Change in reserves                      156       36     -76      157      -13     -191                 -69      -36      28      -91    -136
International reserves                  814     $10      540      376     266       457                 526     562      534     625      761
Of which:  Gold                     415      280      322      269     217       217                 217     217      217     217      217
Reserves as months imoorts              1.7     1.0      1.1      0.9     0.6       1.1                 1.2     1.2      1.0      1.1      1.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND BEET
Gross disbursements                    1711    2047    2230       982    1101      1565
Official Grants                       97     313      124      142       16      300
Concessional loans                   761     889      557      209     274       378
OAC                              100      126      125      49      134       177
OPEC                             584      746      401     115       79       124
IDA                                I        1        I       1        3        2
Other                             76       16       30      43       58        74
bon-concessional loans              854      841    1549       631     811       887
Official export credits           12       54      103      10      135        as
r8a0                              64       99      134     174      240      402
Other multilateral                13      123       70      23       24        47
Private                          765      570    1243      383      416       354
Suppliers credits               8       26      52        8       16       19
Financial credits & bonds   758        543    1191      375     400       335
E.ternal Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed   7109    7983    9054    9445   10347    11513
Offtilal                        3496    4373    5004    S894    6579         7450
Private                         3612    3610    4049    3552    3768        4062
Undisbursed debt                   z154    3146    2417    3658    3093         2359
Debt service
Total service oayments I/          1193    1266    1334    1120    1196          99O
Interest                         614      634     5al    S5o        548      506
Payments as t exoorts of G.S 2/  27.3    30.6    34.7    28.6    30.1           24.8
Average interest rate on new loans (5)  8.2         8.4    10.1      7.4      7.4      8.4
Official                                3.8     3.7      6.9      5.5     6.7       n.a.
Private                                13.4    13.7    11.8    10.1    11.8         n.a.
Average maturity of new loans (years)  13.7         9.5    11.0    IS.9    17.5       12.6
Official                               18.6    11.6    19.7    21.1    20.3         n.a.
Private                                 7.9     7.1      6.3      7.6     6.1       n.a.
As 1 of Debt Outstandina at End of Mo t Recent Year :19831
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                    49.4
Maturities due within 10 years                                   80.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due wiLhin first year                                    5.8
g, Estimate
I/ After rescheduling                                                                                                                   October 30, 1985
Z/ Services include workers  remittances                                                                                                   ENEMA CP 1l-8
ID 3939tOZ



- 37 -
STATUS E BANK DUPRATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AMD IDA CREDITS
(As of Septenber 30. 1985)
Lown or                                                    Arount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              usi Hillign
flit   XMYr         Barroer              Purosn           Dank       a       UnMd flburse
Thirty five Loans fully disbursed                      1.047.47
Five Credits fully disbursed                                        45.16
1416    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture         41.0                 14.00
1602    1978   Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          50.0                 34.96
1681    1979   Kingdom of Morocco    Education            88.0                 58.75
169S    1979   Kingdom of Morocco    Power                42.0                 19.66
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply        49.0                 12.13
1757    19860   Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture         44.0                 15.55
1830    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways            62.0                 12.38
1848    1980   Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          24.0                 16.85
1943   1981   CII1                    Tourism            100.0                 37.39
1944   1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Oevelopment  25.0                   19.16
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply        87.0                 64.69
2037    1982    DUDE                  DFC                 70.0                 41.44
2038    1982   Kingdom of Morocco    OFC (SSI)            40.0                 37.37
2082    1982   Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          24.0                 21.97
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    1ining               9.5                  7.63
2110   1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Forestry             20.5                 17.26
2114    1982    ONAREP                Oil Shale           11.2                  4.16
2149    1982   Kingdom of Morocco    Education            38.0                 30.84
2217    1983   Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          30.0                 28.79
224S    1983    CIH                    Housing DeGt.      60.0                 56.81
2253    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture         42.0                 40.89
2254    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways            85.0                 81.79
2271    1983    ONAREP                Oil Exploration    75.2                  38.33
2272    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Village Infrastr.  16.0                  15.30
2367    1984    CNCA                  Agric. Credit      115.4                 56.99
2477    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Voc.Training        27.1                 27.03
2487    1985   Kingdom of Morocco    Elec.8. Mec.Ind.*   25.1
ZS08   1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Jerada Coal Min." 27.0
2S90    1986   Kingdom of Morocco    Agr.Sec.Adj.'t    100.0
2604    1986   Kingdom of Morocco    2nd Ind.-Trade"  200.0
Total                                              2675.47    45.16
of which has been repaid                          448.28      2.37
Total now outstanding                              2227.19    42.79
Amount Sold                       20.11
of which has been repaid        20.11               0.0       0.0
Total nw held by Bank and IDA                      2227.19    42.79
Total undisbursed                                                        81212
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTHENTS
(AS of September 30. 1985)
SS HMillion
Fiseal Year                                                 Li        Emait.   Total
1986           Frumat              Food & Food Processing   5.7                  5.7
1963/1978/1984  DNDE               Development Bank         37.6      2.7       40.3
1966           CIL                 Canning Factory           0.9       0.5       1.4
1976           Marrakech Cement  Cement Factory               -        1.2       1.3
1977/1980      Temara Cement       Cement Factory            4.7       3.6       8.3
1979            Agadir Cement '**   Cement Factory          12.5       2.2      14.7
1980           SOHIFER             Copper Mining            13.0       2.3      15.3
198111983      Casablanca Cement Cement Factory             15A        2A       IZ7.
Total Gross Conmitments                                   90.2      14.5     104.7
Less cancellation. terminations. repayments and sales  41.        -LA       44.
Total comitments now held by IFC                          48.8      11.1      59.9
Total Undisbursed                                          5.7       0.3       6.0
* Became effective January. 1986.
Became effective October. 1985
A Agadir Cawnt has been cancelled.
I0.6479B p2
02/13/86



-38-
ANNEX III
KINGDOM OF NOROCCO
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
SUPPLEM3NTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:                Four years
(b) Project preparation responsibility:           The Moroccan Government and
the Bank
(c) Project first identified by the Bank:         October 1983
(d) Bank appraisal mission:                       April-May, 1985
(e) Negotiations:                                 January. 1986
(f) Board presentaZion:                           March, 1986
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:                June, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions and Proram Actions
(a) Conditions of disbursement of zta second tranche (US$75 million) are
summarized in paragraph 78.
(b) Other program actions are documented in the attachment to the policy
letter.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STATEMENT OF EDUCATION SECTOR POLICY
Since Independence, government efforts in the education sector have
focussed principally on expanding schooling capacity, on Moroccanizing
teaching staff, and on developing new course offerings consistent with the
needs of an ezpanding economy.
As a result of these efforts, the education system experienced rapid
expansion throughout the 1970s--particularly in the area of higher education,
where enrollments increased at an average annual rate of over 192 between 1965
and 1978.  This policy was appropriate in view of the growing demand for
higher-level administrative staff in the economy and in the civil service.
This significant expansion and diversification of enrollments,
intended in part to meet the needs of expanding civil-service recruitment,
where accompanied by a major increase in Government investment and recurrent
expenditures.   Whereas  the  Ministry  of  Education  (MOE) budget  in  1975
constituted 12.51 of the total central Government budget, it had risen to
22.91 in 1984. The MOE recurrent budget during the same period increased from
14.91 to 28.5S of total Government recurrent budget (excluding caisse de
compensation and debt service payments).
Mindful of the difficulty of maintaining such rapid growth of
education expenditures in the context of Morocco's recent economic and
financial constraints, as well as of significant efforts of adjustment in
other sectors, the Government in 1980 convened the Colloque V'Ifrane in order
to start the process of defining a new education strategy and to establish a
National Commission which would establish priorities for future development of
the education sector. Following this initiative, the MOE adopted a series of
measures designed to limit the growth of expenditures and to improve the
efficiency of the education system. These measures figure among the policy
changes negotiated with the IMF under the April 1983 Standby Credit
Agreement. That accord stipulated that the Government was to establish with
the World Bank a set of policy measures to limit education expenditures while
at the same time maintaining essential programs and improving the efficiency
of the education system at all levels.
Consistent with these objectives, the MOE has introduced a number of
significant reforms since 1982.  The most important of those reform measures
are summarized as follows:



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
-    At the university level,  several  restrictions  limiting  fellowship
eligibility were put into operation in October 1982 in order to
reduce the budgetary burden of these expenditures and to promote
improved student performance. Fellowship amounts were reduced by SOZ
for  students  attending  faculties  in  their  town  of  residence.
Fellowships were also reduced by 50S (or suspended altogether for
resident students) for students whose inadequate performance obliged
them to repeat a year of classes.  Fellowships for studies abroad
were limited to courses of study not available in Morocco, and were
suspended  for class  failures  of more than one year.  During the
1983/84 school year alone, these measures yielded savings of 60
million dirhams in fellowship payments, all in foreign exchange.
-    As of 1983, the pre-salaires of 1,030 dirhams per month formerly paid
to students in training to be secondary teachers were replaced with
stipends of 547 dirhas per month. This measure led to savings of
more than 20 million dirhams in 1983/84, and about 120 million
dirhams in subsequent years.
-    Two important measures to improve primary and secondary student flows
were introduced in 1983: Class repetition was limited to a total of
two years in primary schooling and two years in secondary schooling,
and a maximu age limit of 15 years was imposed for primary
schooling. These measures are having a salutary effect on teaching
quality by bringing about more homogeneous  classes.   By  helping
relieve the congestion at the end of primary schooling, they are also
improving the flow of students into lower secondary schooling.
Although these initiatives are very welcome, they constitute only the
first steps toward a necessary general reform of the education system. High
unit costs of schooling reflect in large part the continued excessive
repetition  and  dropout  rates  at  all  levels.   Inefficiency  in  use  of
educational resources is a cause of concern not only for its own sake, but
also  because  it  implies  that available  teaching  resources  are providing
schooling to fewer school age children than might be served under more optimal
use.
Following an education sector survey carried out jointly by the MOE
and the World Bank in 1981, the Government has committed itself to implement a
reform program to improve the quality and efficiency of the education system,
while at the same time limiting the growth of education expenditures.   The
objectives of the reform at each level are as follows:
Primary and Secondary Schooling
-    Generalization of a nine-year program of basic schooling, involving a
significant expansion of capacity at the current lower-secondary
level (grades 6-9); and



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
-    Improvement of student flows at all levels through adoption of new
promotion criteria, revision of curricula, improved teacher training,
measures to promote enrollments in rural areas, and provision of
basic taching materials.
Sigher Education
-    Rationalization of investment and recurrent expenditures;
-    Adaptation of university education to priority national needs;
-    Improvement  of  internal  efficiency  through  introduction  of  a
credit-hour system and improved teacher quality; and
-    Further  restriction  of  fellowship  eligibility  based  on  academic
performance and student needs.
The attainment of these objectives implies a reallocation of
educAtion resources from higher education to basic education, and revision of
school construction norm= designed to bring about reduced unit costs.
The Reform Program
The proposed program of adjustment, elaborated in collaboration with
the World Bank, describes the framework of the education reform. The basic
objectives of the reform are to make the education system more responsive to
the needs of the economy and to control the growth of education costs. These
goals are to be accomplished through expanded and reinforced basic schooling
and vocational training, and through stabilized enrollments in upper secondary
and  university  education.   More  specifically,  the  reform  program  would
introduce: (a) generalized schooling in a nine-year  compulsory program of
basic education; (b) improved student flows at all levels; (c) modifications
in basic schooling content consistent with the objectives of basic education;
(d) reduction  of dropout  and  repetition rates  in basic  schooling,  to be
achieved in part through introduction of remedial  instruction;  (e) limited
access to upper secondary schooling; (f) limited access to higher education;
(g) stronger measures  to improve student performance  in higher education;
(h) more efficient use of teaching staff in secondary and higher education;
(i) control of construction costs for primary and secondary schools;
(j) reduction of the proportion of non-teaching staff in secondary schooling;
(k) increased teaching hours in secondary and higher education; (1) reduced
need for new school construction via improved maintenance of existing schools;
and (m) more intensive use of primary and secondary classrooms.
In order to carry out the program of reform, the Government commits
itself to make available on a timely basis the necessary budgetary credits.
The specific measures comprising the reform program are described in greater
detail in the attached Description of Reform Measures and Implementation
Schedule (Attachment 1 to Annex A).  The Government has already begun  to
implement a number of the most important reform measures.



ANNEX IV
*tttWot I
PK1sg    rOI   OF i
SUMMARY OF IUSIMS A8O DWLDWMTATIN SHEf
IMPLEfMETATHI(*S~40L
Policy Measures                                  First-Year Program                     Second-Year Progrm                      Hadium-Term Progras
Actions Taken             (4Condition of 2nd Tranche felease)
A. Expand Access La Basic Educatjgn
1. Expand primary and lower
secondary school intakes as
per MOE program Presented
in Anex A. AttachrenL 2.
a. Expand nudier of sludentb        Government has provided adequate        ^mlamp nt 2,900 classroom           Oevelop school MP and
admitted to grade I of           FY86 financing to support school        building program according to       building progiaM  for re_otest
primary school from 405,600    building program for 2.900 class-         criteria satisfactory to the        areas.
in 19814 to 447,770 In 1915     room per Year average over period    Bank.  Confirm availability of
and 475,000 In 1986.             1916/87.                                adequate FY87 financing to
m_intain building program.
b, Expand lower secondary           HOE raised grade 5 promotion rate       HOE to further Increase             Naintain progress In livroving grade 5
school Intakes (grade 6)         froam 37.9% In June 1914 to 49.03 In   grade h     protion rate to 143 In  prootion rates In subsequent years to achieve
as per MOE proram presented   June 1955 to achiese 219,500               June 19U so as to achieve grade  grade 6 Intake growth targets as per WOE
In Annex A. Attachment 2.       grade 6 new intakes In October           6 new enrollment target for         proram presented In Anwx A. Appoendix 2.
1981.                                  October 196 (2331.96 ).
c. Promote basic schoolling In                                                1. Carry out program for            1. Maintain the progrm. HOE to evaluate
rural areas, with particular                                                  construction of primary             imact on enrollments In rural areas.
attention to encouraging                                                      schools equpsed with teacher
feale enrollments,                                                            housing and student cafeterias
in r_ote rural areas, In
accordance with criteris
accptable to the Bnk.
Ii. Carry out the study to          II.  mlamment and monitor multigrade
develop program of multi-           teaching prosram In rte rural ares.
grade teaching.
III. Give preference to fa_ le    III. Maintain policy of preferential assign-
teachers in assigning              m nt of *  _le teachers.
teachers to rural primary
schools with teacher
housing facilities.
DoC 271W



ANNEX IV
Attach ent 1
Page 2 of a
KIG    F Hs=~
PROPO5EII EOUATIN SiEIau BEMay PWGA*M
SIAARYOF ~$SMfS AMA nut iUUTATIOU SCHEDIAE
1I.PLEjKTATIOU SCEDL
POMi.y I4easures                                   First-Year Proorme                     Second-Vear Proerm                       Ibdiuin-Teru Proaran
Actions Taken              (maCwndtilon of EM  Tranthet Release)
d. Iprove student flows in           See item II                              See item  U1                         See Item It
primary and secondary
schooling according to
Annex A. Attachment 2
schedule, through wasureb
listed In ttem 11. below.
B. ReuLao.     gLhf..Umne
_.Wanary.-Hiaher Educatj.o
1. Restrain growth of upper
secondary school initakes as
per schedule presenited in
Annex A. AttacIvAnt 2.
a. Reduce grade 9 promotion        HOE reduced grade 9 promostion rate    3W)E to reduce grade 9 promotion  Establish grade 9 promtion
rate accordinig to schedule    from 56.3% In June 1984 to 52.0Z in   rate from 52.OZ in June 1915 to   rates for subsequent years to
presented In Annex A,           June 1985 so as not to exceed             45% in June 1986 so as not to       maintain grade 10 Intake growth 
Attachment 2.                   899500 new enrollments in grade 10    exceed 90,100 newt enrollments           as per schedule presented in
in 1985/86 school year.                  in grade 10 In 1986/87 school        Annex A. Attaciamnt 2.
year.
b. Establish new diploma for                                                 HOE to introduce the new             WOE to maintain award of new
satisfactory completion of                                                diploma in June 1916.                terminal diplom.
basic educ&.tion (grade 9)
f or those st.udents not
progressinig to upper
secondary level.
c. Develop program of                                                        *Initiate study to develop new    Compete plan for program:
career guidance In)                                                       progra.                              Zmlemnt progrem.
lower secondary
schooling.
Doc 2759V



ANNEX IV
Attachlent 1
Page 3 of a
KIMG0OM Of HnR=OCC
PROPOSED FUCATION SECIOR REFOWI PJRAW
SUMMARY OF HEASUREs AID IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
I. REALLhATINH
IMPLENETATION SCHEDULE
Policy measures                                   First-Year Program                    Second-Year Program                      Medlua-Teru Program
(Actions Taken)            V3:Condition of 2nd Tranche Release)
2. Restrain growth of higher
education intakes and en
rollments as per schedule
presented in Annex A,
Attachment 2.
a. Institute control               MOE limited growth of new intakes        'MOE to limit overall               MOE to maintain 2X limit on annual growth
of admission to                 in university faculties in 1985/86    growth of new intakes in               of new intakes to university faculties.
university faculties            school year below 2X ceiling.           university faculties so as
not to exceed 2n growth
ceiling for 1986/87 school year.
b. Cancel second-phase             Government has cancelled correspond-  No new credits to be made              Evaluate needs in higher education.
investment program for          ing budget credits, equivalent to       available for university
iLsu&tur c  do rarImLiQa        US$100 million.                          investments.
Dosi.stgCndaire
c. Develop an end af                                                      MHE to implement in June 1936.    MOE to maintain award of new certification.            s>
secondary cerLificaLloi1
to be distinct from
passing baccalaureat
exam.
d. Diversiry university                                                      Initiate study to prepare credit Complement study and implement program.
courses                                                                 hour system and program of short
courses.
a. Restrain growth of recurrent  See iLem IIIA.                            See item IIIA.                       Sc' item IIIA.
expenditures on highier
education through measure%
proposed under category
IIIA, below.
Doc 2789V, p57



ANNEX IV
AttachInt I
Page 4 of I
...WRnN O  ICCD
PROPOSED EDUr=    OSECTOR REFO4 PRRAM
SU44ARY OF MEASURES AND IW LEHENTATION SCHEDULE
II. EDUCATION EFFICIENCY
IHPLEMENTATIOh SCHEDULE
Policy Heasures                                     First-Year Program                      Seco.id-Year Proram                        Medium-Term Program
(Actions Taken)              VaConditiOn of 2nd Tranche Release)
A. Proaressivelv RedujR
Repetition and  rEaguL_Riij
in Primary and SecondAjY_UtmQg11ag
1. Expand intakes to lower              Section lAlb.                             See Item IAIb.                        See Itm IAlb.
secondary schoolinsg.
2. Limit total number of class          MOE Is applying these new class           HOE to maintain new restric-          HOE to maintain restrictions on class
repetitions to 2 years in            repetition restrictions.                  tions on class repetition.            repetition.
primary cycle (grades I SJ,
2 years in secondary cycle
(grades 6-12).
3. Develop remedial                                                               'Initiate study to develop pro-   Finalize and implement program of remedial
instruction for studenis                                                       gram of remedial instruction.         instruction in teacher training and in
with learnitng problemb.                                                                                             basic schooling.                                     a.
4. Improve supply of basic              Goverrvnent has increased per-student  'Distribute improved supply of    Haintain improved supply of basic teaching                   I
educational materials In            budget appropriatlons for basic            basic teaching materials to all   materials to all primary and secodary
primary and becoaidary              educational materials to 10 dirhams   primary schools in accordance              schools.
schooling                           at primary level and 45 dirhams at    with guidelines satisfactory
the upper secondary level, and has    to the Bank.
developed a satisfactory list of
basic educational materials to be
provided to all primary schools.
Doc 2789V



ANNEX IV
Attacl ent I
Page 5 of I
PROPOSED EOUCATIOO SECTOR REFOII P0GEAN
SLHARY aF MEASURES AND !bWLENUTATION SCNEDULE
11. EDUCATION EFFICIENCY
_  WLEbTATIO  5IHEDULE
Policy Measures                                    First-Year Program                     Second-Year Prooram                      Medium-Term Progrm
(Actions Taken)             (O=Condition of 2nd Tranche Release)
B. Strenathen StudenLfterformnce
Incentives in Htaher EducatLogl
1. Reduce fellowships by 50% for        lnplemented.                              Maintain Policy.                    Maintain policy.
first-time repeat students
pursuing university studles in
Morocco in a city other than
their place of residence; suspend
fellowship for subsequent class
repetitions. Reduce fellowships
by 5So for all students Pursuing
university studies in Morocco
in their city of residence;
suspend fellowships for any
repeated classes.
2. Suspend foreign fellowships for   MOE has Issued directive on                 MHOE to Iplement policy.             Maintain policy.
all students repeating more than  implemaentation.
one year of studies.
3. Develop and implement credit         MOE has initiated study to develop    MOE to coeplete study to develop  Impleznt credit-hour program.
hour system.                         credit-hour program.                     credit-hour progrn.
Doc 2769V, pS9



ANNEX IV
Attachment I
Page 6 of a
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PROpOSED EDUCATIOIN SECTOR REFORH PROGRAM
SUMMARY OF MEASURES AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
111. COST REODICTION/COST RECQVERY
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Policy Measures                                       First-Year Program                      Second-Year Program                         Medium-Term Program
(Actions Taken)              ('^Condition of Znd Tranche Release)
A. RestraIin Growthgf.. H     rml
Expenditures on ilber.LdULailQLl
1. Impose registration fees in          MOE has prepared legal statute                                                     MOE to implement fee policy and monitor
all institutionis of higher          for introduction of registration                                                   cost recovery performance.  MOE to progress-
education.                           fees.                                                                              ively raise fees to improve cost recovery.
2. Raise Leacthing hours.                MOE issued instruction to deans            'maintain policy.                      Maintain policy.
or Faculties to raise average
required Leachirig hours by 20X,
Measure implemented Irn 1985/86
academic year.
3. Restore anrjznim    fnrmuSlc          MOE has issued circular on policy          HOE to institute anci*nn               MOE to progressively restore ancienn
for teacher training of              to directors of teacther training           formule for teacher training           formule for secondary teacher
upper secondary teachiers             institutions.  Goverment has can-    as per MOE proposal.  Review                 training, reallocate facilities and
(luuc.e plus one yedr                celled budgetary credits for new            draft program of inservice             staff to in-service teacher training.
pedagogical trdining) and            teacher training Institutions.              teacher training; reallocate
lower secondary teachers                                                         surplus teacher training staff
(two years university plus                                                       and facilities for inservice
one-year pedagogical training).                                                  training for existing teaching stafr.
4. Replace teacher training nrc          Government has implemented policy.    Maintain policy.                            Maintain policy.
auAi.snn with stipenids for all
levels of Leacher training
equivalent to university fellow
ship for graduaLe studies.
5. Reduce fellowshitps by SOt for    Policy lmplemented.                            'Maintain policy.                      Maintain policy.
first-time, non resloeent repeat
students in Morocco dnd %tudeIits
attending a faculty iii thieir
place of residence; Muspeald
fellowship upon first class
repetition by resident students
and second class repetitlon by
non-resident students.
Doc 2789V



ANREX IV
Attaclhent 1
Page 7 of a
KICIGOON OF MOJROCCO
PROPOSEO EDUCATION SECTOR R[FOIH PWGM
SULARY OF MEASURES ANa IWLEDETATION SCHEDULE
III. COST REOUCTION/COST RECOVERY
IWPLEHENTATIOII sCHEDULE
Policy Measures                                      First-Year Program                      Second-Year Program                       Medium-Term Program
(Actions Taken)             (VCondition of 2nd Tranche Release)
6. Reduce boarding In                   GoveriuienL has cancelled US$45            Govermuent to undertake no            Progressively reduce bodtding. and Increase
university Facilities;              million budgetary credit for new           new boarding facilities.              fees to Improve cost recovery. reallocating
strengthen cost recovery             dormitory construction.                                                         facilities and staff to higher priority uses.
7. Tighten fellowship eligibi-          HOE is limiting eligibility for             HONE to maintain policy.             HOE to maintain policy.
lity criteria for overseas           foreign fellowships according to
students.                            lihtg lifiLtaiyQ of special1iations
qualifying for foreign study fellow-
ships.
8. Impose income criterion              HOE has established matrix of              'OKE to implement income              "DE to maintain policy.
for fellowship eligi                 Income ceilings to be applied, In         criterion.
bility upon financial need.          determining eligibility for
university fellowships.
B. Cota cPimr   and 
JC;LW&r y school
Construction CgjSj
1. Reduce unit costs                    HOE has adopted revised primary           HOE to implement revised norm         MOE to Implemnt new cost-reduction
of primary and secondary             school construction norms satis-          in context of new school con-         masures.
school construction.                 factory to the Bank.                      struction program, and to com-
plete study on further cost
reduction measures.
2. Reduce school replace.                                                          ^Carry out study to develop           Implement school maintenance
ment requirements through                                                      maintenance program  for edu-         program.
improved school main                                                           cational facilities at all
tenance.                                                                       levels.
Doc 2789V, p61



ANNEX IV
Attachment I
Page 4 of a
KINGDOM OF MOROCCD
PROPOSED EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRHH
SUH44ARY OF MEASURES AND REFO4R SCHEDUJLE
III. COST REQUCTION/COST RECOVERY
IMPLEtNNTATION SCHEDULE
Policy Measures                                   First-Year Program                    Second-Year Program                     Medium-Term Progrm
(Actions Taken)            (4=Condition of 2nd Tranche Release)
C. 1mrirndu ct.iyiLy
oLfducati2annrsnnnAl
1. Reduce ratio of                    HOE has begun to reduce ratio of        I) HOE to continue to reduce        HOE to continue to reduce ratio of
administrative to                  adininlitrative/teaching staff in       ratio of secondary administra-    administrative to teaching staff.
teaching staff at                  secondary schooling as per indica-    tive to teaching staff as per         rmplement recommended measures to
secondary level.                   tors In scliedule presented in Annex   schedule presented In Annex A.    streamline secondary school admini-
A. Atachment 2.                         Attachlent 2.                       stration.
Mi) HOE to intiate study to
identify additional measures to
streamline secondary school
administration (See Item IIIAZ).
2. Raise universiLy teaciilag         (Sue Item 111A2)                        (See Item IIA2)                     (See Item IIIA2)
hours                                                                                                                                                            41
2. Raise secondary teachier           HOE achieved in 1985/86 school          HOE to maintain policy In order   HOE to maintain and mnitor  .asures for
productivity.                      year lower ratio of teachers per        to achieve performance targets    improved teacher productivity.
class as per schedule presented         as per schedule presented in
in Annex A. Attachment 2 through        Annex A, Attactmnt 2.
increaseo teaching hours and
improved planning of teacher
allocation.
0. SlranaLfm iQC  tLi buctor             HOE lias prepared draft legislation    'HOE to undertake study to           HOE to ipleent policy of strengthened
participationL in eduuLarln.          on private Investment incentives.       develop improved HOE support        HDE support for private schooling.
of private schooling.
Doc 2789V, p62



pRIJa  I5 SPAIN   ITJM7   CAE    T E
L 5TMOROCCO
4" IV' ~TUNIA                        - -M Main roads
* M0ROcCC9<      J                       -SaSondary roads
'IGEtIA             A                                                                LO
Oc                        LIBYA  IRePOr-            Tracks
...w  r -. ~~~~~  IL-.- TRailways                                                             LOL
!J    I i      ,~ - '                    Airports 
NIGER pfHA                      RvrsgSu.&4b
~LaSaA"1\t~-J    r _       Cr4AD  SUDAN             Rivem
JI"ttA\t, o 4vV NIGERIA ri                    Salt lakes                              RA
I IJINRA     LGktA Major irrigation perimeters                                   Mdnii
MADEItRA Pr                400 millimnter rainfall line   Casobn
Elevations above 1,000 meotrs  E    '
AfadM           -International boundaries            DOUKKA    , 
Internathion   boundaries  'appramate)
I                                                   Am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
./-3ff6 v~APPRO
CANARY IStANDS                      t                        ,   f   '4
{Seai"s~~~~~~~Sans Shr (Wtr Sahara)_'
-26' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~'
S...  -l
-20' Tos Te. /
CANArY ISLANDS                   URITA NI A,              U
25       Gob t Z_rG 
J 6I                                                            -
/Ci na
-2t    ws7/                        1    \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.o,
A&DOibb /        {  / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~N
I  rr                                               8~~~~~~
/  !  /Zmte                                         1~~~
2f ~       ~       J                       fs 
/     i}     M   A  U  R  I T  A  N   I  A              |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
|             I. GS.m qNogadhibo. *s          r;Aw      12  



IBRD 15252R2
-- ,' 4SPA I N.    -A                                      Sea
-                                                                                  itMed,terron aon    Seo                                -
.     ir .                                 MDsagn
;,              ,,faMotnOl 
r,IkIZ     ~        .IoCmwJ                     Ain-T.naij..
SouI.-eI.Ad be-d-R     C Olban<                 .,          0 i JI: nul-  emcen             id.
fRt.1 Me
RAB - i^XX* o
MAohonmmeia                               5*e.te  )i cw .      B.c*Muhs.
- -- line             ~~~CasablancaH
moters                 Eljd
(approximate)
the former        Soft                       T...        ICaibo Tadb         _-
n Sahara)                                               8 _  Ma,,.
Enaocuiro    r.k- ,,.
Agodi   i-- .Agi* .
A                       ) ~~.       t       ,/ >A P/ O
'-r     ofrul'             tAP^                             /
_ T.e                      s            /                                                                                    )           2e
}rrT.ndosA
N,~~~~~~~-
---    t.                                               ~~ALI G               NRIA N,.'
i  M    A   L  I                                         
\             ~~~~KILOME- TERS o     iio        200        i00         *no
R   I  T   A   N1  1  A                       j                                                                              1.I
! b m~~P... v.. r..rh.  v. tb_ Mnflo .1 Ih. *1Ut, .V'     .
MARCH 1986






