Docement of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
Report No. 14445
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2656-MOR)
MAY 4, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2656-MOR)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =       Dirham (DH)
US $ 1.00                =        DH 10.00
DH 1.00                           US $ 0.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GOVERNMENT OF KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL                Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CMV                 ORMVA Local Development Centers
(Centre de mise en valeur)
CNCA                National Bank for Agricultural Credit
(Caisse nationale de credit agricole)
DEAR                MARA's Central Department for Agricultural Training and Research
(Direction de 1'enseignement agricole et de la recherche)
DER                 MARA's Central Department for Rural Construction
(Direction de l'equipement rural)
DPA                 MARA's Provincial Directorate for Agriculture
(Direction provinciale de l'agriculture)
DPAE                MARA's Central Department for Planning and
Economic Affairs
(Direction la planification et des affaires economiques)
DPV                 MARA's Central Department of Crop Production
(Direction de la production vegetale)
FERTIMA             National Fertilizer Marketing Company
INRA                National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut national de la recherche agronomique)
MARA*               Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere de l'agriculture et de la reforme agraire)
MIPs                Management Improvement Plans
ORMVAs              Regional Agricultural Development Offices
(Offices regionaux de mise en valeur agricole)
SAGI                Secretariat for the Improvement of Large-Scale Irrigation
(Secretariat a l'Amelioration de la Grande Irrigation)
* The current name of MARA is MAMVA (Ministere de l'agriculture et
de la mise en valeur agricole)



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                             May 4, 1995
MIMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Morocco
Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
Attached is the abovementioned Project Completion Report. Parts I and III were prepared by
the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. No Part 11 from the Borrower has been received.
This sub-sector project was to finance specific civil works for maintenance and upgrading (43
percent of base costs), and vehicles and equipment for improving O&M (27 percent) on Morocco's 9
large irrigation projects. The project had major sectoral reform objectives reflected in 45 legal
covenants. These included devolution of authority and specific functions to regional agricultural
development offices (ORMVAs), and from ORMVAs to irrigators and private service providers. The
project also proposed recurrent cost financing (13 percent) and anticipated that irrigators would make
on-farm investments (9 percent). More efficient irrigation would waste less water, delivering more to
plants, thus increasing production. Future maintenance savings were to be a major benefit.
Civil works expenditures were 2.4 times projections; vehicles and equipment expenditures, 1.5
times, but the PCR says nothing about the relationship between agreed and actual works or about the
rationale for changes. Whether on-farm investments were made is unknown, so total project
expenditures are not known. The PCR reports disbursement problems due to the Borrower's
unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, despite its years of successful irrigation borrowing. Little of the
slated sector reform occurred. Most ORMVAs did not make management improvement plans. Some
divestiture of ORMVA services was achieved, mainly to sugar factories. Cost recovery and
contracting out maintenance increased but was far short of targets. Four covenants of the utmost
importance-those related to water users' associations, program contracts, management information
systems, and water-charge revision-were not honored. Only 29 percent of the participation tax was
collected. The coordinating committee never met. The mid-term review was cancelled.
Audit reports were received extremely late. Due to weak monitoring and accounting, it is not
possible to identify the effects of specific project actions. Nevertheless, the PCR reports general
increases in production and farm income due to higher-than-expected price increases, concluding that
the project rate of return might be close to the estimated 26 percent level.
The PCR's assertion of possible high returns is not supported by evidence. The project's
general failure to achieve institutional reform goals should not be excused because it has provided an
opportunity for officials to develop a positive attitude towards decentralization and project ownership
which have established good management foundations for the success of the second phase. While
many of this project's goals may well be realized by its successor, the project outcome is rated as
unsatisfactory, sustainability as uncertain, and institution building as modest. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2656-MOR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE  .....................................                                     i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ..........................
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                              I
1. Project Identity.                                                              1
2. Project Background .1
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                            2
4. Project Desin .4
5. Project Implementation.                                                        5
6. Project Results.                                                               7
7. Project Sustainability .11
8. Bank Performance .11
9. Conclusions and Lessons Learned .12
10. Borrower Performance ..........................    13
11. Project Documentation and Data .....................                         14
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . .    15
PART III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .......................                                  16
1.  Related Bank Loans  ............................                             17
2.  Project Timetable ..............................                             19
3.  Loan Disbursements  ............................                            20
4.  Project Costs .................................                              21
5.  Project Financing  ..............................                            22
6.  Status of Legal Covenants .........................                          23
7.  Missions  ...................................                               27
8.  Staff Inputs ..................................                             28
9.  Project Results ................................                             29
10. Project Implementation   ..........................                         31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2656-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Large-Scale Irrigation
Improvement Project, for which Loan 2656-MOR in the amount of US$46.0 million was approved on
February 25, 1986. The Loan became effective on January 6, 1987 and closed on June 30, 1993.
Actual disbursements totalled US$46.0 million or 100% of the originally approved Loan amount.
This PCR (Parts I and HI) was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office on the basis of a country visit in March 1994, a draft
completion report and progress reports prepared by the Borrower, the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Loan Agreement and a study of the files.






iii
PROJECT CONMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2656-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives and Description
The Project's overall objectives were to provide for greater efficiency of existing
resource utilization and for improved management and financial performance of 400,000 ha of large-
scale irrigation (LSI) schemes managed by the nine ORMVAs. The Project also sought to further
divestiture those ORMVA agricultural services which would be better provided by the private sector.
Specifically, the Project sough to: (a) improve irrigated water resource efficiency through selected
rehabilitation works which would increase on-farm water availability by some 25% in 150,000 ha of
irrigation networks to be improved under the Project; (b) improve operations and maintenance (O&M)
conditions in all LSI schemes in order to avoid repeated investments for rehabilitation; (c) stimulate
crop and livestock production by increasing on-farm irrigation water -- this was expected to increase
cropping intensity in sub-project areas from 113% at appraisal to a projected 135% at full
development; (d) improve ORMVA organization and management efficiency; (e) transfer various
activities and services to the cooperative sector; (f) increase the ORMVAs' financial autonomy,
thereby reducing the need for budgetary support by the Government; and (g) help the Government to
continue improving the cost recovery rate of the irrigation sub-sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
The Loan became effective on January 6, 1987. During the first years of Project
implementation, delays were caused by: a) the need to finish technical studies; b) the conclusion of
work, equipment, and study contracts; and c) the resolution of technical problems experienced in
infrastructure work.
Overall coordination of Project activities between the nine ORMVAs and the
Ministries was to be carried out by the National Project Coordination Committee (Comite National de
Coordination du Projet - CNCP), created in 1985 and presided over by the Minister of MARA. The
Committee never met, contrary to the Loan Agreement, and was eventually replaced by a
coordinating entity from MARA, the Secretariat for the Improvement of Large-Scale Irrigation
(Secretariat a l'Amelioration de la Grande Irrigation - SAGI). This lighter entity finally provided a
better and closer coordination of the project than the higher level but unfocused CNCP.
It was anticipated that an extensive study would be carried out in order to implement a
Management Information System (MIS) in each of the ORMVAs. By Project closing, only three
ORMVAs (Doukkala, Gharb and Tadla) were beginning to implement the MIS recommendations.
Two ORMVAs (Doukkala and Tadla) signed Management Improvement Plans (MIPs) with the
Ministry of Agriculture.



iv
Due to delays incurred by the MIS study and to weaknesses in the existing monitoring
systems, Project management, as well as the ORMVA directors, lacked viable indicators which would
permit the monitoring of Project implementation. The actual monitoring data are not readily
comLparable from one ORMVA to another. Thus, the resulting delays in the implementation of the
MIS and the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system could have negative repercussions for the
second phase of the Project (LSII-2) due to the lack of background data for the latter.
The transfer of ORMVA services to the private sector has been generally slower than
anticipated. The mid-term review scheduled for mid-1989 did not take place. It was replaced, by
mutual agreement, with a normal supervision mission. The ORMVAs were not audited in a coherent
and satisfactory manner. For the first three years of Project implementation, each ORMVA had its
own audit carried out. Since 1988, organization and monitoring of audits have been centralized under
MARA, but delays in auditing still persist. The MIS facilitated the standardization of audits and the
establishment of more adequate accounting systems. At Loan closing, 18 of the 45 covenants
contained in the Loan Agreement were honored on or before the established deadlines, 15 covenants
were complied with after the deadlines had been extended, and 12 covenants were not fulfilled at all.
Among the unfulfilled covenants, four clauses (Water Users Associations, Program Contract,
Management Information System and Revision of Water Charges) are most important for the whole
subsector and should have been enforced strictly. The 12 covenants have been incorporated into the
Loan Agreement for the second phase of the Project (LSII-2).
Sustainability
Changes at the institutional level. After initial resistance from the ORMVAs,
significant positive attitude changes took place over the course of Project implementation, both at the
central level (inter-ministerial dialogue and decentralization) and at the ORMVA level (cost
awareness, significance of the private sector, ORMVA reorganization to stimulate interdisciplinary
cooperation). These positive changes in attitude and management methods are examples of the
sustainability of Project improvements. Organizational reforms within MARA and the ORMVAs
have been completed and are now operational.
Regarding water management, irrigation systems are better managed now than they
were at the beginning of the Project, and farmers contribute more to O&M costs. However, it is
necessary to improve the rate of water fee recovery and to analyze whether the actual maintenance
costs of the irrigation systems are sufficient (Para. 6.4).
As for agricultural production, yields are increasing and will reach established targets,
due to improved distribution of water, better input utilization, and improved cropping methods.
However, outputs fell in 1993 due to drought and water shortage in certain perimeters. In Tadla,
Souss-Massa, and Ouarzazate, there are also soil salinization problems.
At the economic level, water consumption has improved at the farm level (+21%
instead of an estimated 27%). However, a USAID-financed project in Tadla assumed that farmers
still waste about 50% of available water. Financially, operations subsidies have been reduced, but
ORMVA cash flows are weaker than anticipated. An effort to streamline ORMVA financial
management is being extended to the second phase of the Project.



v
In terms of environmental impact, Project actions have not damaged the environment.
Infectious diseases such as bilharzia, which were identified during appraisal, have not increased.
However, malaria seems to be on the rise. The second phase of the Project includes an
enm-onmental monitoring component.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The Project consisted of two principal objectives: management improvement and
rehabilitation of large-scale irrigation systems in conformity with Government's policy of
decentralization and divestiture. Despite considerable initial delays, the Project achieved its physical
objectives, thereby demonstrating the Borrower's ability to carry out the technical aspects of the
Project. Institutional goals were only partially met: a) Government's administrative and financial
control over the ORMVAs have not decreased as much as anticipated; b) ORMVA divestiture vis A
vis the private sector has been partially carried out; c) management systems have barely been
implemented during the Project; this component will be carried out during the second phase of the
Project. The Project has provided an opportunity for officials at all levels to develop a positive
attitude toward decentralization and project ownership. However, the Project's financial results have
not achieved the results estimated at appraisal. It can thus be considered as having established good
management foundations for the success of the second phase, but this success also depends on the
ability of the ORMVAs to sustain their efforts at financial management during the Project's second
phase.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2656-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:        Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
Loan No.:           2656-MOR
RVP Unit:           Middle East and North Africa Region
Country:            Morocco
Sector:             Agriculture
Sub-sector:         Irrigation
2.    Project Background
2.01         The Project was identified in March, 1984 by a Bank mission. It aimed at increasing
cost recovery and productivity of large-scale irrigation schemes in Morocco and at institution-building
and rehabilitating infrastructure. In the 1970s inadequate cost recovery was a major issue; by the
mid-1980s amendments to cost recovery legislation and sizeable increases in irrigation water and
pumping charges had contributed to improving the situation. The Large-Scale Irrigation (LSI) Project
proposed to reduce some of the impediments to organizational efficiency and cost recovery by
improving operations and maintenance (O&M), increasing ORMVA revenues for better funding of
O&M, improving collection of water charges, and reorganizing extension services. The Project
followed several successful irrigation projects in Morocco, among them the Sebou I Project (Loan
643-MOR), the Doukkala I and II Projects (Loans 1201-MOR and 1416-MOR, respectively), and the
Souss Groundwater Project (Loan 1123-MOR).
2.02         Policy and sector context. To accelerate the modernization of Moroccan Agriculture,
the Government has provided considerable support for the development of irrigation. The share of
irrigation in public investments has been high, although it has declined since 1980, reflecting a shift
in Government policy towards a more balanced sectoral approach to agriculture in favor of the rainfed
and small and medium-scale irrigation (SMSI) sub-sectors. More than 65% of agricultural investment
expenditures during the seventies were for LSI. Under the 1981-85 Plan, this rate was reduced to
53 %. As a result of the stringent budgetary situation in the mid-1980s, yearly construction rates of
new irrigation schemes slowed to about half of what had been recorded during the previous decade:
8,000 ha/year from 1980-1985, compared to 16,500 ha/year in the 1970s.
2.03         The Government introduced substantial changes in its irrigation development policy
under the 1981-85 Plan. After a policy mostly oriented towards continued expansion of irrigation in
new areas and Government support and intervention in the irrigation sub-sector, Government's
objectives gradually shifted towards: (a) ensuring optimal use of water through maintenance;



2
(b) allocating a larger share of investments for the development of small- and medium-scale irrigation
schemes than in the past based on their lower development cost per hectare and their more rapid
build-up of benefits; (c) favoring investments in those LSI areas which are serviced by existing dams;
(d) Increasing farmers' contribution to water management and to recovery of O&M and investment
costs; and (e) establishing more effective extension services to improve cropping patterns, agricultural
farming practices and water saving technologies. A review of the agricultural development program
launched since 1981 confirms that Government has begun shifting its efforts toward these new
objectives, a trend continued under its Sector Adjustment Program (1985-1990).
2.04         Specifically, irrigation sub-sector objectives of the Government's Sector Adjustment
Program are described in the Government Statement on Irrigation Policy, which was prepared at the
time of ASAL. They are: (a) reducing the Government's administrative and financial control over the
ORMVAs in order to expedite contracting, regularize the flow of financial resources, establish
revolving funds to undertake urgently needed maintenance, and introduce of a system of contractual
maintenance; (b) establishing a system of medium-term contracts between the Government and each
ORMVA; (c) improving the ORMVAs' financial autonomy by introducing user fees to gradually
recover the full cost of ORMVA commercial services, while transferring to other organizations those
commercial services for which the private sector or cooperatives are ready; and (d) improving cost
recovery levels in order to reduce the total budgetary support to the ORMVAs. Measures to achieve
these objectives were to be taken under the project.
2.05         Despite continuous improvements and the generally high performance levels attained,
the potential of Moroccan irrigated agriculture is still far from being fully realized. Although water
and land use intensities are relatively high compared to countries with a comparable rainfall pattern,
there is still room for improvement within the existing schemes. Average irrigation water use
represents 80% of available water resources. Cropping intensity was 113% at appraisal and has been
projected to reach 135 % at full development. This offers scope for increases in productivity through
low-cost investments, improvements in water availability through better water management, O&M and
farming practices. Average yields have steadily increased but can be further improved, as has been
demonstrated in areas where higher levels of maintenance and rehabilitation have already been
ach ieved.
3.    Project Obiectives and Description
3.01         The Project's overall objective was to provide for more efficient use of existing
resources and to improve management and financial performance of the 400,000 ha of large-scale
irrigation schemes managed by the nine ORMVAs. The Project also sought to further ORMVA
divestiture from services which are better provided by the private sector. Specifically, the Project
aimed at: (a) improving water resource utilization through selected rehabilitation works which would
increase on-farm water availability by some 25% in the 150,000 ha of schemes to be improved under
the Project; (b) improving O&M conditions in all LSI schemes in order to avoid repeated investments
for their rehabilitation; (c) stimulating crop and livestock production by increasing on-farm irrigation
water -- this was expected to increase cropping intensity in the sub-project areas from 113% at
appraisal to 135% at full development; (d) improving ORMVA organization and management
efficiency; (e) transferring various activities and services to farmers' organizations and to the private
sector; (f) increasing ORMVA financial autonomy, thereby reducing the need for budgetary support



3
from the Government; and (g) helping the Government to continue cost recovery improvement in the
irrigation sub-sector.
3. 0E        To achieve its objectives, the Project carried out the following actions over a six-year
period:
(a)    an Investment Component, including:
-     rehabilitation or renovation of the existing irrigation infrastructure, serving a
total area of about 150,000 ha;
-     improvement of O&M systems over 400,000 ha of LSI schemes through multi-
year contracts with specialized firms for major complex maintenance works and
purchase of basic O&M equipment, including earthmoving equipment, spare
parts and telecommunications equipment; and
-     purchase of vehicles and data processing equipment, and construction of
housing for key O&M staff.
(b)    a Technical Assistance and Training Component, including;
-     technical assistance for management support and studies; and
-     training of ORMVA personnel, especially O&M staff, mechanics, accountants,
and other M&E staff.
(c)    an Institutional and Policy Reform Component, which would:
-     improve O&M efficiency, ORMVA-Government relations, and the ORMVAs'
financial situation;
-     improve recovery of water fees and transfer commercial services to the private
sector and cooperatives where feasible;
-     increase farmer participation in O&M; and
-     help resolve problems caused by water rights and collective land issues in the
LSI areas.
(d)    On-farm Investments.
3.03         Project management. Overall coordination of project implementation and institutional
development was designed to be implemented at the national level by a National Project Coordination
Committee (CNCP), created in November 1985 to monitor progress in project implementation and
institutional and policy reforms; review work programs and progress; resolve problems involving
different Government departments; review medium-term ORMVA development plans and MIPs; and
recommend any additiohal measures for the improvement of the ORMVAs' managerial, operational,
and financial situations. It was chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and included ORMVA



4
directors, MARA's central directors and representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Interior,
Equipment, Commerce and Industry and Economic Affairs. It was scheduled to meet at least every
six months. Since MARA's Rural Construction Department (DER) was to be involved in the largest
part of project activities, it assumed the Secretariat of the National Project Coordination Committee.
However, the CNCP never met and was replaced by an alternative entity within MARA, the
Secretariat for the Improvement of Large-Scale Irrigation (SAGI).
3.04          The DER was responsible for the overall monitoring of Project implementation,
including physical, institutional and policy components. It acted on behalf of MARA in dealing with
other ministries, discussing and implementing Project components, and ensuring the timeliness of
decisions taken. It was responsible for monitoring preparation by the ORMVAs of semi-annual
progress reports and for synthesizing these reports in an overall report submitted to the Bank. In
addition, MARA's Department for Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE) prepared annual reports
for submission to the Bank on the implementation of the ORMVAs' medium-term plans and MIPs.
3.05          The Project included four components of common interest to all ORMVAs. These
were: (a) training; (b) planning/management systems and computer use; (c) operations and
maintenance; and (d) cropping patterns. These activities were coordinated among the ORMVAs and
between them and MARA because they involved sectoral options that needed to be approved by
MARA. To ensure this coordination, four coordinating units were created to execute each
component, respectively. The training unit was created within MARA's Department of Agricultural
Training and Research (DEAR); the unit for planning/management systems and computer use within
MARA's Department of Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE); the O&M unit within MARA's
Department of Rural Construction (DER); and the cropping patterns unit within MARA's Department
of Crop Production (DPV). The staff of each unit included two to three persons seconded from the
ORMVAs. The work of these units was submitted to the appropriate central departments within
MARA.
3.06          Project cost and financing: At appraisal, total project cost, including taxes and duties
of about US$19.5 million (DH 195 million), was estimated at US$92.5 million (DH 925 million), of
which US$43.2 million (DH 432 million) was in foreign exchange. The Bank Loan of US$46.0
million was to finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the project, excluding incremental on-
farm investments financed by the beneficiaries (US$2.4 million) and CNCA (US$5.7 million). The
balance of funds was to be provided by the Government. The Bank Loan was thus to finance 50% of
the total project cost. It was to be made to the Government and utilized by MARA, passed on as a
grant to the ORMVAs (US$81.8 million) to the coordination units (US$2.6 million), and to the
farmers (US$8.1 million).
4.    Proiect Design
4.1           Close collaboration was established at the time of Project design (1984) between the
Government of Morocco (GOM), the FAO-CP, and the World Bank. The Project was designed
within the context of the Agricultural Sector Structural Adjustment Program (1984) and the
Government's Policy Report on development issues (which devotes an annex to the irrigation sector).
Project objectives and implementation means were clearly defined, shared, and deemed appropriate by
the parties involved.



5
4.2           The technical design of the rehabilitation works was carried out by MARA's Central
Department of Rural Construction (DER). Cost and duration of certain works were underestimated at
the time of appraisal. The institutional support component, especially the Management Information
Syst;:ms (MIS), was designed by Govermnent staff with some technical assistance. Project
implementation demonstrated the relevance of the component's technical concepts to the issues at
hand. However, a distinction between technical steps (implementation of the accounting systems) and
institutional steps (organization, legislation, program contracts) would have been extremely useful.
4.3           However, Project design did not foresee such problems as: a) the difficulty of
changing the attitudes of the ministries, the ORMVAs, the State-run processing industries (sugar
refineries), and the farmers in favor of Government divestiture and decentralization and ORMVA
divestiture and management streamlining; and b) the weakness of the current M&E systems, both in
the ORMVAs and at DER. Initial resistance to changes eventually hampered implementation of the
Project's institutional component, especially the MIS studies (para. 5.3). The weakness of the M&E
systems did not permit the identification of management indicators, nor did it provide for a means to
measure farmers' income. Finally, it did not isolate Project actions from other ORMVA activities,
which would have permitted the calculation of a rate of return.-
5.    Proiect Implementation
5.1           The Loan became effective on January 6, 1987, nine months after it was signed. The
delay was caused by the need to clarify the clauses concerning ORMVA organization and agreements
with the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA). At the beginning of Project implementation,
delays were experienced in: a) completion of various technical studies; b) contracts for works,
equipment, and studies; and c) resolution of certain technical problems during the construction of
infrastructure. By mid-1990, three and one-half years after approval, the Project had only drawn
30% of the Loan, instead of an expected 42%.
5.2           General Project coordination between the nine ORMVAs and the Ministries should
have been supervised by the National Project Coordination Committee (CNCP), created in 1985.
Although the committee was not dissolved, it never met, contrary to the Loan Agreement. The non-
utilization of this interministerial coordinating mechanism has caused several Project delays,
especially: a) establishment of legislation governing the signing of Management Improvement Plans
(MIPs) with the ORMVAs, resolution of the collective lands issue, clarification of the statutes of the
ORMVAs and their personnel; and b) MIS implementation. CNCP was replaced by a coordinating
entity within MARA, the Secretariat for the Improvement of Large-Scale Irrigation -- SAGI
(Secretariat a l'Amelioration de la Grande Irrigation). In spite of insufficient authority to promote
timely policy implementation, SAGI has been successful in ensuring an excellent close coordination of
project activities that the higher level and unfocused CNCP could not provide. However, since
Government's divestiture policy stresses the importance of attitude changes, it is possible that the
delays incurred have allowed attitude changes, thus providing a basis for reforms carried out at the
end of the Project.
5.3           A comprehensive study had been planned in order to implement a MIS in each
ORMVA. This should have permitted the establishment of a general accounting system, a training
program, and performance indicators for M&E and for the MIPs signed between Government and the
ORMVAs. This study should have been finished by the end of the second year (1988) for three



6
ORMVAs and by the end of the third year for the remaining six ORMVAs. By Project closing, only
three ORMVAs (Doukkala, Gharb and Tadla) had signed MIPs and two (Doukkala and Tadla) had
begun implementation of MIS recommendations. Delays were caused by a lack of coordination in
deif;.ing MIS priorities and needs, slowness in publishing adequate regulations, hiring and training
personnel, procurement and delivery of computer equipment.
5.4           Due to the delays incurred for the MIS and the shortcomings of existing M&E
systems, the Project office and ORMVA directors lacked the indicators needed to measure the
effectiveness of Project actions. It is also extremely difficult to compare data between one ORMVA
and another. The delays in the implementation of MIS and M&E instruments which rely on MIS data
could have negative repercussions for the second phase of the Project (LSII-2).
5.5           Transfer to the farmers' organizations and the private sector of services formerly
provided by the ORMVAsl/ has, for the most part, been slower than anticipated. For both technical
and administrative reasons, the ORMVAs, which are responsible for providing water to industrial
crops (about 68,000 ha of beets, sugar cane, and cotton), had greater difficulty in disengaging
themselves from agricultural services in cases where the processors were state-run enterprises
(Loukkos, Tadla) rather than private firms (Doukkala).
5.6           The Mid-Term Review scheduled for mid-1989 never took place. Instead, it was
replaced, by mutual agreement, by a routine supervision mission. This review might have revealed
the principal causes of delays and might also have brought together the Project's principal donors in
order to resolve problems. It had been anticipated that the farm investment component would be
financed by an estimated US$8.1 million from CNCA. CNCA's cumbersome procedures did not
facilitate the implementation of this component which, however, does not seem to have been
monitored during Project implementation and does not appear in any supervision reports. Some
investment was made by farmers, but it is impossible to determine the amount.
5.7           The ORMVAs were not audited in a standard, coherent manner before the Project.
For the first three years of Project implementation, each ORMVA had its own audit carried out.
Problems arose, including delays, methodological inconsistency, lack of audit credibility, and
insufficient data. Since 1988, audit operations have been centralized under MARA. However, delays
persist. Audit coverage has been extended to include ORMVA performance. After seven years,
auditor recommendations are still not followed. MIS implementation will facilitate auditing through
the establishment of adequate accounting systems.
5.8           By Loan closing, 18 of the 45 covenants contained in the Loan Agreement were
honored by the deadlines specified, 15 were complied with after the deadlines had been extended, and
12 covenants remained unfulfilled. Among the covenants not complied with, four are of the utmost
importance for the irrigation sub-sector: water users associations, program contract, management
information system and revision of water charges. These four covenants should have been enforced
in a stricter manner. The 12 unfulfilled covenants have been incorporated into the Loan Agreement
for the second phase of the Project (LSII-2, Loan 3587-MOR).
I     Includes sale of agricultural inputs, equipment, e,nd veterinary products; soil cultivation; insemination services; and
provision of advisors for cooperative management.



7
5.9           Disbursement problems were frequent during the first years of the Project due to the
Borrower's unfamiliarity with Bank procedures. The first withdrawal application was sent to the
Bank 18 months after Loan effectiveness. There were also delays in counterpart funds, which caused
delays in Project implementation at several construction sites.
5.10          Rehabilitation costs were higher than anticipated due to low estimates at appraisal,
contracting delays, technical implementation problems, and failures on the part of contracting firms.
Average rehabilitation cost varies considerably from one ORMVA to another and is estimated at
3,400 DH/ha (compared to 2,750 DH/ha estimated at appraisal). By Loan closing, the entire amount
of the Loan had been disbursed.
6.    Project Results
6.1           General LSI sector activities. Project officials agreed unanimously that the Project:
a) underlined the need for Government to increase its support of the LSI sub-sector; and b) stressed
the improvement of ORMVA management through decentralization and transfer of responsibility,
active participation of farmers, and involvement of the private sector. The development of new
attitudes favoring institutional changes has been recognized and appreciated by all levels. This is an
achievement both for the Project and for LSI development as a whole. The level of success is not
easy to quantify. Due to insufficient and heterogeneous monitoring data at both ORMVA and central
levels, the statistical data contained in this report can only be considered as possible trends. A simple
but effective monitoring system for financial and economic indicators should be implemented during
the Project's second phase.
6.2           Government divestiture of ORMVA operational costs. Government subsidies for
operational costs, in current public accounting terms,2/ have dropped from 191 million DH in 1986
to 114 million DH in 1993 (-28%), based on 1985 DH values. Excluding Ouarzazate and Tafilalet,
which do not collect water revenues, operating subsidies to the ORMVAs have dropped from 144
million DH in 1986 to 62 million DH in 1993 (-45%). Although calculations do not appear in the
Staff Appraisal Report, the decline appears to be less than anticipated (Para. 6.3).
6.3           Transfer of mana2ement responsibilities to the ORMVAs
a)     ORMVA organization. Each ORMVA now has an organizational chart which includes
the services planned during Project appraisal. Following ORMVA divestiture,
services to farmers and extension services were better focused. However, the number
of ORMVA personnel remained constant during this period;
b)     Management tools. Following the delays in the MIS studies (Para. 5.3), only three
ORMVAs (Douklcala, Gharb and Tadla) had implemented the recommended
management systems (inventory, analytical and general accounting, management and
performance indicators) before Project closing. The remaining ORMVAs will carry
2/    Subsidies for maintenance costs (supplies, occasional labor, contracts) and energy for pumping stations are currently
budgeted to equipment instead of operations.



8
out the MIS study during the Project's second phase. At the time of Project closing,
none of the ORMVAs were able to furnish MIS-based information for Bank review.
c)     Personnel training. Personnel employed in those services which were divested by the
ORMVAs (Para. 6.5) have been reemployed by the ORMVAs in other capacities. An
important technical training program was launched (mechanics, production techniques,
accounting, and computers). Management has thus far considered training to be more
of an awareness-building process than a hands-on experience. In spite of the delays in
implementation of the MIS, which was originally designed to coordinate training, an
estimated 1,000 staff members were trained (83 % of the estimated number). Due to
outdated personnel regulations, the ORMVAs have had difficulty in hiring and keeping
competent staff, especially in the areas of accounting and computers. This has
resulted in a decrease in the number of qualified staff.
d)     Management Improvement Plans between Government and the ORMVAs. These
contracts are designed to accelerate Government's policy of decentralization and
divestiture, Of the nine ORMVAs, two (Doukkala and Tadla) signed MIPs with the
Government five months before Project closing. Due to poor management systems
and lack of monitoring indicators, it is difficult for the supervising Ministries
(Agriculture and Finance) to monitor Project progress. No reform of personnel
management, which is regulated by a provisional statute dating from 1975, has been
undertaken. Nevertheless, the two MIPs will serve as the basis for the establishment
of similar arrangements between the remaining ORMVAs and the Government during
the Project's second phase.
e)     Autonomous financial management. At the beginning of the Project, all investments
for civil works, equipment, and studies above 500,000 DH, 300,000 DH, and 200,000
DH, respectively, required prior approval by the Ministries of Agriculture and
Finance. These ceilings have been raised to 2.5 million DH, 750,000 DH and
500,000 DH respectively, as was advocated during appraisal. Nonetheless, ORMVA
autonomy from the Ministry of Finance is only nominal, as the Agent of the Bureau of
Accounting (a Ministry of Finance official) is the only person entitled to make and
receive payments. This is the case even in the ORMVAs which have signed MIPs
with the Government (Article 3.2 of the MlPs).
f)     ORMVA financial statements. Financial statements provided by the ORMVAs are
only budgetary statements (comptabilite budgetaire), incomplete and frequently
incoherent. Cash flows (revenues from water fees minus total operating costs) vary
greatly from year to year.3/ Thus, it is not possible, at project completion, to collect
key financial information, such as total revenues and costs, central budgetary
contributions, subsidies for O&M, total capital expenditures with sources of financing.
Financial efficiency was not achieved. Budget savings were not realized. Cash flow
recovery for the ORMVAs should be based on: Government assumption of public
3/    For example, average cash flow for the seven ORMVAs collecting water fees is DH 143 million for 1986-7 and DH 95
million for 1992-1993, based on 1985 DH values.



9
service costs currently borne by the ORMVAs; higher water fees and improved rate of
recovery; and increased autonomy in ORMVA personnel management.
6.4 .         Maintenance of irrigation systems. Rehabilitation works have been completed in a
correct and timely manner in spite of on-site delays and cost overruns. ORMVA O&M services have
been restructured. A large training program for mechanics was completed, and O&M services are
more reliable now than at the beginning of the Project. Average O&M costs are not precisely known,
due to the absence of an analytical accounting system at the ORMVA level, but they have increased.
Based on 1985 DH values, costs rose 35% during the Project. Estimated costs for 1993 are 380
DH/ha, as opposed to the 245 DH/ha estimated at appraisal. This shows that an adequate level of
maintenance can only be performed if maintenance costs increase. Thus, several issues were
addressed during preparation of the Project's second phase: a) adequacy of the current O&M system
(in terms of costs and tasks); b) inability of current water fees to cover adequate O&M costs; and
c) insufficiency of the current rate of recovery of water fees (Para. 6.6).
6.5           ORMVA transfer of services to the private sector. At the beginning of the Project,
the ORMVAs provided all necessary services to the farmers (Para. 5.5). By Project closing,
divestiture of these services had been partially achieved. As for O&M of irrigation systems,
ORMVAs are awarding some maintenance contracts to private firms. In 1993, these contracts
covered about 60-70% of maintenance costs, as opposed to 30% in 1986. ORMVA divestiture from
harvest organization and input supply has prompted processing factories to offer and finance farmer
assistance services.
6.6           Farmer assumption of O&M costs. One of the Project's objectives was to increase the
recovery rate of water fees from 43 % to 90%. While recovery rates grew to an average of 74%,
they did not reach estimated targets. Cost recovery in two ORMVAs (Tadla [97,000 ha] and
Moulouya [45,000 ha]) dropped from 82% and 62%, respectively, in 1992 to 66% and 56%,
respectively, in 1993. For Ouarzazate and Tafilalet, plans were made during appraisal to revise
existing legislation in order to collect water fees. This never happened.
6.7           Farmer contribution to rehabilitation investments. It was originally anticipated that
farmers would pay a so-called participation tax, in order to contribute to part (40%) of the
investments. The rate of recovery of this tax is low (29% of taxes billed), and no target was
established during appraisal. A concerted effort to improve the rate of recovery must be made during
the second phase of the Project.
6.8           Diversification of production
a)    Agricultural production. It was estimated that beet and sugar cane production
would decrease and that cotton, cereals, vegetables and fruit output would
increase. Sugar production remained constant, cotton declined, and the
remaining crops did not reach the estimated targets. The reasons for this are
that cropping pattern liberalization took longer than anticipated, and there were
various other economic and agricultural constraints. The cropping intensity
coefficient was projected at appraisal to reach 135% at full development, but
only 93% was realized at Project completion. This was due mainly to lack of
water and high salinization levels.



10
b)    Animal production. Based upon available data, milk and meat production
increased (100% and 13%, respectively), but did not reach estimated targets
(140% and 129%, respectively). These increases are due to a 50% growth in
forage areas (the appraisal target was estimated at 140%).
6.9           Farm income. After seven years of the Project, outputs have not yet reached the
goals agreed upon during appraisal (i.e. 10 years ago). Monitoring data either do not exist or are too
heterogeneous to determine the level of farm income. Based on available data, net income (without
milk and meat) can be estimated at 7,200 DH/ha, based on 1985 DH values, whereas the amount of
6,100 DH/ha had been estimated at appraisal. The objective appears to have been exceeded, due to
higher-than-expected price increases and better-controlled production costs. However, real increases
in production were lower than expected.
6.10          Farmers' organizations. Farmers' associations were created and are generally active
in the following areas: milk collection, insemination services, processing factory supplies. Water
Users' Associations were also created to manage water and maintain canals. Other professional
associations were created in order to defend producer interests.: These associations are responsible for
part of those services which were formerly provided by the ORMVAs. These services are offered by
private operators and provide for a dialogue between processors, retailers, Government, and the
ORMVAs. The farmer organization movement is still fledgling (involving about 5% of farmers), but
should expand during the Project's second phase.
6.11          Extension and research. Following ORMVA reorganization, decentralization, and
divestiture (Para. 6.5), extension agents have become extremely specialized. For the most part, all
nine ORMVAs, except Tadla, have increased cultivated outputs, but it is still difficult to determine
whether this is due to extension services, to a greater availability of water, or to ORMVA divestiture.
In the area of applied research, a Central Coordinating Unit (financed by the Borrower) has been
created, enabling ORMVAs to coordinate and focus their research and to establish staff agreements
with research institutions.
6.12          Collective land. By Project closing, about 4,000 ha of collective land had been
allocated to farmers in Gharb. This trend has continued, and in 1994 an estimated 5,600 ha of land
will be distributed.
6.13          Project rate of return. It has not been possible to calculate the financial and economic
rate of return of the project In fact, Project-financed operations represent only part of ORMVA
activities. As the ORMVAs have no analytical accounting system, it is not possible to identify the
effects of specific project actions. Due to the lack of M&E (Para. 5.4), net income from rehabilitated
areas has not been distinguished from that of areas not included in the Project. Income is therefore
unknown in the majority of the ORMVAs. Furthermore, some ORMVAs have received, in addition
to Project funds, assistance from bilateral aid from the Bank's Extension Services Project. Since
investments are higher than anticipated (+7%) and farm income is also higher than expected
(+ 18%), it is possible that the Project rate of return is close to the estimated level of 26%.
6.14          Environmental Impact. From the supervision reports there is no evidence of
environmental degradation caused by rehabilitation work. Measures to combat silting were
implemented in Ouarzazate, and have been considered to be effective. Analytical studies of sugar
refinery pollution were carried out, and indicate no serious problems. No mention was made of an



11
increase of bilharzia during the Project, but a resistant form of malaria does appear to be on the rise.
The Project's second phase, along with a USAID-financed project in Tadla, contain measures to
monitor environmental impact.



12
7.    Project Sustainability
a)     At the institutional level, positive attitude changes took place over the course of the
Project, both at the central level (decentralization, inter-ministerial dialogue, dialogue
with the ORMVAs) and at the ORMVA level (cost awareness, importance of the
private sector, reorganization of the ORMVAs to stimulate interdisciplinary
teamwork). Although they were arrived at only gradually, these positive changes in
attitude and management methods indicate the sustainability of Project improvements.
Only superficial organizational reforms within MARA and the ORMVAs have been
carried out.
b)     At the network management level, LSI systems are better maintained than they were at
the beginning of the Project, and farmers contribute more to their own O&M costs.
However, it is necessary to improve the rate of recovery of water fees and to analyze
whether current fees are sufficient (Para. 6.4) to ensure adequate maintenance.
c)     At the agricultural production level, yields are Increasing and will reach established
targets, due to an increase in the volume of water distributed, better input use, and
improved cropping methods. However, outputs fell sharply in certain systems after a
drought and water shortage in 1993. In Tadla, Souss-Massa, and Ouarzazate soil
salinization problems occurred in some areas.
d)     At the economic level, water consumption was reduced at farm level by 21 % (instead
of an estimated 27%). However, a USAID-financed project in Tadla estimated that
farmers still waste about 50% of irrigation water. Financially, operations subsidies
have been reduced, but ORMVA cash flows are weaker than anticipated. Efforts at
management streamlining are being carried into the second phase of the Project;
e)     At the environmental impact level, Project actions do not seem to have damaged the
environment. Infectious diseases such as bilharzia, which was detected during
appraisal, do not seem to have increased, but malaria is on the rise. The Project's
second phase includes an environmental monitoring component.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1          Supervision missions were generally carried out by FAO-CP which, unfortunately,
lacks authority vis a vis the Moroccan projects official to properly carry out project implementation.
Mission frequency varied greatly and does not seem to have been dictated by Project implementation
problems. There was one mission per year for the first four years of the Project; three missions in
1990; no mission in 1992, and one mission in 1993. During the first few years, the FAO-CP
missions stressed irrigation, and did not include organizational and institutional specialists. The
infrequency of supervision missions at the beginning of the Project and the stress placed on technical
matters added to the delays experienced during MIS implementation.
8.2          The only pressure which the Bank seems to have applied was when it threatened
temporary interruption of disbursements at the end of the Project, due to the extreme delays in the
receipt of audit reports. Likewise, problems were caused by the failure of the Government to sign



13
MIPs with Doukkala and Tadla, which the Bank then made a condition for presentation to the Board
of the Project's second phase (LSII-2). Supervision missions have frequently found that monitoring
data were unreliable, unusable, or nonexistent. The Mid-Term Review, scheduled during appraisal to
tak -place in mid-1989, would have permitted contact with Project authorities in order to analyze the
reasons for delays and to build a consensus among the various ORMVAs and Ministries. The farm
investments component was not monitored at all by the supervision missions.
9.    Conclusions and Lessons Learned
9.1          The Project consisted of two principal objectives: management improvement and
rehabilitation of LSI schemes in conformity with Government's policy of decentralization and
divestiture. Despite considerable initial delays, the Project's physical goals were attained, thus
demonstrating the Borrower's ability to carry out the Project's technical aspects. Institutional
objectives were somewhat less successful: a) Government administrative and financial control of the
ORMVAs decreased less than anticipated; b) ORMVA divestiture vis a vis the private sector was
accomplished; and c) management systems were barely implemented by the Project, but this will be
done during the Project's second phase. The Project was instrumental in promoting favorable changes
in attitude at all levels and in promoting greater responsibility and decentralization. However,
financial results for the ORMVAs were much lower than had been expected. The Project can also be
considered as having implemented good management foundations for the success of the second phase.
Nevertheless, future success will rely upon sustained efforts at strong financial management during
the second phase of the Project.
9.2          The principal lessons learned during Project implementation are:
a)     Projects aiming at Government (and ORMVA) divestiture require continuous efforts
spread out over several years. The agenda for such projects should take into account
the amount of time necessary to change attitudes at different levels so that Project
actions have the opportunity to take root, particularly in the areas of regulation and
management. Training should be carried out both for technical matters and in the
areas of communication, problem perception, leadership, and evaluation (Paras. 4.3
and 6.3c);
b)     When Government divestiture involves granting more responsibility to the ORMVAs
in the form of Management Improvement Plans, these plans should ensure that there is
a contractual obligation on the part of both parties and that the ORMVAs have the
means necessary to fulfill their obligations (Para. 6.3d);
c)     MIS implementation consists of technical and regulatory aspects. It may be advisable
to separate the technical aspects (accounting) and to implement them at the beginning
of the project. Technical components are less sensitive than regulatory measures and
provide necessary financial data, regardless of the actions taken at other levels (Para.
4.2);
d)     Delays in Project implementation can occur when the technical or institutional studies
underestimate difficulties and issues at hand. For example, unforeseen site difficulties



14
can appear, or, as was the case with MIS implementation, there can be resistance due
to prevalent habits and attitudes (Paras. 4.2 and 4.3);
e)     The two main components of the Project deal with strengthening ORMVA
management and improving infrastructure, and account for the bulk of Project costs.
They were paralleled by the Bank's Extension Services Project, which aims at
increasing agricultural production. This pattern of strengthening institutions while
simultaneously increasing agricultural output will be continued during the second
phase of the Project;
f)     The Loan Agreement contains 45 covenants. During the design and negotiation of the
Loan, it may have been preferable to prioritize these covenants and to include only the
most important ones in the Loan Agreement. Including an obligation to honor
unfulfilled covenants from the first phase of a project in the Loan Agreement of the
second phase may not be the best way for the Borrower and the Bank to ensure their
respective credibilities (Para. 5.8);
g)     The fear of not finding private businesses to assume divested ORMVA services has
been proven to be unfounded. ORMVA divestiture has prompted the private sector to
invest in services to be provided to the farmers (Para. 6.5);
h)     Government divestiture will take longer to carry out in cases where farmers sell their
products to State enterprises rather than to private companies (Para. 5.5);
i)     Even when an important Project component consists of improving management
systems (i.e. MIS implementation), it is necessary to install or reinforce an M&E
system at the beginning of the Project, even if this means subsequent modification of
MIS study conclusions (Para. 5.4);
j)     Although the Mid-Term Review did not take place during the Project, it would
probably have permitted identification of major Project problems and stimulated inter-
agency coordination in order to resolve major issues (Para. 5.6); and
k)     In terms of LSI operations, the Project stressed improved rates of recovery of water
fees. Efforts should also be made to raise current water fees to a level which would
permit adequate maintenance (Para. 6.4).
10.   Borrower Performance
10.1         The objectives of Government's (and the ORMVAs') financial divestiture component,
although accepted during the course of appraisal and negotiations, required important changes in
attitude and practices at all levels. Although these changes have been generally accepted, there was
initial resistance, which increased the delay in implementation of the Project's institutional
component.



15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATO  IMROVEMENT PROlECT
LAN 2656-MOR)
PART C : PROb ECT REVIEWFbROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECeIVE
[Comments by the Borrower have been requested but have never been received]



16
PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE-SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2656-MOR)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



17
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
RELATED BANK LOANS
PROJECT,              YEAR OF             ;         PURPOSAMOUNT ;                                     STATS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   APPROVAL L  - 
Sebou I Irrigation Project        1969      Construction of Idriss I Dam; irrigation   USS46.0 million    Closed
(Loan 643-MOR)                              of 4300 ha of Gharb Plain; improvement of                           6/30/80
rainfed    farming;    construction    of.
roads/processing faciLities.
Souss Groundwater Project          1975     Installation of tubewells, buried cement   USS18.5 milLion    Closed
(Loan 1123-MOR)                             pipe distribution systems; rehabilitation                           6/30/82
of    gravity    distribution    system;
construction  of open drains  and power
lines;    village        infrastructure
improvement;      Land    consolidation,
distribution, preparation.                                                     l
DoukkaLa I Irrigation              1976     Enlargement of Doukkala main canal and   US$30.0 million    Closed
Project (Loan 1201-MOR)                     extension    of    irrigation    systems;                           6/30/81
biLharzia control project in El Jadida;
feasibility   study   for  Dechrael-Oued
irrigation;    feasibility   study    for
fruits/vegetables in Massa region.                                             l
Doukkala II Irrigation             1977     Enlargement  of DoukkaLa main canal  and   USS41.0 million    CLosed
Project (Loan 1416-MOR)                     extension    of    Irrigation    systems;                           6/30/86
construction    and    reinforcement    of
infrastructure,  provision  of  equipment
for    extension,      O&M,    artificial
insemination, teLecommunications. 
SmaLL and Medium Scale            1983      To support the development of the small         USS42.0 million    Closed
Irrigation Project                          and medium scale irrigation sub-sector                              12/31/92
(Loan 2253-MOR)                             through creation and rehabilitation of
five schemes and the preparation of a
second-stage oroject.                                                          I
ASAL 1                             1985     To support first impLementation phase of   USS100.0 million   Closed
(Loan 2590-MOR)                             Government's five year sector adjustment                            12/31/87
Drogram.                                                                       I
ASAL II                            1987     To support second implementation phase of   USs225.0 million   Closed
(Loan 2885-MOR)                             Government's  medium-term   agricultural                            4/1/92
sector  adjustment   program,   fostering
efficient    agricuttural    growth    and
contributing   to   the   reduction   of
budgetary/capital  account  deficits  to
manageable levels while minimizing social
costs of adjustment.                                                           l
Small and Medium-Scale            1988      To finance a part of the Government's           uss23.0 million
Irrigation II Project                       pubLic investment program in small and
(Loan 2954-MOR)                             medium scale irrigation during the 1988-
1992 plan through renovation of about
120 traditional irrigation schemes and
the equipnent of seven spate irrigation
repair brigades to operate in poverty
areas in seLected southern provinces.



18
Large Scale Irrigation            1992      Second phase of Goverrmient program  to   US$215.0 million
Inprovement II Project                     Ilqprove efficIency,  cost effectiveness
(Loan 3587-NOR)                            and sustainability of LSI schemes through
Infrastructure    rehabllitation,
institutfonal strengthening, water use
efficIency   inprovement   and   policy
ref orms.
Irrigated Areas                   1993     To  raise  agricultural  production  and   USS25.0 million
Agricultural Services                       farmers'  incomes  in  irrigated/rainfed
Project (Loan 3688-MOR)                     areas, with a specIal focus on extension
to women; to inprove organization and
efficiency   of   ORMVAs'   agricuLtural
services; to promote invoLvement of
farmers' groups in development, and to
invoLve   university   staff   in   fieLd
extension/research.



19
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
PROJECT TIMETABLE
.. .                   PASE                                      PLANNED   -             ACTUAL:.
Identification                                                                              3/84
Preparation Beginning                                                                       6/84
Preparation End                                                      11/84                  3/85
Appraisal Mission                                                    2/85                   4/85
Loan Negotiations                                                                      12/2-12/11/85
Board ApprovaL                                                                            2/25/86
Loan Signature                                                                            4/11/86
Loan Effectiveness                                                   5/86                  1/6/87
Loan Closing                                                       6/30/93                6/30/93
Project Completion                                                 6/30/93                12/31/93



Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cumulative and Actual Disbursements (US$ Million)
IYBRD Fisca  Year.       Appraisal.:          Actua
FY 87
Dec. 1986
June 1987                      1.9
FY 88
Dec. 1987                      2.0                2.5
June 1988                      2.1
FY 89
Dec. 1988                      3.3
June 1989                      4.4                5.4
FY 90
Dec. 1989                      5.0                2.7
June 1990                      5.0                4.8
FY 91
Dec. 1990                      6.0                5.7
June 1991                      4.7                4.6
FY 92
Dec. 1991                      3.5                4.4
June 1992                      3.0                5.5
FY~ 93
Dec. 1992                      3.0                1.3
June 1993                      2.1                2.1
TOTAL                         46.0               46.0
B. Planned and Actual Disbursements by Category (US$ Million)
l: 0   0Categoryi-;    i0; ;    PLAHNEa-. | :0ACTUAL    ;
..s i : .  s   ...i.L ..o ..
2 1.  Civil. Uorks                        23.              31.3
1atgb31..3.:ATA:
| 2.  Equipment~~~~~~~~~~~.. .n Yehcle   ....5     11.4
| .Training,
Technical- Assistance,
Maintenance Contracts,
and Studies                           4.5              3.3
| .Unal.located                          4.0               0
TOTAL                                   46.0            46.0



21
Table 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
PROJECT COSTS (US$ MILLION)
::-'CATEGORY '.:-.  -APPRA ISAL'  :--ACTUAL          VARIATIORI
Civil Works                     28.9           68.6            39.7
Equipment and Vehicles          17.6           26.4             8.8
Technical Assistance,
Studies and Training          3.9            3.8            (1.0)
Operating Costs                 9.6            5.9             (3.7)
Contingencies                   24.5             -            (24.5)
lTOTAL                            84.5          104.7            20.2
Civil works cost more than expected due to bidding delays and execution problems, and have used up
75% of unallocated costs.
It has not been possible to determine on-farm investments (estimated at USS8.1 million, with
contingencies, at appraisal). This component is not incLuded in the above figures.



22
Table 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION)
SOURCE-             APPRA:SA|ACTUA                       VARIATION;
1) World Bank'
Civil Works                23.0               31.3               8.3
Equip. & VehicLes           14.5              11.4              (3.1)
TA, Studies &
Training                  3.3               )                )
Operating Costs             1.2               )3.3              )(1.2)
Contingencies                4.0                                (4.0)
Sub-TotaL Bank             46.0               46.0                 0
2) Government                  38.5               58.7              20.2
TOTAL                          84.5              104.7              20.2
The Bank loan has been compLeteLy disbursed.
Government has spent more than expected due to higher costs of civiL works.



23
Table 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
section  -f r|- e   Status    O ariginal  ::Rvised  :Description of Covenants  -[
- t - l ~~~Da              t   ..::Date:.                          .    .   . -
2.02(b)            F       OK                                Government to open and
maintain Special Account in
US$ in the Banque du Maroc
(LA amendment required).
4.01(b)            F      SOON        3/88                   Government to provide a            Reports submitted for alL
copy of the audit report           FYs except FY 1993.
for the Project at the end
of each financial period.
4.02(b)            F      SOON        3/88                   ORMVAs to provide a copy of    same as above
their financial statements
and of the audit report at
the end of each financial
period.
5.03(a)            F       OK       9/30/86    12/31/90   Government to establish new
water charges to recover
all O&M costs and a
reasonable part of
implementation costs.
Government to provide Bank
updated rates.
5.03(c)            F      SOON      12/31/89                 Government to establish new    Construction of pumping
water charges for Moulouya         station still underway.
system after financed
punoing system operational.
5.03(d)            F       OK       12/31/86    12/31/90   Government to establish
water charges to recover
all O&M costs and partial
inv. costs in Upper
Tessaout Perimeter
5.04              F/T      OK       12/31/87                 Government to carry out            Draft agreement between
feasibility study of water        ORMVAs and users
charge recovery systems for    prepared.
non-agricultural users.
Annex 5            M       RVS        7/87         7/90      CNCP to convene at Least           CNCP never met;
A 1(a)                                                       once every semester.               aLternative arrangement
I__________   __________    ______________imolemented.
A 4(a)             M        OK      6/30/87                  Biannual progress reports
by DER to be submitted by
6/30 and 12/31 of each
year.
A 4(b)             M        OK      6/30/89      6/30/90    Comprehensive mid-term
review report by DER in
collaboration with the five
Committees.



24
S ctio. ofiType.-  Statu     Origin l   Revised          Description of Covenantst! 1-X-    etmi
..........D.t e                         .a t                                ...   _ _-_  _ _ _ _ __Dt_
1              M       OK      9/30/86               Annual program of supplies,
works, training and other
services due 9/30 of each
year.
B 1              H4      OK      9/30/86               Phasing of expenditures and
financing programs of next
FY project activities due
. ______________                 __________    __________   9/30    of    each    year.
C 1(a)           M       OK      12/31/86               Government to establish O&M   Done
service in Ouarzazate and
__________             Tafilalet.                                                 l
C 1(b)           M       OK      12/31/86               Irrigation Technical Unit
(BTI) of each ORMVA charged
with pLanning, monitoring
and evaluation of O&M of
_________               irrigation systems.
C 2(a)           M       OK      12/31/86   12/31/92   Program of action for
estabLishment of Water
Users' Associations in
rehabilitated irrigation
areas of Ouarzazate,
Tafitalet and Haouz.
C 2(a)           M       OK      12/31/86   12/31/92   Program of action for           Done 5/2/93
establishment of Water
Users' Associations in one
Tadla irrigated area.
C 2(a)           M      SOON    12/31/87                Establishment of Water          Transformation of
Users' Associations in          traditional IUA into new
Cuarzazate, Tafilalet and      WUA in progress.
Haouz rehabilitated areas.
C 2(a)           M       OK      12/31/87   12/31/92   Establishment of Water          Done
Users' Associations in one
__________  _____ Tadla irrigated area.
C 2(c)           M       RVS     12/31/88               Extension of Water Users'       DifficuLties in
Associations to remaining       implementation.  Action
ORMVAs.                         to be taken under LSII-2.
D 1              M       OK      12/31/86    5/2/93    Signature of program             Done
contract (PC) for 1987-1990
between Government (KIARA)
and Doukkala.
D 2              M    OK/RVS   12/31/88                 Signature of PC between         Contract signed with
Government (MARA) and          Tadla.  Remaining ORMVAs
Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla.       to be covered by LSII-2.
o 2              M       RVS     12/31/89               Signature of PC between         To be covered by LSII-2.
Government and remaining
ORMVAs.
D 2(b)           M       RVS     12/31/87               Government to submit annual    To be covered by LSII-2.
progress reports on PC
implementation by 12/31 of
each year.                    I



95
....-|i                                                      criptio.  of e. .et
---_  -__ -_-_  -  Date-   -  Date--
E 1              M       OK      6/30/87    6/30/92    Government to submit             Done
proposals for new standard
management principles and
procedures for all nine
ORMVAs.
E 2(a)           H       OK      12/31/87    5/2/93    Government to authorize
application of new standard
management principles and
procedures.
E 2(b)           H       RVS     6/30/88                 Government to impLement new   To be completed urder
management system in           LSII-2.
Doukkala, Gharb, Tadla and
Loukkos.                      _
F 4(a)           M       OK      6/30/87                Government to establish new   Done
extension service in each
ORMVA.
F 4(b)           H       OK      6/30/88                Government to provide           Done
adequate number of
extension staff in each
ORMVA.
G 1              H       OK      8/31/86    12/31/89   Government to submit             Done
program of divestiture for
various coammercial
services.
G 1              M       OK      9/30/89    3/31/90    Divestiture of production        Done
and processing of sugar
crops in Doukkala, Gharb,
Loukkos, Moulouya and
______________ _  ________  ___________   Tadla.
G 1(b)           M       OK      9/30/89    3/31/90    Disengagement of input           Done
services, animal breeding,
poultry production and non-
prophylactic veterinary
services in Doukkala,
Gharb, Haouz, Loukkos,
Moulouya, Souss-Massa and
TadLa.
G 1(c)           M       OK      9/30/89    3/31/90    Disengagement of farm            Done
machinery services in
Doukkala, Haouz, Moulouya,
Souss-Massa and Tadla.
G 1(c)           H       OK      9/30/91    3/31/90    Disengagement of farm            Done
machinery services in
_______________              ___________  Gharb,    Loukkos.
H 1              T      RVS      6/30/87                Government to submit three-    To be covered by IASS
year research program for      Project.
each ORMVA.
H 2             M/T      RVS     12/31/87               Signature of protocol           To be covered by IASS
between appropriate            project.
research organizations and
I ____  L_  C_________            ORMVAs.
I 1              T       OK      9/1/87    12/31/92   CompLetion of ORMVA studies    Done
for determination of new
crocoing program.



26
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   . . . . . .   . .  . . .   . . .
______________   _______   ~~~Date :    Date      .   .  .   .. ..     ..
M/T      OK      9/30/87    12/31/91   EstabLishment of                 Cropping patterns
appropriate cropping            substantially
patterns in each ORMVA.         liberalized.
J                 T       OK      12/31/87   12/31/89   Study to identify and
evaLuate environmental
impact of disposal of
effluents from sugar
processing plants in
Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos,
Moulouya, Tadla.
J1                T       OK     12/31/87   12/31/89   Study to identify and
evaluate environmentaL
impact of sources and
spread of bilharzia in
Project perimeters.
K 1(b)            M       OK      9/30/86    12/31/87   Government to furnish
comprehensive report with
conclusions of survey on
collective-owned Lands in
Gharb and recommendations
for implementation
strategy.
K 1(c)            M      RVS      9/30/86    12/31/87   Government to set up              Work supervised by DVRA
monitoring committee to         in MARA.  Suspended
follow up on measures to        pending approval of new
establish ownership rights.    exoropriation law.
L                 M       OK     12/31/86                Government to establish         Done
cost recovery units in
Haouz and Souss-Massa.
L                 M      RVS      9/30/86                Revision of water charges.      Annual update of water
tariff implemented.
Revision of tariff
structure to be done by
LSII-2.
l MM                      OK      12/31/86   12/31/87   Government to establish           Done
.__________                                           planning departments.
The remaining covenants are all contained in Annex 5.
Key:
Covenant Type:                                      Status:
E - Economic                                        OK - Covenant complied with
F - Financial                                       RVS - Revision Required
M  - Managerial                                     SOON  - Compliance imminent
T - Technical



27
Table 7
KLNGDOM OF MIOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
MISSIONS
| :- ''Stage.                  of   Days in..   |    'ci liatio         .'a :tings1        ature rfrLe ......inm'
Proj t-  cle          . Ye    j Sraff-.:: Fiel  .......]    epresented -''      __ '
Identification          3/84    _
Precaration
Final Preparation
Appraisal              4-5/85      7         Z7             Economist(3)
FinanciaL Analyst
______________  _Consultants(3)                                              I
Post-Appraisal
Start-Up                9/86       3         17              Economist
Irrigation Engineer
6         Training Specialist
Supervision             9/87       1         8          Irrigation Engineer           1      Management
Supervision             2/88       5         14              Economist                1      Management
Irrigaticn Engineer (2)
Trainirg Specialist
Financial Analyst
Suoervision             6/89       1         11         Irrigation Engineer           2      Management
Supervision             2/90       2         33         Irrigation Engineer           I      management
Ccnsultant
Supervision             6/90       7         23            Mission Chief              1      Management
Agronomist
Economist
Irrigation Engineer (2)
O&M Specialist
Admin. Assistant
Infcrmnation            7/90       2         5       Irrigaticn Engineer (2)                          _
Supervision             9/91       2         11         Irrigation Engineer           1      Management
Economist
Sucervision             4/93       1         13         Irrigation Engineer           2
ComoLetion              4/94       1         21              Consultant
FAO mission in concert with World Bank staff.  Detailed information not availabLe.



28
Table 8
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Inprovement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
STAFF INPUTS (IN STAFF WEEKS)
I!--; ;-0 ;.   P-.   i .1 0   a.t     A -- ... ..   ..   ...   -1 -. 1    .01....   l;--;0- ...   ---W. .
ai-  Negotia In              Al    PoetI L;r                   .a .......A
-_____ I PIn          I -: .ttin         -Pro                -f Ain.- ..  viso    fi nanc - I          U 
FY 84      50.8                                                                                          50.8
FY 85     163.7       41.5                                                                               205.2
FY 86                 7.3        15.2                                         3.4                        25.9
FY 87                                                                        21.1                 1.6   22.7
FY 88                                                                        27.4                        27.4
FY 89                                                                        33.5                        33.5
FY 90                                                                        38.2                        38.2
FY 91                                                                        22.7                        22.7
FY 92                                                                        36.1                        36.1
FY 93                                                                        11.4                        11.4
FY 94                                                                         4.1                 0.6    4.7
TOTAL     214.5       48.8       15.2                                       197.9                | Z.2   488.6  l



29
Table 9
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
PROJECT RESULTS
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
- -   INDICOR I-  -    :  -   - ---APPRAISAL   - - --  CLOSING DATE              -   ESTIMATED AT  UI:':
ESTIMTE                   EST  DTE             DEVELOp      (2000-2005)..*
Hectares rehabilitated                             148,540             148,000 estimated
Number of Program-Contracts                                                                     should be reached by end
between ORMVAs and Government                         9                         2               of second phase
Nunber of Beneficiaries
Farmers                                        46,500                     n.a.
PopuLation                                    256,000                     n.a.l
EmolovTnent Created                                 14,000                     n.a.
Environmental Imnact
Decrease bilharzia                                                    no increase           no action taken.
Contaminated drinking water by                                       study done --          USAID-financed study to be
effLuents of sugar processing                                     no aggravation         done in 1994
plants
Diversification of Production
(each surface of crop production in
% of 1986 values)
a) Agriculture
Sugar beets                                  71%                       99%
Sugar cane                                   64%                       101%
Cereals                                      100%                      105%
Cotton                                      311%                       10%              Prices have dropped
Vegetables                                   125%                      111%
Citrus                                       99%                       98%
Fruit trees                                 101%                      126%
Forages                                     234%                      150%
Other                                       221%                       n.a.
b) Livestock
Mitk                                         240%                      200%             Estimates for 3 ORMVAs
Beef                                        229%                       113%
Number purebred calf heifers
purchased                                 4,600                   not done            Component  not  followed
Stables constructed for                  9,300 cows                 not done            during project execution
Agriculturat Production Yields
(average t/ha for relevant ORMVAs)
Sugar beets                                        60                        51               Except   for   sugar   and
Sugar cane                                         74                        59               cotton,  expected  yields
Cereals                                            3.5                       2.8              witl be reached (after 10
Cotton                                             2.2                       1.4              years of Project).   The
Vegetables                                        23.7                        21              last   twO   years   have
Citrus                                             19                         18              witnessed severe draught.
Fruit trees                                        2.8                       3.9              Some    ORMVAs    have
Forages                                            5.6                       5.4              salinization problems.



30
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT
:o~~~~.. .. ..                                                       1 SIDCT  I;iS S        ;  1f-  APAlAL f3 ;- CLOSING DATE..' - - iS ii SIMATED A
ESTIMATE        -         ESTIMATE:           DEVELOPMENT (2000-2
Economic Rate of Return                             28%              cannot be calculated   Probably   not  far   from 1
but   estimated   at   appraisal estimate
close to 28%
C.  FINANCIAL IMPACT
TE~~~~~...  iE- .: T..- i.E--.: :................:.:-. ...    -iE.EE ,77 7. -r  -  777 -- - ::.T7:-  -:-,
INDICATO':               I       APPRAISAL        I       CLCSING DATE:-            ESTIMATED AT F
11                                :-2 05 i i:-|0 i- -ESTMAE         ESTIMATE          _ _:_________
.... ..  .... ..    ...... . ......___    .1.___  EST__ ___ATE   _   __ __LOP___    _ENT_   _                 (2000-~2005)~
Farmer Benefits (in DH/000 ha)                      6.1                       7.2              In constant DH, vaLue 1985
Net Cash Flow of 7 ORMVAs                           +90                       -95              In constant OH, value 1985
(in million DH)                                                       (average 1992-93)
D .  STUDIES
NAME OF STUDY..               PtPRPOSE DEFINED AT APPRAISAL        I    STATUS              IMPACT OF-STUDIES .
Management Information Systems   Irmlement management standards and   CompLeted   Late but welL done.  ALLowed
tools; define training needs.             in 3 ORMVAs   well-coordinated    training
1993            systems,    management
indicators, cost accounting,
and    change    in    probLem
perception.   Key  to  second
tranche of Project.
Cropping Patterns                    Provide  information  on  existing   Completed   A  good  review  of  farming
crop  rotation;  propose  technicaL   1990                techniques; promted MARA to
and    economic    aspects         for                    promote  flexibility  in  crop
alternative crop rotations.                               rotation.
EnvironmentaL Impact                 Evaluate impact of effluents from   Completed    Inventory  of problems  in  5
sugar   plants   and   spread   of   1988                 ORMVAs.   No recomwndations
diseases.                                                 appL i ed,  no  major  problems
ra i sed.
Cost of Water                        DeveLop  appropriate   systems   of   Completed    Very useful.  First study to
water charges for different ctients   1990                show  reaL  cost  of  water.
(i.e. agriculturaL and others)                            Prescribed    maintenance
standards.
Farmer Cooperatives/                 Identify,    evaluate,    recofmmend   CompLeted   First  taxonomy/inventory  in
Professional Associations            measures for improving  efficiency   1991                 Morocco.       Recomnendations
of  cooperatives  and  Chambers  of                       useful when applied.
AgricuLture.
Analysis of Bilharzia/PaLudism   Evaluate damage to ORMVA irrigation   Completed   Prophylactic  actions  to  be
schemes.                                  1988            carried  out by Ministry  of
HeaLth.



31
Table 10
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR)
PROJECT IMIPLEMENTATION
I-TET                      APPRAISAL---              CLSIG D TE - ..-C r..
-- --- ----- --ESTIMAT  --  -ESTIMATE
MIS Studv                             Completion 1989 for    Completion 1993 for 3    Took longer than expected but
all ORMVAs                  ORM4VAs            helped to change mentalities
at   all   levels;   promoted
decentratization    and
_                   ~~~~~~responsibilities.
Program-Contracts                     Completion 1990 for    Contracts signed 2/93    Contracts   exist  but  need
between ORMVAs and Government              alt ORMVAs                for 2 ORMVAs          improvement.
Technical Assistance                                                                       Useful  for MIS  studies  and
Long-term m-m                                212                       n.a.              implementation.
Short-term m-m                               62                        n.a.
Staff Trainina                                                                             Difficult  to  find  adequate
Local:  No. of staff                        1,200                     1,000              staff  to  train.    Training
Abroad:  m-m                                 165                      littLe             abroad   replaced  by   local
institutions.
Irrigation Efficiency
Water use, Mmr/year                         +27%                       +21%              Lack of H,0 in some ORMVAs.
Cropping intensity                          135%                       93%               Estimated too high at
appraisal; H20 prob.
Avg. maint. cost, OH/ha/year                 245                       380               Varies according to ORMVA.
Maintenance cost recovery rate               90%                       72%               Varies from 56% to 84%,
depending on ORMVA.
Rehabilitation invest.,                     2.75                       3.4               Varies according to ORMVA.
DH 000/ha
Institutional Asoects
Central level, creation of:
Coordination Committee                meet 3x/yr                  never met            replaced by Secretariat, KARA
Training Unit, DEAR                       1986                       1986              (SAGI)
Planning Unit, DPAE                       1986                       1986
O&M Unit, DER                             1986                       1986
Cropping Pattern Unit                     1986                       1986
ORMVA level, create/strengthen:
O&M Service                               1986                       1986
General Planning Service                  1986                       1986
Extension Service                         1986                       1986
Field Extension Units                     1986                       1986
Decollectivization of Land
(Gharb)                                     5,600 ha                   4,000 ha            Legislation in place.  Target
Area to be distributed                                                                   to be attained in 1994.









IMAGING
Report No:    14445
Type: PCR



