Document of
The World Bank
FORonMCaL USE ONLY
IRkt No. P-41710--MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL RANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$46.0 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
January 23, 1986
ITh doemet F      a refktsi dIsbNdmmd nay he ted by recipients sly in the peffn.ne of
their SM Isi. Id      co"bmab  amy n  otherwise be diosed whout Wedd Bank ath.kulzadm.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       = Di.rham (DH)
I Dirham (DH)                       = US$ 0.10
1 US Dollar (US$)                   = DH 10.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CMV        ORMVAs' Local Development Centers
(Centre de mise en valeur)
CNCA       National Bank for Agricultural Credit
(Banque nationale de credit agricole)
DEAR       MARA's Central Department of Training and Research
(Direction de 1'enseignement agricole et de la recherche)
DER       kMURA's Central Department for Rural Construction
(Direction de l'quipement rural)
DPA        MARA's Provincial Directorate for Agriculture
(Direction provinciale de I'agriculture)
DPAE       MARA's Central Department for Economic Affairs
(Direction des affaires economiques)
DPV        MARA's Central Department of Crop Production
(Direction de la Production Vegetale)
FERTIMA:   National Fertilizer Marketing Company
(Sociit6 Marocaine des fertilisants)
1NRA       National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut national de la recherche agronomique)
LSI    :   Large Scale Irrigation
MARA   :  Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere de ['agriculture et de la reforme agraire)
ORMVAs :   Regional Agricultural Development Offices
(Offices regionaux de mise en valeur agricoLe)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
K[NGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Kingdom of Morocco..
Beneficiaries: Nine Regional Agricultural Development Agencies (ORMVAs)
Amount:        US$46.0 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project        The proposed project would help implement and complement the
Description:   reform package agreed upon under the First Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (2590-MOR) with regard to the irrigation
subsector. The project's objectives are to provide for greater
efficiency in the use of existing resources in the 400,000 ha
of large scale irrigated lands (LSI) and improve the financial
performance of the nine ORMVAs in charge of LSI schemes to
reduce their dependance on the Government's budget. The
project would consist of (a) rehabilitation or upgrading of
existing irrigation infrastructure serving about 150,000 ha;
(b) provision of equipment, vehicles and houses for O&M
operations; (c) setting up an efficient management information
system and improved planning, financial, accounting and
operating procedures; (d) technical assistance; and (e) on-farm
development. Because of the important institutional
development and policy reform component of the project, the net
flow of benefits is expected to be maintained beyond the
project execution period. The risks of slower project
implementation and production response and of lower
rehabilitation cost savings are manageable given the
government's commitment to the project and its implicit
reforms, which has been demonstrated by actions already
initiated under the ASAL.
'This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Proiect Costs: a/                         Local      Foreign     Total
-(US$ million) --
Civil works                                       17.7        11.1       28.8
Equipment and vehicles                             7.3        10.3       17.6
Maintenance contracts                              0.7         0.5        1.2
Technical assistance, studies and training         1.1         2.8        3.9
On-farm investments                                3.1         2.8        5.9
Incremental recurrent costs                        4.8         3.6        8.4
Total Base Costs                               34.7       31.1        65.8
Physical contingencies                     3.9         3.3         '.2
Price contingencies                       10.7         8.8        19.5
Grand Total                                    49.3       43.2        92.5
Total Excluding On-farm Investments            45.2       39.2        84.4
Financing Plan:                                     Local      Foreign     Total
=-  -CUS$ million)       --
World Bank                                            6.8        39.2       46.0
Government                                           18.9         -          18.9
Beneficiaries                                         2.4         -           2.4
CNCA                                                  1.7         4.0         5.7
Net Project Costs                                 29.8        43.2       73.0
Taxes and Duties                                  19.5          -        19.5
Total Project Costs                               49.3        43.2       92.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
----(US$ million)---
Annual                             1.9    4.1    7.7   L0.0   10.7    6.5    5.1
Cumulative                         1.9    6.0   13.7   23.7   34.4   40.9   46.0
Economic Rate of Return:           26%
Staff Appraisal Report:            No. 5846-MOR, dated January 22, 1986.
Map No.:                           IBRD 19063
a! Includes US$19.5 million of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT A-ND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
[N AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$46 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A LARGE SCALE IRRGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Mcrocco for the equivalent of US$46.0 million to help
finance a Large .,cale Irrigation Improvement project. The loan would have a
term of 20 vears, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I- THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983. Another
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
(No. 4893-MOR) was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economic
mission on financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its
report (No. 4957-MOR) was issued on December 12, 1984. The following section
reflects the findings of an economic updating mission that went to Morocco in
July 1984 to prepare a paper, entitled "Morocco: Medium-term Adjustment
Policies and Prospects", for presentation to a meeting of the Consultative
Group for Mlorocco in Paris on January 9-11, 1985. Data and analysis have been
updated to reflect the findings of the ITPA II appraisal mission that visited
Morocco in March 1985. Country data are given in Annex I
Introduction
3.       During nearly two decades after Indepenidence in 1956, Morocco
followed relativeLy conservative economic policies. Cautious external
borrowings supplemented a weak savings effort to permit onlv a slow rise in
investment, so that the economy grew only at about 4 percent per annum.
Primary products - principally phosphates - accounted for 90 percent of
merchandise exports.  During the mid-1970s, after a sudden increase in
phosphate prices, Morocco launched an ambitious pubLic investment program
which boosted GDP growth to 7.5 percent annually during the period 1973-77.
The phosphate boom, however, began subsiding as early as mid-1975.  Meanwhile,
the petroleum import bill, which had quadruipled in 1974, continued to place
considerable pressure on the balance of payments, and the current account
deficit reached 16.5 percent of GDP in 1977. Domestically, the large public
investment program and increased defense expenditures in the Western Sahara
caused the treasury deficit to rise to 15.8 percent of GDP in L977. Morocco
resorted to considerable foreign borrowings to finance these deficits.



4.       To redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation, the
Moroccan Government introduced a three-year stabilization program in 1978
centered on reductions in public sector outlays and stricter import controls.
These reforms were only partially successful. They did little to stimulate
exports. The exchange rate was kept overvalued and trade barriers were
raised. They did not adequately tackle the excessive budgetary exposure and
made inadequate attempts to increase the efficiency of resource use. The
agricultural sector failed to grow, while value-added in manufacturing
declined. Meanwhile, public investment was not restrained; a number of
costly, poorly-targetted social programs were expanded and investment in
infrastructure was undertaken often well ahead of need. Efforts to stabilize
the economy were compromised by severe external shocks - most notably the 1979
oil price increase, the rise in international interest rates, the
international recession which reduced phosphate earnings and workers'
remittances, and the prolonged drought. Continued internal pressure to
provide social services and affordable basic foodstuffs to a rapidly growing
population put considerable strains on a budget already stretched by the need
to finance expenditures in the Sahara. The 1981-85 Development Plan aimed at
an ambitious 6.5 percent per annum growth rate in GDP. Notwithstanding the
difficulties confronting the economy, Morocco did not appear willing to
introduce a comprehensive program of policy measures which could have
confronted the economic crisis. The sthortcomings in the adjustment
performance caused the IMF to convert a three-year EFF into a one-year Stand
By Arrangement in 1982 and prevented the Bank frum proceeding with a SAL at
that time.
Recent Economic Developments
5.       By 1983 it had become clear that the Government's room to maneuver
was becoming very restricted by debt service payment requirements. In 1982
external public long-term debt (excluding military debt) had risen to about
two-thirds of GDP and 235 percent of exports of goods and services while the
debt service ratio reached 35 percent. Morocco was confronted with the
prospect of a very large external payments gap for 1983. With exchange
reserves virtually depleted and debt service rising, the Government imposed
emergency import controls and budgetary cutbacks in early 1983. In November
1983 the Government entered into an 18-month standby agreement with the IMF
(SDR 300 million, or 98 percent of quota) supporting a stabiliLztion program
which included fiscal and credit restraints and a flexible exchange rate
policy. Shortly thereafter, official creditors agreed to reschedule external
debt interest and principal payments coming due between September 1, 1983 and
December 1984, as well as arrears as of August 31. 1983. Commercial bank
creditors agreed in principle to provide comparable relief on amortization.
The total amount of debt relief obtained in 1983-84 under these agreements was
estimated at more than $2 billion (including $575 milLion of relief on
military debt). In November 1983, a Donors' meeting sponsored by the IMF,
generated pledges of about $500 million of exceptional balance-of-payments
assistance for 1983-84. To meet its fiscal targets the Government restricted
public service recruitment and salary increases, raised the prices of
electricity, water, petroleum products and subsidized foodstuffs (by between



- 3 -
17 percent and 60 percent), and cut capital outlays by one third. At the same
time, it began a significant adjustment effort supported by the Bank, with the
January 1984 Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPA I)
(No. 2377-MOR), to improve its balance of payments situation with a package of
measures to restructure its trade regime. This included a reduction in import
taxation, an easing of quantitative restrictions, and a reduction in export
licensing. Following a Financial Sector Study conducted by the Bank in 1984
(4957-MOR), the Government extended these reforms to the Financial Sector with
the objective of raising domestic resources and improving resource
allocation. Greater flexibility was introduced in setting interest rates,
measures were designed to increase competition among banks, and taxation
reforms to benefit the financial sector were implemented.
6.       As a result of the policies adopted since 1983, macroeconomic
balances improved. The economy's resource gap shrank from 13 percent of GDP
in 1982 to 8 percent in 1984 (at constant L980 prices). This was achieved
through a significant decline in the GDP share of consumption and investment
relative to their high levels earlier in the 1980s. Meanwhile, import growth
has been restrained by appropriate demand management and by the depreciation
of the exchange rate, while the share of exports 1nd gross domestic savings
increased substantially. The Government budget deficit was reduced from 12
-percent of GDP in 1982 to about 7 percent in 1984 (8 percent before taking
into account the impact of external debt rescheduling on interest payments).
Although the improvement stemmed chiefly from a sharp reduction in investment
outlays, there was also a significant slowing down in the rate of growth of
current expenditures. As was to be expected, the rate of GDP growth has been
low (a little over 2 percent p.a.), reflecting the impact of stabilization
policies on consumption and investment demand, along with the effect of
drought on agricultural sector incomes in both 1983 and 1984. A good harvest
is expected to help boost the growth rate to about 4 percent in 1985.
7.       The current account of the balance of payments improved considerably,
reflecting both the better resource balance of the economy and the impact of
the debt relief obtained by Morocco from its official creditors on interest
and military debt service payments. In 1983, the external current account
deficit was reduced by half, from $1-9 billion and 12.7 percent of GDP in 1982
to $873 million and 6.6 percent of GDP. The balance subsequently worsened in
1984, particularly in relation to GDP, but still remained under $1 billion.
In both 1983 and 1984, about half of the roughl.y $1 billion improvement in the
current account in relation to 1982 was attributable to debt relief. I' The
net inflow of public medium and long-term capital (including grants) has
declined sharply from about $1.5 billion in 1982 to an average of only $400
million during 1983-1984- In 1985, the net inflow rose to about $1 billion,
including an exceptional $300 million grant from Saudi Arabia. Nevertheless,
these inflows had to be supplemented by continued debt relief along the lines
of the 1983-84 debt rescheduling, and demand management poLicies to keep
import growth under controL.
1/ Over $200 million in interest payments were rescheduled in each of the two
years-  In addition, the current account balance benefitted from military
debt relief in the amount of $325 million in 1983 and $250 million in 1984.



-4-
8.       Further progress in reducing both external and fiscal imbalances is
envisaged under a new stand-by arrangement with the IMF approved on
September 13, 1985. Preliminary data indicate some slippage in fiscal
performance in the first half of 1985 and disappointing results on external
trade, attributed essentially to weak demand in the phosphate market. These
suggest that stronger corrective measures would be needed to keep the
stabilization program on course including, in particular, restraining current
expenditures and reducing subsidies on foodstuffs and public services. A
formal debt rescheduling through the Paris Club covering maturities from
September 1985 to February 1987 was agreed on September 17, 1985.  Ninety-five
percent of the total debt due were rescheduled along l1aes similar to those
obtained under the 1983-84 debt relief arrangement. The 1983-84 rescheduling
agreement between Morocco and the commercial banks was signed, after long
delays, on October 21, 1985. These recent developments should help Morocco
reach a balance in its external accounts for the next two years.
Medium Term Policies and Prospects
9.       Since 1983, the Government's objective of achieving viable external
and fiscal positions along with satisfactory growth has been translated into a
coherent medium-term strategy to restrain domestic absorption and increase the
efficiency of resource throughout the economy.  The principal elements of
Morocco's medium-term adjustment program involve a shift to outward-looking
trade and exchange rate policies; far-reaching reforms of price, credit, tax
and regulatory policies to remove institutional and other obstacles to
efficient mobilization and use of resources in key productive sectors of the
economy; considerable improvements in the efficiency of government investment;
more cost-effective methods and better targetting of social programs; and a
thorough overhaul of the public enterprise sector.
10.      The shift to an outward-oriented development strategy is the
cornerstone of Morocco's medium-term adjustment program. Continued
adjustments in trade and exchange rate policies will be made to complete the
reform of the overall incentive framework designed to accelerate export growth
and reduce and rationalize import protection. Key instruments are to be a
flexible exchange rate, the elimination of the special import tax (expected by
January 1987); a general reform of the tariff level and structure, with the
objective of reducing the overall level of protection to 25 percent through
decreasing maximum duty rates and evening out the spread in tariff rates
within and between sectors; and finally, a paasing out of quantitative
restrictions on imports. Domestic price controls, which were already removed
in 1983-84 on many manufactured products, are planned to be fully eliminated,
in parallel with progress in import liberalization. Remaining export
licensing requirements will be abolished, with exporters to be entitled to
import all inputs on a duty-free basis.
ii.      At the same time, appropriate sector strategies for the key
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, will be promoted.
In industry, although the development of Morocco's potential for export of
phosphate fertilizers will continue to be an important objective, the



contribution of this highly capital-intensive sector to employment and to the
establishment of a broader industrial base through forward and backward
linkages wilL remain limited. Moreover, a high degree of dependence on
phosphate and phosphate fertilizer exports has made Morocco extremely
vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations in the volatile world phosphate market.
For this reason, the industrial strategy must be based on the diversification
of manufactured exports, including processed foods and nontraditional
manufactures where MorGcco may have a comparative advantage on world markets.
In agriculture, Morocco needs to continue developing an appropriate package of
policies designed to overcome existing constraints to rational land use
patterns, to ensure that farmers have adequate incentives to improve farming
techniques and use modern inputs, and to provide the support services needed
to bring about these changes. A first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(2590-MOR) in Line with such policy direction was extended by the Bank in June
1985.
12.      The low productivity of investment has been one of the major factors
in the poor performance of the Moroccan economy in the past ten years. The
allocation of capital and the efficiency of investment need to be improved
considerably both in the public and in the private sector. In the private
sector, the reform of the protection framework described above should go a
long way towards removing distortions in investment patterns. However, it
will also be necessary to review the bias in favor of capital-intensive
activities inherent in the current investment incentive system, including tax
exemptions and interest rate subsidies which artificially depress the cost of
capital. In the public sector, increasing the efficiency of investment will
require a considerable improvement of existing planning and budgeting
mechanisms, including better procedures for setting investment priorities,
strengthening of project preparation and monitoring capability, and placing
more emphasis on the economic evaluation of projects before they receive
Government sanction. Policy actions to improve the public investment and
enterprise framework as well as continuing reform of trade policy and a
comprehensive approach to financial sector reform are supported by the Bank's
second IndustriaL and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA II) loan (2604-MOR)
approved in July 1985.
13.      An exceptionally strong savings effort will be essential for the
success of Morocco's adjustment process. In the private sector financial
savings have been repressed in the past due to inadequate financial policies
and negative real interest rates. Savings are now being encouraged through
increases in deposit rates and a program of financial sector reforms to
improve financial intermediation and develop the domestic money and capital
markets. But the most intense savings efforts in the next few years will have
to take place in the public sector, which continues to be a major source of
dissaving, particularly through the Government budget. In the medium term,
sustained improvement in the mobilization and utilization of resources by the
public sector will require fundamental reforms in a number of key areas,
including social expenditure policies, taxation, and cost recovery and
efficiency in the public enterprise sector. In the social sectors, where
coverage oF the population is still inadequate, Government activities need to
be restructured so that basic services (particularly education and health) can



-6-
be delivered more effectively but at substantially lower cost. More
cost-effective methods and better targeting will be prerequisites to a further
broadening of access to these services in the future. Food and other
subsidies also need to be targeted to the groups most in need rather than
directed to the general population.
14.      Macroeconomic projections based on the Government's reform programs
indicate that it may take the better part of the next ten years for Morocco to
complete its adjustment process and become fully creditworthy. The growth of
the economy is likely to be severeLy constrained in the early years of the
adjustment process. However, as the restructuring measures designed to
promote exports, improve resource use and increase domestic savings begin to
work their effects through the economy, the external imbalance should lessen,
and restraints on domestic demand could gradually be relaxed. Moreover, the
growth of external demand expected to result from the trade liberalization and
export promotion policies, and the switch in the composition of domestic
demand from imported to domestic goods, fostered by the adjustment of relative
prices, should help mitigate the temporary negative impact of slower public
expenditure growth on incomes and employment.
L5.      The projections suggest that GDP growth is likely to remain low
(below 3 percent p.a.) until 1990, accelerating thereafter. Domestic demand
is expected to grow very slowly until 1990, reflecting the impact of
stabilization policies on both investment and consumption. Investment, which
has been declining since 1978, should continue to fall in real terms and in
relation to GDP until about 1987, then rise somewhat until 1990, recovering
strongly thereafter. Assuming that central government investment expenditures
would remain constant in real terms in the medium term, the adjustments would
occur primarily in the public enterpises and private sectors. Government
consumption, which had grown very rapidly until recently, is projected to
decline marginally in real terms and to drop by 3 percentage points in
relation to GDP between 1985 and 1990. The growth of private consumption,
which already slowed significantly in the early 1980s, would remain just below
that of GDP in 1985-90, and accelerate only slightly in the 1990s.
Restructuring policies should bring about an acceleration in the growth of
exports of goods and nonfactor services. The acceleration of export growth
would help sustain a modest recovery of imports, the overall trend of which
has been downward since 1978. Imports, however, should rise much more slowly
than exports between 1985 and 1990, as a result of the demand restraint and
expenditure switching policies.
16.      As a resu?t of the drop in the GDP share of both investment and
CGnsumption, there should be a steady decline in the economy's resource gap,
with a small surplus projected for 1990. Gross domestic savings are expected
to rise much faster than GDP throughout the period, initially as a result of
improved savings mobilization by the public sector, and later reflecting
continued substantial improvements in private savings as well. The marginal
savings rate with respect to GNP will need to be very high (about 50 percent)
in 1985-90, as a necessary concomitant to reducing the external deficit; it
should slacken slightly thereafter. High domestic savings should enable the



- 7 -
economy to finance the recovery of investment without recourse to external
savings in1 the early 1990s. This will be essential, since, throughout the
remainder of the 1980s, the balance of payments will remain under considerable
pressure because of continuing high debt service payments. By the end of the
decade, reforms of the overall economic incentive framework and increased
efficiency of public investment should have raised the productivity of new
investment considerably, and the ICOR should drop substantially from the high
levels prevailing in the early 1980s.
17.      It is important to recognize that the implementation of the
stabilization policies and measures for structural adjustment envisaged in
this scenario will entail some transitional social costs. With population
growth at about 2.5 percent p.a., GNP and consumption per capita, which have
been essentially stagnant since 1980, are not likely to show much improvement
in real terms until the end of the present decade. Stabilization policies and
measures to increase efficiency will initially be reflected to some extent in
depressed domestic demand, increased unemployment, and some decline in real
incomes, particularly the real income of urban populations, Government
employees, and workers in less competitive industries. On the other hand, the
real income of farmers, who constitute by far the poorest segment of the
population, should rise as a result of increases in agricultural producer
prices and improvements in support services and marketing institutions and
infrastructure. This will be particularly true of farmers in rainfed areas.
The political and social implications of these welfare shifts are likely to be
significant, and to keep them manageable will be a major concern of the
Government in the next few years. While the cost of not undertaking the
required economic adjustments would in any case be greater in the long run, it
will be important to minimize the negative short-term impact of these
adjustments on the poorest groups. After 1990, as a result of the reforms
undertaken in the 1980s, the economy could return gradually to a higher growth
path without endangering external equilibrium. Per capita Levels of income
and consumption could begin to rise again, and the restoration of economic
dynamism would greatly improve Morocco's ability to deal with its serious
unemployment problem.
18.      A steady improvement in Morocco's external payments position should
result from the acceleration of export growth relative to import growth
anticipated in 1985-90. The economy's negative resource balance, which
averaged more than $2 billion in 1980-82. and dropped to $1.2-1.3 billion in
1983-84, is projected to decline steadily, and virtually disappear by 1989.
Assuming that the growth of workers' remittances can be sustained at a modest
pace, the current account should improve roughly in parallel with the overall
resource balance and could reach approximate equilibrium around 1989.
However, the overall balance of payments can be expected to continue to show
large deficits because of the heavy principal repayments coming due on the
external debt, including substantial repayments to the IMF. Because of
mounting debt service obligations, gross public long-term capital requirements
are projected to average close to US$2.5 billion annually during the period
1985-90.



-8-
19.      It is clear, under these circumstances, that Morocco will continue to
require debt relief for several more years. The projections include the
effects of the recently concluded 1985-87 debt rescheduling agreement through
the Paris Club, and assume debt relief from private creditors during 1985-87,
essentially along the lines of the debt reschedulings obtained in
1983-84.*    Normal public long-term capital inflows could then be
approximately sufficient to cover the remaining financing requirements in
1985-87 (about US$1.2 billion annually), assuming that new loan commitments
from Moroccos official lenders can be maintained at their current rate (about
US$800 million a year). Recourse to commercial bank financing, outside of
these guaranteed programs, is likely to remain constrained and overall private
capital flows are expected to remain sporadic, at US$100-300 million
per annum, probably strongly conditioned on, if not directly tied to, speciflc
adjustment programs (such as co-financing of the ITPA II and PERL operations)
during this period.
20.      For the years 1988-1991, Morocco is going to need around US$2 billion
annually to meet its capital requirements. Providing that US$800-900 million
a year are forthcoming from official creditors; and assuming a reasonable
recovery of private source financing of about US$700 million a year, around
US$400 million still remain to be generated each year to cover the gap. With
Bank and IMF transfers stretched to the limit, Morocco's remaining financing
requirements will have to come in the form of further debt relief, grants, or
some concessional assistance. Only beginning in 1992, with debt repayments
from past borrowings and successive reschedulings starting to level off, could
equilibrium in the overall balance of payments appear assured on the basis of
normal official capital inflows and a sustainable recourse to private
financing. If the envisaged external capital flows do not materialize, the
Government will have to resort to severe corrective measures to finance its
resource gap.
21.      In view of the continuing large capital inflows required in the next
few years, the long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed would
continue to rise rapidly until 1988, but would begin to stabilize thereafter.
The ratio of debt outstanding and disbursed to exports of goods and services,
which had risen to 260 percent in 1984, would start to decline, progressively
dropping to 175 percent by 1990 and 114 percent by 1995. In the absence of
debt rescheduling, the long-term debt service ratio would have risen above
50 percent of exports of goods and services in 1985 and 1986. With debt
relief obtained for the period 1985-87, on the other hand, the debt service
ratio could be kept manageable at 24-25 percent during the next few years.
Assuming no further debt relief, it would rise sharply in L988, with
repayments on the 1983-84 rescheduled maturities (including military debt)
falling due, but would then start declining gradually in the 1990s.
1/ About US$230 million of military debt service payments coming due each
year until 1988 are assumed to be rescheduled along the same lines as
other obligations.



-9-
PART H - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO '
22.      Bank lending to Morocco has supported 65 projects, financing a total
of $2,675.5 million (net of cancellations), of which $25 million from a Third
window loan. IDA credits, totalling $45.2 millicn, have been made available
for five projects. IFC investments have amounted to $104.7 million
($59.9 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales).
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and of
TFC investments, as of September 30, 1985.
23.      Until recently, performance in project execution has been
satisfactory overall, although in some cases management problems have caused
delays in project implementation, and in others insufficient tariff
adjustments have affected project entities' financial performance. However,
during 1983, as budgetary constraints became more severe, projects relying on
the Government budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously
delayed because of inadequate budgetary allocations. The appreciation of the
dollar vis-a-vis the dirham in recent years has reduced considerably
reimbursable expenses in dollar terms, thus lowering disbursements vis-a-vis
appraisal estimates. The ratio of disbursements to appraisal estimates
averaged 43 percent as of September 30, 1985, low in comparison to other
countries in the region.
24.      The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investments and policy reforms aimed at structural adjustment and
strengthening the balance-of-payments; (b) measures to reduce the Treasury
deficit; and (c) efforts to redress poverty and improve income distribution,
particularly through lowering the unit costs for the delivery of basic
services, in order to increase access by lower-income groups. Important
structural reforms must be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return
to a path of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external
payments position. A major objective of Bank economic and sector work is to
provide the analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for
structural reform, which in several cases is being supported by Bank lending.
At Government's request, in addition to ongoing work on the public investment
program, the Bank is assisting in developing reform proposals relating to the
public enterprises. Because severe budgetary constraints are likely to
persist over the medium-term, projects now under preparation or consideration,
like the proposed project, are timed and designed to be consistent with the
investment strategy which aims to minimize their reliance on incremental
budgetary funds and, if applicable, support Morocco's efforts to reform its
public enterprises within the framework and to complement the agreed
structural reforms in various sectors.
1/ Part II is essentially the same as Part V in the Second Industrial and
Trade Policy Adjustment loan (Report No. P-4075-MOR of May 6, 1985).



- 10 -
25.      Agriculture continues to represent an important sector in Bank
lending for Morocco. Past Bank lending has primarily supported rural
development and irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, in parallel with successful series of agricultural credit projects.
There are no major covenants in default. Bank's operations in those fields
will continue at a pace consistent witb the country's investment capacity
while paying special attention to maximizing non-budgetary financing and
improving cost recovery. At present increased attention is being given to
agricultural support services at the national level, which are essential for
backstopping regional development projects.  In parallel, the Bank has helped
the Moroccan authorities to review the sector policy framework and to
formulate its medium-term adjustment program covering investment strategy,
pricing and incentive policy and role of the public sector. The recently
approved Agricultural Sector loan was in support of a first phase of such a
sector adjustment program and is expected to be followed by similar
operations, as further specific measures to adjust the prices and incentives
framework are developed.
26.      Energy and mining.  The Government has given high priority to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of domestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this
effort through loans for the exploration and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as well as for power generation and
transmission and coal mining modernization and expansion. Future projects
would assist in the development of domestic energy supplies, including gas,
and hydropower. Through these projects as well as in our sectoral policy
dialogue, efficiency in energy development and use would be promoted through
attention to pricing, cost recovery and management issues.
27.      Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically competent agencies in the fields of road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and community infrastructure
finance, as well as to expand the provision of essential services. Future
projects will place greater emphasis on improving the productivity and
efficiency of existing infrastructure through improved financial and
management performance. Mobilization of private and non-budgetary financing
as well as improved cost recovery in these subsectors through tariffs should
also help reduce the Treasury deficit. In addition to continuing support for
the above-mentioned subsectors, projects are under preparation for railways,
sewerage and telecommunications.
28.      Industrial development in Morocco has been supported in the past
through strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque
Nationale de D6veloppement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term credit. In addition, policy changes were introduced to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive industries. Other projects
focused on phosphate processing and cement production. The Bank's efforts are
now focused on the development and implementation of medium-term policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improving incentives to domestic
production. The first phase of such reforms was supported by the Industrial



- 11 -
and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) loan of 1984 and was successfully
implemented. Further stages of reform of trade policy, as well as a
comprehensive reform of the financial sector, and policy actions on public
investments and pubLic enterprises are supported by the on-going Second
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan.
29.      Education, health and urban development projects will increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-income
groups. Policy dialogue in these sectors continues to encourage the shift
away from capital-intensive investments benefitting limited clientele and the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services. While
previous Bank-financed projects have supported technical education, rural
primary education and improved teacher training, these should be complemented
by efforts to expand basic education and skill training, as well as
restructuring of the formal education system, which has represented a major
drain on the recurrent budget. A loan in support of this kind of reforms is
now being negotiated with Government. The recently approved first health
development project will test new health care delivery systems in order to
improve basic health services in rural areas. Finally, the experience of
projects in urban upgrading will be continued and expanded, with increased
efforts to mobilize private financing in order to reduce budgetary costs.
PART m - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
AND THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
30.      Of Morocco's 60 million ha only 7.7 million have soils and moisture
suitable for cropping, with another 20 million ha in semi-arid or mountain
regions suitable only for grazing and forests. Of the cultivable land, about
507 receives an erratic rainfall of under 400 mm, which can only be put under
a relatively high risk, low value barley/fallow cropping system. Only about
1.3 million ha are estimated to be irrigable economically. Fruits,
vegetables, forage crops and industrial crops are grown under the more
favorable irrigated conditions; but cereals and pulses which dominate the
cropping pattern on 807 of the land are mostly grown under rainfed conditions
where cultivation practices remain, for the most part traditional. Given the
high variability in rainfall, considerable efforts have been made to develop
irrigated agriculture.
31.      The performance of the agricultural sector has been uneven.
Following a period of solid growth in the sixties, when agriculture grew at
more than 3% p.a. and accounted for 25X of the total growth in GDP, Moroccan
agriculture has since developed more slowly. During the seventies and early
eighties, the sector's average annual growth rate, held back by successive
droughts which not only affected rainfed production but caused a serious
shortage of water in the irrigated areas, averaged only 1.27. among the
slowest-growing relative to other middle income countries. Currently, the
agriculture sector accounts for about 17% of GDP and provides about 40Z of all
employment compared with 28% of GDP and 55% employment in 1974.  Since the
mid-seventies, Morocco has seen a continued widening of the "food gap", with
its adverse consequences on the trade balance. Agricultural imports now
account for about 25% of the merchandise imports (approximately the same level
as petroleum imports) and agricultural exports have declined as a share of



- 12 -
total exports. The agricultural trade balance has gone from a surplus up to
1974 to a deficit of about US$200 million per year at present. The recent
poor performance of Moroccan agriculture, however, conceals highly contrasting
trends between the irrigation sub-sector and the rainfed sub-sector. The
progress in use of improved farming techniques and production inputs for
commodities grown under irrigated conditions has been significant.
32.      In response to the worsening macro-economic situation and recent poor
performance by the sector, the Government developed in 1984 a five-year
agricultural sector adjustment program which has been supported by the Bank
through a Sector Adjustment Loan (2590-MOR) in June 1985. The program's prime
objectives are: (a) to restructure the public investment and expenditure
program in agriculture towards quick maturing and high return investments;
(b) to correct the prices and incentives framework to encourage economically
sound shifts in agricultural activities; (c) to strengthen the agricultural
support services offered by the Goverment while rationalizing the role of the
public sector in provision of commercially viable services, and improving cost
recovery in other services; and (d) to build up institutional capacity for
agricultural policy planning and analysis.
Experience with past lending
33.      Bank group lending for agriculture began in 1965, and to date 10
projects have been completed and 10 projects are underway. They include six
irrigation projects, five agricultural credit projects, an agro-industries and
flood control project, five rainfed agricultural development projects, an
export-oriented project, a Forestry Project, and an Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan. Performance under these projects has generally been
satisfactory.
34.      Performance under past irrigation projects has been good once initial
problems of land distribution and organizational delays in construction and
procurement of irrigation equipment were overcome. Inadequate cost recovery
was a major issue in the seventies, but improvements in cost recovery
legislation and sizeable increases in irrigation water and pumping charges
since 1980 are contributing to a satisfactory resolution. The project
performance audit report (PPAR) for the Sebou I Project (Loan No. 643-MOR)
stresses the project's success in institution building and in providing
infrastructure to achieve production increases in irrigated crops. It also
highlights the importance of successful extension work, timely allocation of
funds to O&M, and collection of water charges, as well as the need to complete
the land reform programs before the start of irrigation works. The PPAR for
the Doukkala I Irrigation Project (Loan No. 1201-MOR) indicates that the
project was successfully completed with actual production and cropping
intensity exceeding appraisal targets. The Doukkala II project
(Loan 1416-MOR), to be completed in 1986, is expected to achieve a similar
performance. The PPAR of the Souss Groundwater Project (Loan No. 1123-MOR)
stresses the successful Land consolidation of private freehold and
distribution of state and collectively owned land and the establishment of
service cooperatives. It, however, warns against the neglect of operation and
maintenance caused by inadequate funding and lack of qualified staff. The



- 13 -
proposed project would contribute to resolving the issues highlighted in the
audits of the completed projects by improving operation and maintenance,
increasing ORMVAs' revenues for better funding of O&M, improving collection of
water charges and reorganizing extension services.
The hrrgation Subsector
35.      The total irrigated area has more than doubled over the last twenty
years and presently covers some 900,000 ha. This represents less than 70% of
the country's potential for irrigation. The Large Scale Irrigation (LSI)
schemes cover 400,000 ha or 45% of the total area and are concentrated in nine
large schemes each controlled by one Regional Agricultural Development
Authority (ORMVA)'; a high proportion of investment resources and
managerial talent has been concentrated in the past in these areas. Water is
provided in these schemes from twelve major storage reservoirs or from
tubewells. At present surface irrigation covers 80% of the LSI area and
sprinkler irrigation 20X.
36.      The Government introduced substantial changes in its irrigation
development policy under the 1981-85 Plan. The previous expansionist and
interventionist policy has gradually shifted towards: (a) ensuring optimal
use ot water through rehabilitation of existing schemes and more efficient
operation and maintenance; (b) allocating a larger share of investments for
the development of small- and medium-scale schemes because of their lower
development cost per hectare and their more rapid build-up of benefits;
(c) favoring investments in those LSE areas which are served by existing dams;
(d) increasing farmers' contribution to water management and to recovery of
0&M and investment costs incurred by the Government; and (e) establishing more
effective extension services to promote more appropriate cropping patterns,
agricultural farming practices and water saving technologies. These
objectives are further pursued under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program, under which Government plans to: (a) reduce its administrative and
financial controls over the ORMVAs to expedite and facilitate their
operations; (b) establish a system of medium-term contracts b-tween the
Government and each ORMVA; (c) improve the ORMVAs' financial autonomy by
introducing user charges to gradually recover the full cost of those
commercial services provided by them, while transferring to the private sector
or cooperatives those services which are viable to them; and (d) improve cost
recovery levels in order to reduce the total budgetary support to the ORMVAs.
Measures to achieve these objectives would be taken under the proposed project.
Lssues
37.      Operation and Maintenance has been long neglected because of higher
priority given to expansion of the schemes. Since 1980, however, improvements
have taken place through the creation of separate O&M units in most ORMVAs,
appointment of skilled engineers and other technical personnel and the
11 The nine ORMVAs are: Loukkos in the high rainfall zone of the country,
Moulouya and Gharb in the medium rainfall zone, and Doukkala, Tadla,
Haouz, Souss, Tafilalet and Ouarzazate in the low rainfall zone (See Map).



- 14 -
introduction of improved O&M methods. Budgetary constraints and expansion of
complex irrigation systems have limited the effect of such improvements.
Matters requiring further attention are the following: (a) the need to
establish clear procedures for planning and budgeting well defined O&M
programs; (b) preventive maintenance is often neglected in favor of emergency
maintenance thus increasing the need for rehabilitation; (c) insufficient
qualified middle-level staff to operate and maintain the pumping stations and
tubewells; d) aging O&M equipment of ORMUAs and communications deficiencies;
and (e) insufficient efforts are made to ensure adequate maintenance of
on-farm irrigation systems as compared with maintenance of headworks and
distribution systems. The proposed project would help tackle these issues by
rationalizing O&M organization and management, securing funds for O&M,
providing adequate O&M equipment, training middle-level staff and encouraging
the farmers to play a role in O&M.
38.      Exte-asion has been insufficient and not well organized or linked to
research, particularly for the non-industrial crops. Insufficient number and
training of agents, ambiguous lines of responsibility, loose supervision and
lack of discipline account for most of the deficiencies. Government is
preparing a national plan to improve agricultural extension including changes
in the field organizational structure, detailed work programs, increased
mobility and training of the extension staff and linkage with research. The
proposed project would support the reorganization of the extension of services
of ORMVAs along the lines of the T&V system decided by Government under the
ASAL.
39.      Research undertaken by ORMVAs has had little impact on production in
the irrigated areas. Lack of coordination of the ORMVAs research stations
with agricultural research organizations, and lack of focus of the work
programs of such stations on the farmers problems, together with inadequate
training of the research staff and funds, are responsible for the inefficiency
of the ORMVAs' research programs. The proposed project would help reorganize
the research activities of the ORMVAs in line with the national plan for
reorganization of agricultural research currently being prepared under the
ASAL.
40.      Cropping patterns are determined by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform (MARA) for each perimeter on the basis of feasibility studies
which were cdrried out in the seventies for most perimeters and not updated
despite important changes in the relative prices of products. Although only
sugar production has been closely monitored by ORMVAs in order to assure
sufficient raw material for the sugar mills, the system has not led to optimal
utilization of land. The proposed project would ensure that cropping patterns
are reviewed to improve the crop mix and intensity of irrigation.
41.      Irrigation cost recovery policy in Morocco is sound.  It aims at
recovering, through water charges and a land betterment fee, the full cost of
O&M plus up to 40% of all investment costs attributable to irrigation. To
carry out this policy water charges were doubled in 1980 and in 1984 increased
by a further 65%. A nation-wide formula for indexation was also adopted.
Moreover, adequate pumping charges, where applicable, were introduced in 1980



- 15 -
and updated in 1984, and an indexation formula based on power tariffs was
adopted. These actions need to be complemented by ensuring that the charges
are revised on the basis of the indexation formula by September 30 every year
(thus eliminating the late issuance of ministerial orders to that effect) and
introducing legislation to charge for water distributed by ORMVAs for
non-agricultural purposes, which represent about 5Z of total water
distributed. More important, however, is to improve the collection rate which
at present is about 43% of total amounts due. Under the ASAL the principle of
increasing such rate to 90% by 1990 was accepted.  The specific actions
required to achieve this would be supported under the proposed project.
Regional Agricultural Development Authorities (ORMVAs)
42.      The Regional Agricultural Development Authorities (ORMVAs) are
state-owned enterprises with separate legal identity and financial autonomy
responsible for the development of irrigation, operation and maintenance of
irrigation schemes and promotion of crop and livestock production. In
practice, however they have expanded considerably their operations by
providing a growing number of services to farmers in the irrigated
perimeters. Recently, government has decided to expand ORMVAs formal
development responsibility to the rainfed areas surrounding their respective
perimeters and new organizational charts together with ministerial orders
governing their reorganization will be issued shortly (para. 52). The main
problems regarding ORMVA's operations and performance include: (a) their
organization and management which is lacking strategic and operational
planning capability, management information systems, financial audits, staff
training programs and plhces over-emphasis on commercial services at the
expense of extension, research and O&M; (b) the administrative and technical
control of ORMVAs by MARA which represents an obstacle to their operating
efficiency; (c) the financial control by the Ministry of Finance on an a
priori basis from Rabat; and (d) the poor financial performance of all o2 them
that has resulted from low water charges until 1984, poor collection rate and
low contribution of beneficiaries to the cost of providing commercial
services. These factors have resulted in a deficit of DH 320 million in 1983
for the nine ORMVAs, or about 40% of total government operating subsidies to
public enterprises.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.      The proposed project was identified in 1984 and prepared by the
Government with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. Project
appraisal took place in April 1985. Negotiations were heLd in Washington,
D.C. on December 2-11, 1985; the Moroccan delegation was Led by Mr. Belkoura
from the office of the Minister of Economic Affairs and included Mr. Oulad
Chrif, Director of the Central Department for Rural Construction (DER) in the
Ministry of Agriculture. The main features of the project are outlined in the
Loan and Project summary at the beginning of this report, and a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet, and Map No. IBRD 19063 are also attached. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5846-MOR, dated January 22, 1986) is being circulated
separately.



- 16 -
Project Objectives and Description
44.      The project's overall objectives are to provide for greater
efficiency in the use of existing resources in the 400,000 ha of large scale
irrigated land and to improve the financial performance of the nine ORMVAs in
charge of the LSI schemes to reduce their dependance on the Government's
budget. These objectives are to be achieved through: (a) improvements in the
use of developed water resources to increase water availability by 25% in
about 150,000 ha; (b) improvements in O&M operations in all perimeters;
(c) improvements in extension services and research; and (d) improvement of
actual cost recovery by increasing water charges collection rates.
45.      The proposed project would be implemented over six years (mid 1986 to
mid 1992) and would consist of: (a) an investment component including
rehabilitation or upgrading of existing infrastructures serving a total area
of 150,000 ha, improvement of O&M works over 400,000 ha through contracts with
specialized firms for complex tasks, purchase of O&M equipment, vehicles and
construction of houses for key O&M staff; (b) technical assistance to ORMVAs
for management support and studies and training of ORMVAs and Government
staff; (c) an institutional and policy reform component which would provide
for improvements in the organization, operation, management and financial
performance of ORMVAs, rationalization of their relations with the Government,
improvement of recovery of water and service users charges, increased farmers
participation in O&M, revision of cropping patterns, and help in the solution
of problems posed by the historical water rights and collectively-owned land
in some of the perimeters; and (d) on-farm investments.
Costs and fnaancing
46.      Total project costs, including $19.5 million of taxes and duties, are
estimated at $92.5 million of which about $43.2 million in foreign exchange.
Base costs are estimated in December 1985 prices. Physical contingencies have
been included at 15% for civil works and 10% for equipment, vehicles,
supplies, studies and technical assistance; these amount to $7.2 million or 8%
of total project costs. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis
of projected annual price increases in local currency costs of 10% in 1986 and
6% thereafter; for costs in foreign exchange the projected increases are 7% in
1986 and 1987 and about 7.6% in 1998-90 and 4.5% thereafter; price
contingencies amount to $19.0 million or 21% of total project costs.
47.      The proposed $46 million loan would finance 100% of foreign exchange
costs and 23Z of local currency costs of the project (net of taxes and
credits), excluding on-farm investments which would be financed by
beneficiaries and CNCA, operating under its current lending policies ar.u
procedures, and partly making use of Loan 2367-MOR of March 1984, and future
loans which are currently planned. Overall, external financing of the project
from this loan would represent 63% of total project costs, net of taxes. The
Government would finance the balance of the project costs, or $46.5 million.



- 17 -
Procurement
48.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
Equipment, vehicles and other goods, estimatetd to cost US$200,000 equivalent
or more each and valued at a total of $20.6 m;llion would be awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB). Qualifying domestic manufacturers of
equipment and vehicles would recei'-e preference in bid evaluation of 15Z or
the prevailing import duty, whichever is less. Contracts for equipment and
vehicles estimated to cost less than $200,000 but not less than $10,000
equivalent each and aggregating no more than US$4.8 million could be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of miscellaneous supplies costing less
than US$10,000 equivalent each and aggregating no more than US$0.3 million
would be made in small lots on the basis of local shopping with quotations
from at least three suppliers. Automatic water control equipment of a
proprietary or specialized nature would be procured under contract awarded on
the basis of direct negotiations up to an aggregate amount of $0.8 million.
Contracts for civil works, including irrigation, drainage and road networks
and buildings, valued at a total of about US$36.0 million would be awarded
through LCB procedures. Works for the placement of tertiary canals in Tadla
(US$1.5 million), the rehabilitation of the road systems in Gharb and Moulouya
(US$1.4 miLlion) desiltation of Tafilalet irrigation network and for the dune
fixation in Tafilalet and Ouarzazate (US$1.6 million) would be carried out by
the corresponding rJRMVA under force account using equipment partly procured
under the Project through ICB. These rehabilitation works are scattered
throughout the perimeters and must be carried out without disrupting
irrigation operations so that force account is the most efficient method of
procurement. Contracts for training, studies and technical assistance would
be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines on consultants. All bidding
documents and contract awards greater than (a) US$300,000 for civil works and
(b) US$200,000 for goods and (c) regardless of price for automatic water
control and data processing equipment and the first two contracts awarded by
each ORMVA would require the Bank's prior approval.
49.      Local competitive bidding procedures are generally consistent with
the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the project. There
are, however, a few procedures which are inconsistent with Bank procurement
guidelines and others which require clarification. During negotiations,
agreement was reached regarding the changes needed to make the procedures
acceptable to the Bank, and assurances that such changes take place were
obtained.
Disbursements
50.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of seven years,
consistent with the historical disbursement profiles for irrigation projects
in Morocco. It would be disbursed as follows: 65Z of total expenditures for
civil works, 65Z of local and lOOZ of foreign expenditures for equipment,
vehicles and materials, and 100% of total expenditures for training, technical
assistance, studies and maintenance contracts. Disbursement requests will be



- 18 -
-     ------US$ million----
Procurement Methods              Total
Proiect element            ICB     LCB      Other     N.A         Cost
Civil Works                         -      36.0        4.5     -           40.5
(23.3)     (1.8)               (25.1)
Equipment and Vehicles             19.0     4.5        1.L     -           24.6
(12.6)   (2.7)      (0.7)               (16.0)
Maintenance Contracts               1.6     -          -       -            1.6
(1.3)                                   (1.3)
Technical Assistance, Studies       -       -          5.2     -            5.2
and Training                                        (3.6)                (3.6)
Incremental Operation Costs        -        -         -       12.5         12.5
On-farm Investments                 -       -          -       8.1          8.1
TOTAL                        20.6    40.5       10.8    20.6         92.5
(13.9)  (26.0)      (6.1)   (-)         (46.0)
a/  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the proposed
Bank loan.
fully documented except for works done under force account and services
provided under contracts of less than $100,000 for civil works and $50,000 for
goods where statements of expenses will suffice.  Supporting documentation
will be kept by the implementing agency and will be available for inspection
by Bank supervision missions and external auditors.  Total amount of the loan
disbursed on the basis of statement of expenditures would not exceed
$5.5 million. Retroactive financing of goods and consultant services incurred
after June 1, 1985 for an amount of up to $500,000 is being proposed. To
*             contribute to the efficient and timely implementation of the project, a
revolving fund of up to $2.5 million would be established in a special account
at the Bank of Morocco- This fund would be used to pay the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures and the Bank would replenish the fund upon receipt of
*             satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid were eligible for financing out
of the fund.
Project implementation
51.      The project would be implemented over a period of six years by the
ORMVAs in their respective areas except for the studies on farmers
cooperatives and on the environment, training of MARA staff and provision of
related equipment and vehicles which would be carried out by MARA, and the
training of financial controllers of the ORMUAs which would be carried out by
the Ministry of Finance. CNCA would provide credit for financing on-farm
investments. 80% of detailed designs and bidding documents are completed and
the rest is expected-for completion by June 1986. Sufficient capable staff to
carry out the project is currently available in the ORMVAs. Terms of
reference and job descriptions for major technical assistance and training
items are available; a draft program contract was prepared prior to appraisal.



I *                                     - 19 -
52.      The project includes four components of interest to all ORMVAs.
These are: (a) training; (b) planning, management information systems and
computer use; (c) operation and maintenance; and (d) cropping patterns. To
ensure adequate coordination among ORMVAs and between ORMVAs and MARA, four
coordinating units would be created in Central Directorate of MARA to
coordinate each component. Creation of these units would be a condition of
loan effectiveness. Other conditions of loan effectiveness are that a
satisfactory organization for each ORMVA is established by Government (para.
42) and that satisfactory arrangements have been concluded between Government
and CNCA for the financing of on-farm investments under the project.
53.      Overall coordination of project implementation and institutional
development would be carried out at the national level by a Project
Coordination Committee, which was created on November 28, 1985 for that
purpose. This committee would oversee progress in project implementation and
institutional and policy reforms, and resolve problems involving different
Government departments. This conmittee would be chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture and include ORMVAs' directors, the concerned MARA's central
directors, and representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Interior and
other interested ministries.
Institutional Development and policy reforms
54.      The component of institutional development and policy reform of the
proposed project addresses the problems identified in the subsector and in the
ORMVAs (paras. 37 through 42). As mentioned earlier in the report, neglected
O&M has been pervasive throughout 'he irrigated perimeters. Under the
project, O&M services would be established in the ORMVAs of Ouarzazate and
Tafilalet, and the "bureau technique des irrigations" of all ORMVAs would be
made responsible for planning, monitoring and evaluating ORMVAs and farmers'
performance in water use and system operation and maintenance. This would
include establishing operating procedures, and programs for preventive
maintenance of irrigation, drainage and road networks as well as operation of
pumping stations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these O&M
services and planning units are in place by December 31, 1986.
55.      For the reasons pointed out in para. 38, the organization of
extension services of each ORMVA would be modified to: ( a) include a full
department at headquarters in charge of extension services and structure such
division along the T&V system model, and (b) assign an extension coordinator
at each field subdivision to monitor extension staff in the ORMVAs development
centers. On the operational side, extension work would be separated from
commercial activities and, to the extent possible, from administrative
duties. Each year extension agents will attend a two-week training session on
specific subjects and in addition there would be one or two-day briefing
sessions per month. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the new
extension system is in place not later than June 30, 1987, and that adequate
staffing levels be reached in at least one sub-division in each ORMVA by June
30, 1988. The timetable for completion of staffing in the remainder of the
ORMVA areas would be established at the time of the mid-term review (para. 63)
based on the experience gained. To improve coordination with research



- 20 -
activities (para. 38 aad 39) assurances were obtained that each ORMVA would
prepare by June 30, 1987, a suitable three-year research program (1988-1990)
and that an agreement would be signed between appropriate research
organizations and each ORMVA before December 31, 1987 to carry out such
program.
56.      As part of the reorganization of the ORMVAs introduced under the
project, they would start to divest the commercial services they provide to
farmers. This would be done gradually so as to avoid the risk of declines in
crop production and only when alternative delivery mechanisms exist or are
likely to be created in the areas concerned. To that effect MARA has issued a
circular to all ORMVAs (except the remote ones in Ouarzazate and Tafilalet)
enabling them to transfer over a three-year period input services to the
private sector or farmer cooperatives and instructing them to cease over the
same period commercial services in which the private sector has been
progressively involved, i.e. farm machinery services, animal breeding, poultry
production and veterinary services (other than prophylactic). Furthermore,
during negotiations assurances were obtained that before August 31, 1986,
Government would submit to the Bank a specific program of actions for each of
these ORMVAs to divest the input or commercial services provided to fain.ers by
September 1989 at the latest, except for the farm machinery services provided
by the Loukkos and Gharb ORMVAs which will cease in 1991.
57.      A comprehensive set of measures to improve ORMVAs management is
foreseen under the proposed project. These include the introduction of a
management information system (MIS) based on the restructuring of the ORMVAs
accounting system and budgetary procedures and the introduction of an internal
system of performance control and input-output system; the strengthening of
the planning activities, the adoption of external audit; and the introduction
of systematic staff training for ORMVAs and their supervisory bodies. These
new arrangements wouljd be first carried out in the Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos
and Tadla and then expanded to the other ORMVAs. Assurances were obtained
that the ORMUAs and Government will follow a mutually agreed timetable of
actions to gradually introduce such reforms in all ORMVAs by end 1990.
58.      Relations between Government and ORMVAs would be rationalized through
the adoption of program contracts (PC) which would be first implemented on a
pilot basis with the Doukkala ORMVA, starting in 1987, and then expanded to
all other ORMVAs. The PC would be designed to facilitate the implementation
of an action plan, prepared for each ORMVA and reviewed by the Bank, which
would set forth ORMVA's development objectives, activities to achieve these
objectives, financial and other resources for these activities, operating and
financial performance targets measured by specific and agreed upon indicators,
and methods of financial and administrative control to be exercised by the
Government over the ORMVA. The action plans would be subject to systematic
annual review by the Project Coordination Committee based on previous year
performance and new circumstances. Agreement to introduce the first PC for
the Doukkala ORMVA was obtained under the ASAL. During negotiations of the
proposed loan, confirmation was obtained that a PC for Doukkala ORMVA would be
signed by December 31, 1986. In addition, assurances were obtained that:
(a) draft PCs for three other ORMVAs (Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla) will be signed
by end 1988; and (b) PCs for the remaining ORMVAs will be signed by
December 31, 1989.



- 21 -
59.      In certain areas of the country, irrigation has been practiced for
centuries before the Government constructed modern systems. In such areas
traditional grouping of users took place and strong cooperation existed among
them for distributing water and maintaining the system. Such cooperation has
somewhat declined as reliance on Government has increased. Under the project
such farmers' participation in the operation and maintenance of the systems is
to be encouraged by the promotion of water users' associations in those ORMVAs
with irrigation tradition (Ouarzazate, Tafilalet and Haouz) and a pilot
experience with water users' associations in one other ORMVA (Tadla). Should
this experience prove positive, such associations would be promoted in the
other ORMVAs.
60.      Collective ownership of land in LSI areas, and particularly in the
Gharb area, leads to less than optimal use of land. Of the 150,000 ha to be
ret.ibilitated under the project about 5,600 ha or 4Z is owned by tenancy in
common in the Gharb. This land is often farmed by individuals whose ownership
rights to the land are not established and who are disinclined to intensify
production and pay water charges. Under the proposed project, a strategy
would be developed by September 30, 1986 to increase productivity of these
lands. A committee composed of Gharb ORMVA, MARA, and the Ministry of
Interior representatives would be created by September 30, 1986, to monitor
the carrying out of such a strategy. Assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations.
61.      As discussed in para. 40 above, Government has now recognized the
need to revise cropping patterns. These would now be updated and then revised
as necessary. Each ORMVA would carry out a separate study to update cropping
patterns in its area.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) by
September 1, 1987, ORMVAs would complete the studies for the determination of
new cropping patterns; and (b) after exchange of views with the Bank on the
conclusions of these studies, MARA would establish appropriate cropping
patterns not later than September 30, 1987, and thereafter review them at
least once every three years. Central to any assessment of cropping patterns
is the role that sugar beets and cane would play in future land use in the
irrigated areas. The major problem of sugar is the risk of an inefficient
allocation of resources, including land, to sugar production in view of price
prospects for this commodity. Under the Agricultural Price and Incentive
Study being carried out under Bank supervision, the Government sugar
development policy including the identification of areas of relative
comparative advantages will be reviewed and appropriate recommendations are
expected to be formulated under the second agricultural sector adjustment loan
(FY87) to phase out those areas which prove not to be economical for sugar
beet and cane production. The studies on the new cropping paterns would
determine the most viable alternative crops that would substitute for sugar
crops in the areas where these would be phased out.
62.      Considerable progress has been made in setting the basis for an
improved cost recovery record. A joint circular signed by the Ministers of
Agriculture and rnterior was issued in November 1985, instructing the ORMVA
regional committees to take actions to ensure satisfactory progress in a
program to increase water charge collections from 43Z in 1983 to 90X in 1989.



- 22 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) the Government would
establish, before December 31, 1986, adequately staffed recovery units in
Haouz and Souss-Massa, the only ORMVAs where such units are still lacking;
(b) by December 31, 1986, take all action required to determine and ensure
prompt collection of water charges and betterment taxes owed to Haouz ORMVA by
all irrigation beneficiaries; (c) water charges would be revised in September
of every year for each ORMVA perimeter starting in September 1986 on the basis
of established indexation formulas; (d) water charges in Moulouya would be
increased to take into account the investment and O&M costs of the pumping
station to be constructed under the Project; the schedule for adjusted water
charges would be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the Government by
December 31, 1989; (e) the Government would carry out a study to develop an
appropriate system of water charges allocated by ORMVAs for non-agricultural
use and furnish the results of the studies to the Bank by December 31, 1987;
and (f) the annual statement of recovery of arrears for each ORMVA would be
made available by the Government not later than June 30 of each year, starting
in 1987.
Monitoring, Evaluation Reportig, Accounts and Audit
63.      The Directorate of Rural Construction (DER) of MARA would be
responsible for overall monitoring of Project implementation, including its
physical, institutional and policy components. It would also be responsible
for monitoring preparation by the ORMVAs of semi-annual progress reports and
synthesizing them in an overall annual report to be submitted to the Bank. In
addition, MARA's department for Economic Affairs (DPAE) would prepare annual
reports to be submitted to the Bank on the implementation of ORMVAs'
medium-term development plans, program contracts and annual financial
results. DER would also coordinate preparation by ORMVAs and DPAE of a
project completion report within six months of the loan closing date.
64.      Because of the heavy emphasis -c the Project on institutional and
policy reforms, assurances were obtaineci that the Moroccan Government and the
Bank would carry out a mid-term review of tre Project implementation before
June 30, 1989, three years after the Project's start. This would involve
reviewing the physical implementation of the Project and the progress
accomplished in meeting its institutional and policy objectives. As an input
to this review, DER would prepare, on behalf of MARA and in agreement with the
Ministries of Finance and Interior, an overall report on progress, issues and
recommendations based on ORMVAs' reports.
65.      To prepare for a shift from the present a priori financial control,
external audits of the project and ORMVA accounts by independent auditors
would be introduced under the Project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that: (a) the Borrower would maintain separate accounts for the
Project, and that these accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and their reports sent to the Bank within 6 months of
the end of each fiscal year; and (b) ORMVA's would maintain accounts to
reflect their operations and financial condition and these accounts and
ORMUAs' annual Einancial statements would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the bank and the auditors' reports, including an assessment of
ORMVAs' management efficiency, would be sent to the Bank within six months of
the end of each fiscal year.



- 23 -
Impact on the Government Budget
66.      The measures proposed under the Project on cost recovery for ORMVA's
services and irrigation water, along with efficiency gains in the delivery of
those services in the irrigated areas would have a highly beneficial impact on
the ORMVA's financial situation, and thus reduce Government subsidies. The
major impact would come from the expected increase in water charge collection
rates from 47% in 1984 to 90% in L990 (and 93% in 1994). Action on improved
collection on water charges and cost recovery for services would provide for
increased revenues, but this would be offset significantly by increased
maintenance expenditures. The incremental cash flow of the Offices due to the
project would however be slightly positive, i.e. from an estimated
DH 42.3 million in 1986, to DH 45.6 million in 1990. Since maintenance
expenditures would stabilize after 1990, the Office's cash flow would increase
to DH 88.5 million by 1994 (in constant 1984 Dirhams). By 1994, five out of
nine ORMVAs, covering 80% of the irrigated areas, would pass beyond the
breakeven point in charging for services rendered, and globally net revenues
would more than cover costs by 1994. However, in the case of the smaller
traditional schemes covering less than 202 of the irrigated areas, revenues
are not expected to completely cover costs by 1994 because of difficulties in
resolving traditional water rights. After the investment phase (1986-90),
during which the Government budget would accumulate deficits of
DH 27.5 million, the Project would have a positive impact on Government's
finances from 1991 onwards, with net annual surpluses ranging (in 1990 prices)
from DH 11.4 million in 1991 to DH 120.0 million in 2005 (year 20 of the
Project). The average annual surplus would amount to about DH 64.8 million.
Justification
67.      The direct quantifiable benefits of the proposed project would mainly
arise from: (a) an increase in agricultural and livestock production caused
by increased availability of water; and (b) cost savings in repeated
rehabilitation as a result of more efficient operation and maintenance. Other
important benefits of the project are the direct foreign exchange savings that
it will generate and the positive impact of the improved financial performance
of ORMVAs in the Government budget. Annual foreign exchange savings due to
the project are estimated at $18.4 million in 1985 prices at full development
and the need for overall operating subsidies to ORMVAs exceeding $300 million
per year from the Government budget would be eliminated. The project would
directly benefit 46,500 farm families (or-about 256,000 people) in the project
areas. Employment on the benefitting farms would increase by about
3.5 million man-days, which is equivalent to the creation of 14,000 full-time
on-farm jobs, of which 80% would be hired labor and 20% additional family
labor.
68.      The economic rate of return (EER) is estimated at 26%; the Net
Present Value (NPV), at the opportunity cost of capital of 12X, is estimated
at DH 1,263 million. The innovative nature of the project design and the
pressure on the management of ORMUAs created by the expected reorganization
may bring implementation delays; also slower response from the private sector
to divestiture by ORMVAs of input distribution and other commercial services



- 24 -
may slow down production increases. However, these risks are minimized by the
demonstrated priority of the project in Government plans and careful design of
project with full participation of Government and ORMVAs. Sensitivity
analysis to assess the impact of adverse risks has been carried out and shows
that production benefits and rehabilitation cost savings would have to fall
44% to reduce the EER to 12%, the assumed opportunity cost of capital; on the
cost side the analysis shows that project costs would have to increase by 79%
to threaten the economic viability of the project.
69.      The project does not pose unusual environmental hazards.  Rather, the
project would have a positive effect on the environment by reducing the risk
of schistomatosis transmission in the areas where irrigation schemes will be
improved. The Tadla perimeter has been determined to be a high risk area for
bilharzia, but remedial measures by the Ministry of Public Health are well in
hand. No such effort has been made, however, to evaluate and control the
risks of contamination of wells by river overspills during floods or the risks
of pollution caused by the effluents of the sugar mills. To improve this
situation, assurances were obtained during negotiations that DER will conduct
in consultation with the ORMVAs by December 31, 1987 a baseline survey on the
status of such environmental hazards in the LSI areas.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Washington, D.C.                             A. W- Clausen
January 23, 1986                               President



- 25 -
TA ELC 34                                       ANNEX  I
mmccc                 - mcTAiL IDICATORS DATA 5                    Page  1 of 7
m  cM                               REFCma Caou  (uWRICTUD AERSSI 
mIST                    (mmr mACUT urz ) lb
l  11  _         MIDDLE 1 01 L0  IINCOM
19a sram    m.n   ESTITAI-b   ** AFRICA & NO ET          LAM. A       *RICA  CA
MM lIWSA SQ. MOX
TOTAL                             446.6  c   446.6 Ic   46.6 Ic
ARICULTUML                        192.J      200.1       209.2
mW M  CAA (U$)                         .          ..       760.0             113&.9                  1875.9
-~~~Mw  comuru   alaM Chr1T
(KILYRANS OF OIL EQU1' NIT)     113.0      174.0      204.0              623.9                   993.6
rOMAT. AimD YTL STATISTIC
POPULATION.NID-?E  CTiOUSANDS)  11626.0    14968.0    20S01.0
URJAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)      29.3       34.6       *2.6               49.0                    67.7
POPULATION PtoJEcrroys
POPUIA.TIN IN na  2000 (HILL)                           31.2
SrATIOKNA  POPULATION (HILL)                            70.0
POUlATItON HOHENM                                        2.0
POPULATIDO DENStTI
PER SQ. Nh.                      26.0       33.5        *6.6              37.3                    48.0
PER SQ. XI. ACRI. LAND           60.3       74.8        96.9             470.1                    91.1
POPULATION ACE STRUCURE (2)
0-14 YRS                        44.8       47.5        6-9               43.S                    38.5
15-64 YRS                        52.5      4U.2        52.0               53.0                    57.1
65 AND ABOVE                      2.7        4.1         3.0               3.3                     4.2
POPULATION CROW1H RATE (I)
TOTAL                             2.6        2.5         2.5               2.8                     2.4
URaN                              3.7        4.2         4.1               4.4                     3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATe (PE THOUS)        50.3       47.5       39.7               40.0                    30.9
CUM  DEATH RATE (PE TMOUS)         21.2       16.9        14.3              11.5                     8.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5        3.5         2A.               2.3                     Z.0
FPtLt PLANING
ACCEPTORS. AUA  (THOUS)           ..        25.1       73.0 Id
USERS C( OF r1RRtCD WMEN)         ..         ..         26.0              21.4                    45.3
FOOD AM NaTIno.
ISDEX OF FOOD PtOD. PER WITA
(1969-71-100)                      99.0       9S.0       75.0              95.1                    109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOrIES CI OF RQUIREDENTS)      95.0      103.0       118.0            11.2                    113.2
PROTEINS (GlANS PEA DOY)         60.0       65.0        79.0              77.3                    69.4
OF Wl1CH ANIMAL AND PULSE      i1.o        13.0        14.0 /a           17.8                    34.2
C.HILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       37.6       26.4        12.0              12.8                     4.6
LIFE EXPECT. AT BlXRT CTeARS)      46.7       50.6       52.2               57.8                    646.
INFANT mar. RArE (PER THOUS)      160.5      136.5       98.0              96.3                     59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATEr (%POP)
TrOAL                            30.6       531.0       55.0 I4           67.2                    65.3
URBaN                            58.7       92.0       100.0 7i           93.4                    76.5
RURAL                            19.0       28.0       25.0 7i            45.8                    4".2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             .-        29.0         ..               45.9                    56.3
UREAN                             .         75.0         ..               63.0                    73.4
RURAL                              .         4.0         ..               2.6                     25.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIMA         9410.0    12790.0    10750.0 If          4331.0                  1909.7
POP. PER NURSItG PERSON             ..      274        15301830.0 7;      1345.0                   308.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                           630.0      660.0       750.0 I.          621.3                   362.0
URAZI                                      450.0       6io.0 7;          545.0                   422.0
RURAL                                     5310.0       @io.o 7T         2511.3                  2716.7
ADIS1SIOVS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        15.5        17.9 It           25.7                    27.5
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TorAL                             4.8        5.5
URBAX                             4.3        4.9
RURAL                             5.1        5.8
AVERAGE SO. OF PERSONSIRON
TOTAL                             2.2        2.4
URBAN                             2.1        2.1
RURAL                             2.3        2.6
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINCS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                             ..        63.4       65.0 /.
RURAL                             .                                         ,.



- 26 -
T A B L E 3A                               ANNEX  I
lADLE  IA                      ~~~Page  2 of 7
HROCCO                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEET
MOROCCO                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                    (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
1960-b    19T    NECENT        MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1964b      157n/b ESTI&ATLF/b    S. AFRICA  HID EAST     LAT. AMERICA   CAR
ADJUSTED ENIRLLNENT RATIOS
PRIMART:  TOTAL                  47.0        52.0       80.0              89.8                    10b.7
MALE                   67.0       67.0        93.0             103.7                    10P.5
FEMALE                27.0        36.0        62.0              75.2                   Itl4.6
SECONDAY: TOTAL                   5.0        13.0       28.0              *2.9                     44.2
MALE                   7.0        18.0        33.0              50.9                    ;2.7
FEMALE                  2.0        7.0        22.0              34.6                    64.
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)         0.0        0.0         1.8              10.0                     13.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMAY                           2.0        34.0       36.0              29.7                     29.9
SECONDARY                         6.0        20.0       21.0              18.8                     16.7
PASSENGRE CARSITHWOUSD POP         10.7       14.9        21.5  j           17.8                     46.0
RADIO RECEVERSMOUSAND POP          5.8        62.5      167.7             175.9                    328.3
TV RECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP           0.4        11.6       41.7              5t.2                    112. 
NEOSPAPER ("DATLY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRajAuTION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION           22.1        16.2       L2.6              37.2                     81.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     1.5         1.5 /b     2.0 /a            2.4                      2.4
LS PORCH
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)        3389.0      3939.0     556.0                 _                        -
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 10.0        14.2       16.2              11.0                     23.6
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            62.0        57.0       52.0 A1           42.4                     31.
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               14.0        17.0       21.0 7f           27.9                     2;.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            29.1        26.3       26.7              26.2                     33.5
HALE                             52.1        45.2        4.5              66.2                     51.3
FEMALE                            5.9        7.5         8.5               5.8                     15.9
ECONOIUC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.6        2.0         1.8               1.8                      1.3
IXfl   DISTUTION
PERCEST OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
IICREST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS         18.0 7      20.0 71
HICUEST 20Z OF SOUSEHOLDS        63.3 /i    69.0 1'
LOWEST 201 OF HIOSEHOLDS          7.0       4.0 71.
LOWEST 460 OF HSEHOLDS           18.0is      12.0 1
PW  T  C-OI
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                           107.0       157.0      389.0 If          226.3                    288.3
RURAL                            66.0       101.0      238.0 IE           134.0                   185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..       262.0 /f          431.5                    519.8
RURAL                             ..          ..       157.07F          132.0                     359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL C?)
URBAN                            51.0        38.0       28.0 If
RUIAL                            49.0        45.0        5.0 E7           29.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicacor are population-weighted arithmetic meCns. Coverage of countries
song the indicators depends on availabiilty of data and is not unLEorm.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, -Data for 1960" refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" bet-een
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Most Recent Estimate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  Excludes the exSpanish Sahara;  Id 1976; /e 1977; /f 1979; /j 1978; lb 1972; IL 1980;
L1 Consumption expenditure of households.
JUNE. 1985



27  -                                              ANNEX  1
Page 3 of 7
DEFINmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes. Although the data are dra n frmon sourwcs gcncrafly judgcd the moms authontatvc and reliabk. it should also be noted that thes may not be internAtionally
Comparable because of the lcek or stdrdzed definitons and concepts used by different countnes in coleting the data. The data are. nonetheless. useful to
descrbe orders of magnitude. indcate trends. and characterize certain mapjr differnces between countris
The reference groups are IlI the sane countrt group of the subjet country and t21 a counry grour with somnewhat higher averge income than the countr%
group of the subjet countr tseaceptfor-Hsgh IncorneOil Exponrm  grougv wvhere -'Mddle Income North Afnica and Middle Easat mschoen because oi.. nager
ssoio-cultural afitinitie. In the refeence group data the averages are population weighted anthmetic means ror each indicator arnd shown onh vhen majort
orthe countries in a group has dsta for that indicator Since the covmge o countnes among the indicators depends on the availabilht of data and is not umnform
Lcution must be excerscsd in relaung averages of one indicator to another These averages are only useful in companng the value of one indictor at a time among
t she country and reference proups.
AREA (thousane sq.km.)                                              Crde Sirrh Rxae (per thoasand)-Number of live births in the vear
rotal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.    per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                           Crate Death Rare (per thoNuaadi-Number of deaths in the year
AgricuburaI-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanentlv for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to   Gross Reprotdrrioa Rate-Averagc number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                               will bear in her normal reproductivc period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usuallv five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current            in 1960. 1970. and 1983
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World        Faidly Plaaing-Acceprors. A Dana  f(:hou.saads-Annual nani-
Sank Atlas f1981483 basis); 1983 data                               ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY  CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     FaE mly plannng program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.         Family Plaing- Users (percent of married weae) -The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-     tage of married women of child-beanng age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbandsare practicingany formofcontraception Women
1982 data.                                                          of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. altheugh for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                     groups.
Total Populzaion..Wid-Ye  (rlousaads)-As of July 1. 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NU'TRITION
and 1983 data.
Index of Food Pr oducriasn Per Capita (19691-71 = l6Oj - Index of per
Urban Population (percent of rotal)-Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas mav affect compar-  exclude animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data          incltude primary commodities te.gc  sugarcane instead of sugar)
Popuaion Pojetoas                                                   which are edible and contain nutnents (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popularion in year )000-The projection of population for 2000.      excludcdj. they compnse cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starung with information on       vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock and
total population by age and sex. ferttlity rates. mortalitt rates. and  Livestock products. Aggregate production of each country i haicd
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters     on national average producer pnce weights; 19bl-bR  1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                 Per Capita Stnyf- of Calories fpereet of requirementsi-Comput-
Stauionarr population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calone equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertilitv rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level   tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = II. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also     rood processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The staLionary population    estimated bv FAO based on physiological needs for normal activnss
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considenng environmental temperature. bodv weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and xex disinbution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level                                           waste at household level. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
Population   omenrtum-l s the tendencv for population growth to     Per Capita Supply of Prosein (gramn per tap-Protein content *,f
continue bevond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supplv of food per dav. Net supply of food is defined
achieve&d that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above Requiremnents for all countnes established by USDA
unity The momentum of a population in the year I is measured as     provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 gram,
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards-are lower than those of
ment level from vear r onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein a's an
Popklation Densiry                                                  avertge for the world, proposed bv FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer t100 hec-       Supply. 1961 1970 and 1982 data.
tarm) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                     Per Capina Porerin Supply from Animul ad Puse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agrscutrural land-Computed as above for agricultural     of .ood derived from animalIs and pulses in ra:ns per da%. 1,11 -65.
land oniv. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data
Population Age Strtrmure (percenti-Chitlren  0-014 vearsl. work-    Child(agev 14) Death Rate (perrhousand)--Numher ofdcazh! of
tig age (I5-64 vears), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the sairc aec
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  group in a given year For most developing countnes data denved
Plopulation Growth Rate (perrcer-toral- Annual growth rates of      from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 19'70-83.       HEALTH
Popuation Growth Rate (percenti-urhar - Annual growth rates         Life Expectancy at Rinh (years- Number of *cars a nc horn
of urban population for 1950160. 1960-'0. and 1970-83 data.         inflini would livc if prcvailing patterns of mortalitt flor all peoplk



ANNE I
- 28 --Page 4 of 7
at the time of of izs birth wee to stay the same throughout iu life:  PupMteacher Ratio - primary,.  d secondury-Total students en.
1960. 1970 and 19B3 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary leves divided by numbes of
bIfa  Mwrely Rate (pwr thNaiad)--Number of infants who tie     teachen in the cormspondin blvels
before reaching one year of age per thousnd live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Accss to S     Water (pecn of popekdtlon-,aeal rbwham  and     Pesenser Cars (per trhusnd p.pelu n-fPasmger cars com-
nal-Number of people (total. urban. and rual) with resonable   prise motor ca  seting less than eight persons excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (inudes treated surface waters or  ance,. hearses and rmiliary vehicld.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from  protected  Radio ReeirS (per trhmmsadpoepnltlj-AII types of receivers
boreholes, springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their rpc-  for radio broadcast to general pubik per thousand or population.
dve populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in yea  whe
located not rore than 200 mers from a house may be considere -d  riration of radio set was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rurai aros  not be compable since most counties abolished lcensing.
reasonable acces would imply that the housewife or nembers of the
housedoJd do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Receives pr tJo_sand pohpbaio)-TV revers for broadcast
in fetching the famnily's water needis                         to general public per thousand population; excudes unlicensed TV
Access to Escrete Dispumi (percent of pop_lataon)-tetal, when,  recvers in countries and in year when regitrtion of TV sets was
ad rural-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by  i effect.
acreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Aewspaper Cfrculuatin    thobusand popdon)-Show  the aver-
Exace  disposal may include the coOection and disposl, with or  age cirulation of -daily Sneal interest newspaper, defined as a
without treatnent, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodc  publication devoted prinmanily to recording genral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and simnilar instaUations.  It is considered to be 'daily" if it appears at lkast four times a week.
Popkaton per PhJysidav-Population dividcd by number of prac-   Cinm  An_w Attendancr per Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university Icl.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popstmno per Nu M8 Person-Fbpulation divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Popltion per Hospital Bed--ota, ubn, and ro-sPopulation        Total Labor Force (roaoadsj-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private. general and specialized  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establislunents  various countries are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fem_ae (perc)--Fmale labor force as percentage of toal labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however, inchde health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricuture (perrearJ-Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. et )  and fishing as percentage of total labor forc; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of mnedic  faldities.                                         udastry (percent)-Labor force in mnining. construction. manu-
Admssios  per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force. 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Partication Rate (percet-torA, ma. andfenak-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as toaL malc. and femnale labor force
Aere gm of Flo--hold (perwens pt       Q JM)-"re! -4!A.       as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
nd rwral-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  repectvely: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quartrs and ditr main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting agc-sex structre of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are fromn national sources.
Averae Number of Persosm per Room-toraf, arban, md rural-      Economic Dependency Rato-Ratio of population under 15 and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respecively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts-                INCOME DISTRIBlTION
Percentage of Dwe sng witk Elaticky-iotal, urban, and rural-  Percenrage of Total Disposabkle Incm   (both m cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
age of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjuted Emroll   Rados                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of povcrty
fviary school - total. maek and fmal-Gross total. male and    leves. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aU ages at the primary levl as pnerctages of  Estiaated Absolte Poverty  cme Level (MM per capta1--arhan
respective pnrmary schoowage populations. While many countnes  and rurl-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 vears. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Emated Relt  Pboerty Income Level fruSS per eaptaj-erban
education. gross enrollnent may exceed 100 pereent since Some  and rarut-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are beow or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agc.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondarr !chool - sowl. male and-femae-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
seondary education requires at kast four years of approved pri-  Estimated Populan Below Absolue Poverty Income Lld (per-
mary iastrucnon; provides genrraL vocationaL or teacher training  cei)-urban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agc correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocationa En&omeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial. or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 29 -
Puoulation    :  Z9.a million iaid-1983)                                                                                                    AMELl
CGP Per Capita:  USS 750 giai3                                                                                                          Page  of 7
aorta - Ecrame rmirrrohTns
AMount
(million USS at                                 Anual rowth Rte  1tt1
current prices)                           Actual                                        Preted
Indicator                        19Eh4                  9lU3    113      Lz    i1   a' nil a/          13      1        Li      112    121
NAfHIAL AELaLit
Cr0ss _otic product a1             12145                  -1.3     6.0     2.2      2.4     4.3            2.4     2.1     2.8      2..     2.9
Agriculture                      2023                 -22.9    19.9   -4.6      2.0      6.0           2.0      2.0     2.5     2.5      2.5
Industry                         3932                 -0.1      2.2     3.1     0.8      3.0           1.s      2.0     2.5     2.5      3.0
Services                         6183                   5.8     6.1     3.8      3.4     4.7            3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Consawption                        10647                   1.S     6.0     0.3      1.2     3.4            2.3     1.8     1.6      1.6     2.2
Gross Investment                    2792                  -9.4     1.1   -14.8      8.1    -S.0           -4.6    -0.6     2.9      2.8     3.0
Exports of CfS                      3055                   0.2     5.5     7.3      3.6     6.1           8.1      7.8     8.2      7.5     5.6
Imports or GltS                     4349                  2.0      3.7   -11.9      3.2   -4.2            2.0      2.3     3.4     3.3      3.0
Gross national savings              1325                 -32.2     4.5    21.2      7.9     1.7            3.4     7.4     6.3    IZ.5    11.0
PRIM
DP deflator 11980 = 100)             ,                     5.4    91.7   100.0   110.8   12.8           121.0   136.4   152.8
Exchange rate (US$ Per ON)           .                    .z40    .256    .254    .193    .166            .141    .114     .10
Share of GOP at market Prices (2)                               AverRae AnnAl toereRxa  tt
tat current oricesi cJ                  tat constant 1969 orient           tat constn  1980 prices)
maq un  San   u2 rns  u7s    ia7   1z58                                               19ao-as   mgesa-           s
Gross domestic product                                                                   4.9        s.s             3.1         Z.7          4.9
Agriculture            19.9    17.9    18.1    15.0    14.7    13.5                  -1.4        4.4             0.s        23           3.0
Industry               27.0    3S.2    32.3    30.6    30.1    31.2                   7.4        4.2             1.9         2.3          1.7
Services D/            53.;    46.9    4.6    54.4    11.2    55.3                    5.6        6.4             4.7         3.0         4.9
Consmptson                 3U.s    85.5    88.5    86.8    83.5    79.6                  s.8        6.1             Z.4         1.8          3.9
Gross Investment           18.s   25.4    22.6    16.8    11.2    20.4                  13.0       -1.1            -2.6         1.0         11.2
Exports G975               17.6    22.5    18.4    19.9    24.9    25-5                u-.          a.;9            48          7.6          5.3
Imports GUFS              21.6    33.4    29.4    23.5    23.7    25.3                   8.3        1.7            -2.0         2.9          6.4
Gross national savings    14.5    19.3    14.6  .12.0    15.8   z2.6                    11.3       -4.4            -1.2         8.5         10.6
As t of IMP
nfl       nf  12      1        123 ff2  1a32       1313
Current re-enues                               16.1       23.3      21.6      22.7       22.3      21.9
Current ebenditureS                            14.5       20.2      21.8      22.7       22.8      21.9
Surplus (i or deficit 1-)                       1.6        3.1     -4.z        0.8       -0.        0.0
Capital exlendlture                             5.7       12.2      12.2      13.8        6.4       6.6
Foreign Firnancing                              1.3       3.7        5.6       7.2        3.6       5.0
anX Z  nnzeal uai   unsaaZ in5
DOER INOICATORS
COP growth rate i:l                             6.0        4.9       2.9       2.4        5.1
CUP Per caoita growth raLe Ct:                  3.1        1.8       0.4      -0.1        2.6
Enrgy cansumatton growth rate {zi               6.7       S.6        3.4       3.3        4.9
[C                                              3.0       4.1        6.9       5.8       3.5
argrnal sa.ings rate                            3.06      -0.15      0.14      0.48       0.36
report elasticity                               1.84      0.13      -o..is     1.08       1.32
At market orces.
C   tmiort takes included in servtct.
c   Projected yearS at constant 1980 po1ces.
a   Estimate.
Oecefber la. 19Sa
ErEMA CPUIB
.I  39nS9  P1



Population    :20. *111on (utd-1951                                       - 30 -                                                        AIEX
GIP Per Capita: US$ 750 119B3)                                                                                                      Page 6 of 7
~UMOR a M   IEXIrMAt TRADE
Xndcator                    (mdlilon USS at                           1    Grth 0.taq *SI tat constant lOb  nricmsl
current PriesI                           Aetual                                    Prftected
194I 3211    3213                    21         12                           Z 3 J  211 .   32  3231    192
CEITEAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FMl)           Z169                 2.9     1.1    10.3     5.1      5.5          5.1      7.8     3.2     7.4     5.3
Prlimry products                  1250                -3.6  -11.4      5.6     3.7      5.3          4.3     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Phosphate roek                   524                -5.6  -10.1      5.4     2.7      3.0          3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0
Others                           726                -2.2  -12.4      5.7     4.4      6.9          5.2     3.0     3.1      3.0     3.0
Intermdiate & mnufactures          919                21.9   30.0    17.7      7.0      6.5         13.3   13.7    14.8   *11.9       7.4
Merchaise toIprts (CIF)             3904                 2.9     5.5   -5.4      7.1    -4.3           2.5      2.9     3.6    3.5      3.2
Food                               660                23.1  -.1.5    -4.9  2.6    -8.0              3.0     3.1     3.Z      3.3    3.3
Fuels                             1021                10.6    -1.5     1.1     4.8    -2.0           2.4     2.5     2.5     2.5     2.9
Macnlnwy and equia_nt              733                -7.7   31.4   -27.2      S.5   -1S.1          -2.3    -0.7      2.5     2.5     2.9
Others                            1490                -S.0    12.7   -5.5      0.5      0.7          4.1     4.2      4.8    4.3      3.3
BI=  (1910 * 1005
E,ort price tndex                     .                120.7  124.4  135.9   164.7   173.7           206.1  249.3  276.7  307.3  341.0
Zwort price tndex                                      130.0  142.2  1S3.4  191.0    211.1           239.0  281.2  304.6  330.S  3s8.3
rem  of trade index                   .                 92.5   57.5   55.6    87.3    82.3            56.2   58.7    90.8   93.0    95.2
Comosition of Merchandise Trade  )                             A.PI-race Annual Tner.naa
fat current orcel_                 (Constant 1969 prices)          (Constant 19a0 orices)
lw75 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1970 j  l7S    97SRo    I L75-HK    19e-g5   1SS990q-9s
E.Ports                                                                               -1.3        7.0             S.3        7.5        5.2
Prinry produects                 86.9   74.4   57.3   47.2    42.6                -2.8        S.4            -0.3        3.2        3.1
Interomediates & minufactures    13.1   25.6   42.7   52.5    57.4                 7.9       12.7            16.7       12.4        7.0
mports                                                                                 9.0        0.7             0.4        3.2        6.6
Food                             25.0    16.9    18.3   1a.3    16.0              14.0        2.9             1.1        3.2        3.7
Petroleum                        10.5    23.6   26.0   25.4    24.3                9.6        5.2             2.1        2.7        S.6
Machinery and eauihunt          .:4.0   18.9   15.0    13.5   15.S                12.8       -7.3            -3.5        1.2       13.5
Others                           40.2   40.6   40.7   42.5   41.2                  5.3        2.a             0.7        4.2        5.7
Share oF Trade with               Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with
Indutrre1l aCuntrlexs t21         Deelaotn  Countnes IXI             Cabital Surolus Oil Exporters !1%
32R1      1121       211 1272               1221 360                     32Ri11     II         J3
CaFrEMO  OF rRADE
Exports                            72.3      73-7      76.5          27.7      25.4      21.6                           0.9        1.9
Imports                            76.7      74.9      72.9          23.3      25.1       8.3                  .         .        18.8
, Estimate
October 15. 1985
EDlEA CPIuB. 339i3



- 31 -
Population    : 20.5 million (mid-1983)                                                                                                       ANINEX I
GaP Per Capita:  USS 750 (1983)                                                                                                           Page 7 of 7
scoocco - SALANCE pp PAyfi   EXTErAL CAPYTAL AMP nEAl
(million USS at current prices)
Indicator                                            Actual                    _                             Prnlorted
11K     lull    l2l    132    1l  ul R      2I    a           Jll    1321          I    SL    1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services        4364    4132    3343    3921    1975        3988               4528    5209    6036    6973    7977
or whiCh: Merchandise f.o.b.    2414    2233    2043    2086    2169          2106               2457    2935    3525    420s    4912
Imorts of goods  nd services         5912    cU95    5912    4388d   so0         4787               Sill    5648    6393    7060    7753
OF which:   erchiandise f.o.b.    423'    4363    4335    3627    3904        3637               3839    4258    4781    5168    6005
Net current transfers                  128     102      .70      94       61       64                 69       75      81      87       94
Current account balance              -1420   -1861   -Ih.9    -873    -964       -735               -SI4    -364    -277        6      3la
Net DireCt Foreign Investment          109      73      102      47       51       56                 62       63      75      82       91
Official Grants                         97     313      124     142       16      380                           -       -
HLT loans (net)                       1036    1103    1354      230     442       781                656      564     328      le2   -121
OffIcial                           72z    1033      740      340     372       595                643     560       53    -386    -629
Private                            314       70     614    -110       70       186                  8       4      270     568      578
Other capital (netl                     22     336      395     297     468      -Zz               -135    -232    -154    -179    -152
Change In reserves                     156      36      -76     157      -13     -191                -69      -36      23      -91    -136
International reserves                814      510      540     376      266      457                526     562      534     625      761
Of which:  Gold                    415      280      322     269      217      Z17                217     217      217     217      Z17
Reserves as months imports             1.7     1.0      1.1     0.9      0.6      1.1                1.2      1.2     1.0     1.1      1.2
ExTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                   1711    2047    2230      982    1105      1SbS
Official Grants                      97     113      124     142       16      300
Concessional loans                  761     889      557     209     274       373
DAC                             100      126     125       49     134       177
OPEC                            S84      746     401      115      79       124
IDA                               1        1        1       1       3         2
Other                            76       16      30       43      58        74
Non-concessional loans             854      845    1549      631     1S5       887
Official export credits          12       54     103       50     135        85
IBRD                             64       9      134      174     240       402
Other multilateral               13      123      70       23      24        47
Private                         765      570    1243      383     416       354
Suppliers credits              8       26      52        a      16        19
Financial credits & bonds   758      543    1111    375        400      335
E.ternal Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed   7109    7983    9054    9445   10347    11513
Official                       3496    4373    5004    S894    6s79        7450
Private                        3612    3610    4049    1552    3768       4062
tindisbursed debt                 2154    3146    2487    3655    3093        2359
Debt service
Total service payments 17         1193    1266    1334    1120    1196         990
Interest                        614     634      531    s51       548      506
Payments as X eKports of G.S Z/  Z7.3    30.6    34.7    28.6    30.1         Z4.8
Average interest rate on new loans it)  3.2       8.4    10.1      7.4      7.4      3.4
Official                               3.3     3.7      6.9     S.S     6.7       n.a.
Private                               13.4    13.7    11.3    10.5    11.8        n.a.
Average aturity of new loans (years)  13.7        9.5    11.0    15.9    17.5       12.6
Official                              18.6    11.6    19.7    21.1    203        n.a-
Private                               7.9      7.1     6.3      7.6     6.1       n.a.
As X of Debt Dutstandina at End of Most Recent Year 119811
maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                  49.4
Maturities due within 10 years                                 80.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within First year                                  5.8
Ce Estiate
I/ After rescheduling                                                                                                               October 30. 1985
2/ ServIces Include workersr remittances                                                                                                EMENA CP II-8
I0 39390p2



- 32 -
ANNEX II
"oroc ck
STATUS OF BAhK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30. 1985)
Loan or                                                      Amount (less cancellattons)
Credit                                                               USS Million
umber   fear        Burrower              Purpose           8ank      IDA      Unisbursed
Thirty five Loans fully disbursed                        1.047.47
Five Credits fully disbursed                                         45.16
1416    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          41.0                  14.00
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture          SO.0                  34.96
1681    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Education            88.0                  58.75
1695    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Power                42.0                  19.66
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply         49.0                  12.13
1757    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           44.0                 1S.SS
1830    1980   etngdom of Morocco    Highways              62.0                  12.38
1848    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           24.0                 16.85
1943    1981    CIH                    Tourism             100.0                 37.39
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  25.0                    19.16
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply          87.0                 64.69
2037    1982    BNDE                    OFC                 70.0                 41.44
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)             40.0                 37.37
2092    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           24.0                 21.97
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                 9.S                  7.63
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Forestry              20.5                 17.26
2114    1982    ONAREP                  0il Shale           11.2                  4.16
2149    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Education             38.0                 30.84
2217    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           30.0                 28.79
224S    1983    CIN                     Housing Oevt.       60.0                 S6.81
2253    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           42.0                 40.89
2254    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways              85.0                 81.79
2271    1983    ONAREP                  Oil Exploration    75.2                  38.33
2272    1923    Kingdom of Morocco    Village Infrastr.  16.0                    15.30
2367    1984    CNCA                    Agric. Credit      11S.4                 56-99
2477    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Voc.Training          27.1                 27.03
2487    198S    Kingdom of Morocco    Elec.b. Mec.Ind       25.1P
2508    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Jerada Coal Min.   27.0
2590    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    Agr.Sec.Adj.-        100.0
2604    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    2nd Ind-gTrsoe"  200.0
Total                                               2675.47    45.16
of which has been repaid                           448.Z8      Z.37
Total now outstanding                               2227.19    42.79
Amount Sold                       20.11
of which has been repaid        20.11                0.0       0.0
Total now held by 3ank and rOA                      2227.19    42.79
Total undisbursed                                                         812.12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30. 1985)
USS Million
Fiscal Year                                                   Loan     Eouyt
1986            Frumat              Food 8 Food Processing   5.7                   5.7
1963/1978/1984  ONDE                Development Bank          37.6      2.7       40.3
1966            CIL                 Canning Factory            0.9      0.5        1.4
1976            Marrakech Cement   Cement Factory                        1.2       1.3
1977/1980       Temara Cement       Cement Factory             4.7       3.6       8.3
1979            Agadir Cement       Cement Factory            12.5       2.2      14.7
1980            SOMIFER             Copper Mining             13.0      2.3       15.3
1981/1983       Casablanca Cement  Cement Factory              5.8      2.0       17.8
Total Gross Commitments                                     90.2     14.S      104.7
Less cancellation. terminations. repayments and sales  41.4         3.4       44.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                           48.8     11.1       59.9
Total Undisbursed                                            5-7      0.3        6.0
Not yet effective.
Became effective October. 1985
--- Agadir Cement has been cancelled.
10.04798 p2
12/17/35



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification:                         Early 1984
(b)  First Bank mission to review project:           June 1984
(c)  Departure of Appraisal mission                  April 1985
(d)  Negotiations                                    December 1985
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:                  May 1986
Section 1I: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Mid-term implementation review in the first half of 1989.
Section III: SpeciatlConditions
(a) Effectiveness:
i) Establishment of four coordinating units (para. 52);
ii) Conclusion of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank between
Government and CNCA for the financing of on-farm investments under
the project (para. 53).
(b) Other Conditions
i)  local competitive bidding procedures would be adjusted to make them
consistent with Bank procurement guidelines (para. 49);
ii) a revolving fund of up to $2.5 million equivalent would be set up
(para. 50);
iii) O&M services would be created in Ouarzazate and Tafilalet and
planning units in all ORMVAs by December 31, 1986 (para. 54);
iv)  A new extension system would be in place no later than June 30, 1987
and adequate staffing levels would be reached in at least one
sub-division in each ORMVA by June 30, 1988 (para. 55);
v) Each ORMVA would prepare a three-year research program (1988-1990)
and sign an agreement with appropriate research organizations to
carry it out (para. 55);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
vi) ORMVAs would introduce a management information system, strengthen
the planning activities, adopt external audit and introduce
systematic staff training (para. 57);
vii) Program Contract (PC) for Doukkala will be signed by December 31,
1986;  PCs for Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla ORMVAs by end 1988 and for
the rest by end 1989 (para. 58);
viii)  Revised Cropping patterns would be established by September 30, 1987
and thereafter reviewed at least every three years (para. 61);
ix)  The directorate of Rural Construction of MARA would undertake by
December 31, 1987 a baseline survey on the status of environmental
hazards (para. 69);
x) Measures would be taken to facilitate the divestiture by ORMVAs not
later than September 1989 of provision of commercial services
(para. 56).
xi) Cost recovery units would be created in Haouz and Souss-Massa ORMVAs;
water charges owed by Haouz farmers would be determined by December
31, 1986; water charges would be revised every September on the basis
of established indexation formulai water charges in the Moulouya
would be increased to reflect investment and O&M costs of the pumping
station included in the project; new charges will be proposed by
December 31, 1987, for water allocated for non-agricultural use
(Para. 62).



IBRD 19063
EONTJNAL SPAN         C'  IEAI  GEESE :'IURREE     r                                      5615              CA                                             SPAIN                         .E
F W .,.-           ITGLL AEEOERAISfTAllD\E SIA  Yt
I.-GIOCCp          \I
,!ORMVAGYn         f   t    N                                                      (   /   ITOU^N                                                  ORMVA
~~-uril^NA! ~ ~   ~           ~            ~           ~          ~           ~          A \- .        -)                                                  .wcu                            MOULOUYA
ORMVA'                                         ~~~ORMVAA          -                   I.R                                             
NA{tlA -> ( ~~~LOUKKOS                                                                                                     LOU    OM;A-\1<................. 1rW k
A  N  T I C                                                                                                             -Al
DOUKKALA
-       A                            ORJ'                  RE   AJ- C                                              1,\           fA  L G  E  R I A
i0j >  > j  /  0  y   F Svc--<              a            j
7            -                 O    U~~~~~~~~OA RZ                          0D9.L                        UUARZA          rE                50
s7OUv- -e ; , t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                                                                  O R    O C  C   O
U  \  ,,,s'  LARC                             0 ol    LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION
eNnIMP                                                                                 IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
~~~~~~~~V 11GO 1U SOTCE OREGRIONLALRD SE AS ES VAMELNANT                           ORIAAA IIITSIOIEIICI tETSU.III  IT MSI IN A iAUS ASS COLTI I    4 ,P)l
fZ                   /                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IARGASSCLE NEAION AREAS                           LAKES SCALE IEISAIIOS SEITOIlC1DI]WSN   CIE
/                ~~~~~~I; .CT    5505  IFRNASTE AREAS                                      ERITASI: IESICEIC^I  AREAS                                    .R)N   FIS
|-                  ';S W   FUTltOLE S1ERIRRIAES PAS                                         I UTARI lARESEIT  ARIES5e                                      N!eAS(ClL
SALE TO RE GONSTRCOS                                        '     TANS 10 CE COSITRIICIEII_ _  SITEIAIICIA  ESAST NARTEE
__!NESS ANNJUA  RIOSEL IS SILSISETREI                           GE PN ANNUS ASCAl A1 INI Alil .l IS AILIILI 151                 LEASS       ,lASTERN CAASRAA           ST I






