Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1t,8 7GaA/ao
Report No. 5846-NOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
January 22, 1986
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Argiculture II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performanc- of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRE3NCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Dirham (DH)
us $ 1.00                  D DH 10.00
DH  .00             =      US $ 0.10
WEiGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GOVERNMENT OF KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASAL       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CmV    :   ORMVAs' Local Development Centers
(Centre de mise en valeur)
CNCA   :  National Bank for Agricultural Credit
(Banque nationale de credit agricole)
DEAR       MARIA's Central Department of Training and Research
(Direction de l'enseignement agricole et de la recherche)
DER        MARA's Central Department for Rural Construction
(Direction de l'equipement rural)
DPA        MARA's Provincial Directorate for Agriculture
(Direction provinciale de I'agriculture)
DPAE       MARA's Central Department for Planning and Economic Affairs
(Direction des affaires economiques)
DPV        MARA's Central Department of Crop Production
(Direction de la production vegetale)
FERTIMA:   National Fertilizer Marketing Company
(Societe Marocaine des fertilisants)
INRA   :  National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut national de la recherche agronomique)
MARA   :  Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere de l'agriculture et de la reforme agraire)
ORMVAs     Regional Agricultural Development Offices
(Offices r6gionaux de mise en valeur agricole)
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance or
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower :           Kingdom of Morocco
Amount   :           US$46.0 million equivalent
Terms    :           20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Proiect Description: The proposed Project would help implement and complement the
reform package agreed upon under the First Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (2590-MOR) with regard to the irrigation
subsector. The Project would (a) reduce the need for major
costly investments for the rehabilitation of existing
large-scale irrigation systems covering 400,000 ha by
improving operation and maintenance operations; (b) induce an
increase in production mainly caused by the availability of
increased water due to the Project improvement works over
150,000 ha, but also caused by improved extension services and
applied research; (c) improve the incomes of about 47,000
farmers and create employment opportunities; and (d) improve
efficiency and financial autonomy of ORMVAs, which would have
a positive impact on the Government budget. The Project would
consist of (a) rehabilitation or upgrading of existing
irrigation infrastructure serving about 150,000 ha; (b)
provision of equipment, vehicles and houses for O&M
operations; (c) setting up an efficient management information
system and defining improved planning, financial, accounting
ard operating procedures in the ORMVAs, improving extension
services, upgrading the coordination between ORMVAs and
Government, increasing farmers' participation in O&M,
increasing water charge collection rates, introducing users'
charges for commercial services before their full divestiture
by ORMVAs, helping resol-ve problems caused by the water rights
and collectively-owned land situation, and revising cropping
patterns in the Large Scale Irrigation (LSI) areas; (d)
technical assistance; and (e) on-farm development. The risks
of slower Project implementation and production response and
of lower rehabilitation cost cavings than expected would be
minimized in view of the priority given by the Government to
successfully implement the Project, as demonstrated by the
actions it has already initiated under the ASAL to support the
Project.



Estimated Proiect Costs:                            Local    Foreign    Total
-----(US$ million)…
Civil works                                     17.7      11.1       28.8
Equipment and vehicles                           7.3      10.3       17.6
Maintenance contracts                            0.7       0.5        1.2
Technical assistance, studies and training    1.1          2.8        3.9
On-farm investnents                              3.1       2.8        5.9
Incremental recurrent costs                     4.8        3.6        8.4
Total Base Costs                          34.7       31.1       65.8
Physical contingencies                   3.9        3.3        7.2
Price contingencies                     10.7        8.8       19.5
Grand '.otal /a                           49.3       43.2       92.5
Total Excluding On-farm Investments       45.2       39.2       84.4
Financing Plan:                                     Local    Foreign    Total
------…(US$ million)-----
World Bank                                           6.8       39.2      46.0
Government                                          18.9        -         18.9
Beneficiaries                                        2.4        -          2.4
CNCA                                                 1.7        4.0        5.7
Net Project Costs                               29.8       43.2      73.0
Taxes and Duties                                19.5        -        19.5
Total Project Costs                             49.3       43.2      92.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
…-- (US$ million) -- …
Annual                             1.9    4.1    7.7   10.0   10.7    6.5    5.1
Cummulative                        1.9    6.0   13.7   23.7   34.4   40.9   46.0
Economic Rate of Return:    26Z
Map No.                       IBRD 19063
/a Includes US$19.5 million of taxes and duties.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pag2 No.
I.  INTRODUCTION ...............................................                 1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ....................................                 2
A. Role of Agriculture in the Economy ....          ..............      2
B. Experience with Past Lending in the Sector           ..........      4
III.  THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR ................................. .                 5
A.  Background .        ............................................         5
B.  Sub-sector Issues Relevant to the Project ..............                8
C.  Performance of ORMVAs ..................................               14
IV.  THE PROJECT ................................................                18
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement and Project Objectives ..                18
B.  Sulmmary Project Description ............................              19
C.  Detailed Features ......................................               20
D.  Status of Project Preparation ..........................               25
E.  Cost Estimates .........................................               26
F.  Financing ..............................................               27
G.  Procurement ............................................               28
H.  Disbursements ..........................................               31
V.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND PROPOSED INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY REFORMS 33
A.  Project Organization ...................................               33
B.  ORMVAs' Restructuring ..................................               35
C.  ORM?As - Government Relations ..........................               39
D.  Farmers' Participation in O&N ..........................               40
E.  Collective-Owned Lands .................................               41
F.  Cropping Patterns ......................................               42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Morocco in April-May 1985 composed of Messrs. S. Darghouth (mission leader),
B. Dussert, F. Reeb and W. Ringlien (Bank) and Messrs. Brewin, Corbiare and
Volle (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.  IMPACT, BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....................          43
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries    ..43
B. Financial Impact    ..47
C. Environmental Impact.                                               51
D. Economic Analysis    ..51
E. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis    ..53
VII.   SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS ..................................          55
Annex:     Government Statement on Irrigation Development Policy
(ASAL, 2590-MOR)
Supporting Tables
Table  1:  Summary Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
Table  2:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Table  3:  General Features of Large-Scale Irrigation Perimeters
Table  4:  Land Tenure in the Large-Scale Irrigation Areas
Table  5:  Water Use in the Improved Sub-project Areas
Table  6:  Impact of the Project on Government Budget
Table  7:  Proposed O&M and Management Equipment
Table  8:  Technical Assistance
Table  9:  Status of Preparation of Engineering Studies
Table 10:  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
1.  Organization Chart
2.  Implementation Schedule
MAP IBRD 19063
Annexes (In Implementation Volume)
1.  Project Features
2.  ORMVAs' Organization, Management and Relationship with Government
3   ORMVAs' Management Information System
4.  ORMVAs' Computerization Plan
5.  OMRVAs' Accounting Systems and Financial Management
6.  ORMVAs' Financial Situation
7.  Summary of Institutional and Policy Reforms
8.  Agricultural Production
9.  Extension and Research
10.  Staff Training
11.  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Studies
12.  Detailed Cost Estimates
13.  Farm Budget Analysis
14.  Economic Analysis



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION EMPROVEMENT PROJECT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01     Morocco has a population of some 23 million growing at about 2.5S per
year. Compared with many developing countries, it is well endowed with
natural resources. It has the world's largest and most easily recoverable
phosphate reserves and agriculture remains an important sector in the
economy. In addition, its proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and
labor migration with the EEC countries. Growth accelerated in the 1970s when
GNP grew by 6-7X per year during a period of high phosphate prices. However,
the underlying Government strategy, based on heavy external borrowings, proved
unsustainable when world phosphate prices declined in 1975. Public
investments undertaken during the boom years fell short of expectations.
Beginning in 1976, the Moroccan economy began to experience balance of
payments and budget deficits problems and restructuring of the economy became
of increasing importance.
1.02     To improve its rapidly deteriorating financial situation, the
Government implemented a stabilization program during the 1978-80 period with
the aim of reducing internal and external deficits to sustainable levels.
However, the program did not adequately address the fundamental structural
weaknesses of the Moroccan economy because it was centered on reductions in
investment outlays and stricter import controls and was not sustained long
enough.  The resulting short-term downward adjustment of the economy was
obtained at the expense of growth and employment. GDP growth slowed to 3.6X
p.a. in real terms. Since 1980, Government efforts to stabilize the economy
have been hampered by climatic and economic constraints among which (a) the
impact of the 1979 oil price increase; (b) the severe drought, in 1980-84,
which reduced agricultural production and induced a substaLtial increase in
imports of foodstuffs; (c) a steady appreciation of the US dollar against the
Moroccan dirbam and the rise in international interest rates which further
increased the country's debt service burden; and (d) a further decline in 1982
of the world market price of phosphates. In the short- and medium-term, the
constraints on Morocco's economy will impose a severe limitation on
investments and growth.
1.03     The Government's strategy to cope with the present economic situation
aims at (a) reducing the deficit of the balance of payments through continued
trade policy reforms and appropriate development strategies in the productive
sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, that would increase production
and promote exports and efficient import substitutions; (b) to improve the
allocation of capital and the efficiency of investments in the public and the
private sectors; (c) to increase the level of public sector savings through
improvement in the efficiency of public enterprises and reduction in the



- 2 -
budget deficit; (d) to improve the mobilization of private savings through a
reform of the financial sector; and (e) to accelerate the rate of employment
creation through better manpower planning and a revision of the protection and
incentives system so as to encourage investments in labor intensive
activities. The proposed project aims at contributing to some of these
objectives by improving the efficiency of existing investments in irrigation
and by introducing policy and institutional reforms in the nine Regional
Agricultural Development Authorities (ORMVAs)"'. It was identified in 1984
during Agriculture Strategy discussions between the Bank and the Government
and retained under the Government's sector adjustment program as a priority
project within the on-going restructuring of the public investments and
expenditures. It was prepared by the Government with assistance of the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and Bank Staff. It was appraised in April-May
1985 by a mission composed of Messrs. S. Darghouth (mission leader), B.
Dussert, F. Reeb and W. Ringlien (Bank) and Messrs. Brewin, Corbiere and Volle
(consultants).
H. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Role of Amiculture in the Economy
2.01     Background. Of Morocco's 60 million ha only 7.7 million have soils
and moisture suitable for cropping, with another 20 million ha in semi-arid or
mountain regions suitable only for grazing and forests. Of the cultivable
land, about 50X receives an erratic rainfall of under 400 mm, which can only
be put under a relatively high risk, low value barley/fallow cropping system.
Only about 1.3 million ha are estimated to be irrigable economically. Fruits,
vegetables, forage crops and industrial crops are grown under the more
favorable irrigated conditions; but cereals and pulses which dominate the
cropping pattern on 80X of the land are mostly grown under rainfed conditions
where cultivation practices remain, for the most part traditional. Given the
high variability in rainfall, considerable efforts have been made to develop
irrigated agriculture.
2.02     Past Performance.  The performance of the agricultural sector has
been uneven. Following a period of solid growth in the sixties, when
agriculture grew at more than 3% p.a. and accounted for 252 of the total
growth in GDP, Moroccan agriculture has since developed more slowly. During
the seventies and early eighties, the sector's average annual growth rate,
held back by successive droughts which not only affected rainfed production
but caused a serious shortage of water in the irrigated areas, averaged only
1.2Z, among the slowest-growing relative to other middle income countries.
Currently, the agriculture sector accounts for about 17X of GDP and provides
about 40X of all employment compared with 28% of GDP and 55% employment in
1974. The recent poor performance of Moroccan agriculture, however, conceals
highly contrasting trends between the irrigation sub-sector and the rainfed
sub-sector. The progress in use of improved farming techniques and production
inputs for commodities grown under irrigated conditions has been significant.
1/ ORMVAs = Offices regionaux de mise en valeur agricole.



2.03     Since the mid-seventies, Morocco has seen a continued widening of the
"food gap", with its adverse consequences an the trade balance. Food
produrtion has failed to keep pace with increased domestic demavrd generated by
a combination of rapid population growth (2.52 per year), a hight rate of
urbanization (4.8S), and declining real prices for food. Food Imports have
increased by about 10X p.a. and self-sufficiency rate for key items has
declined (cereals from 86Z to 601, edible oils from 32X to 15S). Even for
sugar and dairy products, for which domestic production has increased by about
4% per annum since 1970, the level of imports has hardly declined.
Altogether, agricultural imports now account for about 251 of the merchandise
imports (approximately the same level as petroleum imports). Agricultural
exports have declined as a share of total exports. They consist mainly of
citrus fruits, vegetables, canned fish and wine. The total value of
agricultural exports has been stagnant during the last fifteen years, and the
agricultural trade balance has gone from a surplus up to 1974 to a deficit of
about US$200 million per year at present. Today, agricultural sector accounts
for about a third of Morocco's merchandise exports and 151 of total exports.
2.04     In response to the worsening macro-economic situation and recent poor
performance by the sector, the Government developed in 1984 a five-year
agricultural sector adjustment program which has been supported by the Bank
through a Sector Adjustment Loan (2590-MOR) (para. 2.05). The Program started
in 1985 and involves actions to improve the efficiency of most subsectors.
Its prime objectives are: (a) to restructure the public investment and
expenditure program in agriculture towards quick maturing and high return
investments while assuring adequate funding for maintaining the already
established productive infrastructure; (b) to correct the prices and
incentives framework to encourage shifts in agricultural activities, while
maintaining adequate farmer incentives in areas likely to be the primary
sources of future growth; (c) to strengthen the agricultural support services
offered by the Government waile rationalizing the role of the public sector in
provision of commercially viable services, and improving cost recovery in
other services; (d) to build up institutional capacity for agricultural policy
planning and analysis and strengthen the organization and structure of the
agricultural sector; and (e) to help resolve basic issues of improving
productivity of land use and protecting the natural resource base.
2.05     The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2590-MOR) was approved
by the Board in June 1985. This loan supports the first implementation phase
of the sector adjustment program. Under the Loan, selected measures which are
crucial to the overall process of adjustment are being taken. These measures
include (a) close monitoring by MARA of the overall sector and subsector
allocations as well as budgetary appropriations and expenditures for key
priority projects and activities within the major subsectors; (b) increases in
fertilizer and livestock feed orices, adoption of a phased program for
improved collection of water charges, and development of a methodology for
setting and maintaining target producer prices for cereals at adequate levels;
(c) improvement in the operation and maintenance of large-scale irrigation and
in the management and autonomy of the ORMVAs; (c) launching of new appr aches
to provision of animal health and breeding services to improve their
effectiveness and to reduce the financial burden of the Government; (d)
implementation of a first phase of reforms in agricultural extension through
introduction of low cost improvements in field organization structures,



- 4 -
staffing, work programs, and training; (e) reorganization of the National
Agricultural Research Institute (INRA) and preparation of a priority program
for agricultural research; (f) improvement of the private sector participation
in the retail distribution of fertilizers in rainfed areas, provision of
greater incentives for downstream storage and better coordination between
FERTIMA and private sector fertilizer blenders and wholesalers; and (g)
preparation of a plan to strengthen Government's role in domestic cereal
procurement particularly in years of good harvest and increase in the cereal
storage margins. Measures regarding the irrigation subsector are described in
para. 3.07. Under the proposed project, the reforms planned to be carried out
under the medium-term sector adjustment program for the irrigation sub-sector
and initiated under the ASAL would be implemented in full.
B. Experience with Past Lending in the Sector
2.06     The Bank has provided considerable support to Moroccan agriculture
and performance of Bank-financed projects has generally been satisfactory.
Bank group lending for agriculture began in 1965, and to date 10 projects have
been completed and 9 projects are underway. They include six irrigation
projects: Sidi Slimane (FY65), Sebou I (FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75),
Doukkala I (FY76), all completed, Doukkala II (FY77), and the Small and Medium
Scale Irrigation Project (FY83). There have also been five agricultural
credit projects (FY66, FY73, FY77, and FY79, all completed, and FY84
on-going), an agro-industries and flood control project (Sebou II, FY74
completed), five rainfed agricultural development projects (Meknes FY75,
completed, Fes-Karia-Tissa FY78, Loukkos FY80, Middle Atlas FY82, and Oulmes
Rommani FY83), an export-oriented project, the Vegetable and Marketing Project
(FY79), a Forestry Project (FY82), and an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(FY85).
2.07     Irrigation Proiects.  Performance of the irrigation projects has been
good once initial problems of land distribution and organizational delays in
construction and procurement of irrigation equipment were overcome.
Inadequate cost recovery was a major issue in the seventies, but improvements
in cost recovery legislation and sizeable increases in irrigation water and
pumping charges since 1980 are contributing to a satisfactory resolution. The
project performance audit report (PPAR) for the Sebou I Project (Loan No.
643-MOR) stresses the project's success in institution building and in
providing infrastructure to achieve production increases in irrigated crops.
It also highlights the importance of successful extension -work, timely
allocation of funds to O&M, and collection of water charges, as well as the
need to complete the land reform programs before the start of irrigation
works. The PPAR for the Doukkala I Irrigation Project (Loan No. 1201-M0R)
indicates that the project was successfully completed with actual production
and cropping intensity exceeding appraisal targets. The Doukkala II project
(Loan 1416-MOR) to be completed in 1986, is expected to achieve a similar
performance. The PPAR of the Souss Groundwater Project (Loan No. 1123-MOR)
stresses the successful land consolidation of private freehold and
distribution of state and collectively owned land and the establishment of
service cooperatives. It, however, warns against the neglect of operation and
maintenance caused by inadequate funding and lack of qualified staff. The
proposed project would contribute to resolving the issues highlighted in the
audits of the completed projects by improving operation and maintenance,
increasing ORMVAs' revenues for better funding of O&M, improving collection of
water charges and reorganizing extension services.



2.08     Other Projects.  Performance of the four completed agricultural
credit projects has been good. PPAR reports stress the contribution made by
the projects to the country's agricultural development, their success in
establishing an efficient credit institution and the successful expansion of
credit to small farmers. They also underline the importance of improving
agricultural price policy, extension and input distribution for improved
economic and financial performance of the credit loans. These issues are
being addressed through Bank sector work and through the medium-term
adjustment program (para. 2.04). In the rainfed subsector, the first project
(Meknes, Credit No. 555-MOR) experienced considerable delays in implementation
due to land redistribution problems, poor preparation of project components,
over-optimistic assessment of implementation targets, and inexperience in the
organization and management of rural development projects. The PPAR of the
Sebou II Project (Loan No. 1018-MOR) emphasizes that as a result of the
Project, commercial sugar cane production and processing were successfully
established but notes the vulnerability of investments for the production of a
single internationally traded commodity like sugar subject to wide price
fluctuations and also dependent on the successful development of sensitive new
crops like sugar cane. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Project (Loan 1602-MOR) was
designed to minimize organization and management problems encountered with
Meknes, and the implementation of both the productive and the social
components is generally satisfactory. After a good start, implementation of
the Loukkos, Middle Atlas, Oulmes Rommani, and Forestry Projects (Loans 1848,
2082, 2217 and 2110-MOR) is being delayed as a result of the budgetary
constraints faced by the country. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(para. 2.05) was signed in July 1985 and has started well with timely actions
being taken by the Government to implement the reform program.
IIL lTHE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A. Ekwl=oud
3.01     Irrigated agriculture, especially in large national irrigation
schemes, has contributed significantly to the growth of Moroccan agriculture.
In addition to concentrating a high proportion of investment resources for
agriculture in irrigation, Government has allocated most producer subsidies
and the best talent to manage these large-scale irrigation (LSI) schemes.
Progress in the use of improved farming techniques and production inputs for
commodities grown under irrigation has been good. As a result, over the
1971-85 period, irrigated output has grown at a solid annual rate of 5.5Z and
an increasing proportion of the agricultural value added is generated by the
production in the irrigation perimeters. Currently, Morocco obtains about 45%
of the total agricultural value added and 60% of its agricultural exports from
irrigated crops.
3.02     The total irrigated area has doubled over the last twenty years and
presently covers some 900,000 ha. This represents less than 70X of the
country's potential for irrigation (about 1.3 million ha or 17Z of total
arable area). The LSI schemes cover 400,000 ha or about 45% of the total area
and are concentrated in nine large schemes controlled by nine Regional



- 6 -
Agricultural Development Authorities (ORMVAs). These include Loukkos in the
high rainfall zone of the country, Moulouya and Gharb in the medium rainfall
zone, and Doukkala, Tadla, Haouz, Souss, Tafilalet and Ouarzazate in the low
rainfall zone1' (see map). Water is provided to the irrigated areas through
12 major storage reservoirs or from tubewells (in the Souss area). At
present, surface i.-rigation covers 80% of the LSI area and sprinkler
irrigation 20%. In order to provide water to all surface irrigation
perimeters, to lift groundwater and to generate the head needed for sprinkler
irrigation, the Government constructed 90 large pumping stations with an
average capacity of 1,200 kW and more than 230 smaller pump stations scattered
throughout the country.
3.03     The area equipped for irrigation, the area cropped, as well as the
water utilization in each LSI perimeter in 1983 are presented in Table 3 and
summarized below:
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION SCHEMES
BASIC DATA
Area ('000 ha)      Cropping      Water use    Kainfall
Perimeter          Equipped   Cropped   Intensity         (Mm3)      Zone
Doukkala             52.7        63.0         131          391          Low
Gharb                76.3        74.7          98          174         Medium
Haouz                28.9        27.4         105          176          Low
Loukkos              16.0        15.0          95           91         High
Moulouya             60.3        58.5         110          244         Medium
Ouarzazate           22.0        27.6         147          104          Low
Souss-Massa          24.1        20.9          95           97          Low
Tadla                97.0        96.0         106         691           Low
Tafilalt            21.0        14.9          82           62          Low
Total           398.3      398.0         108 /a    2,030
/a  Cropping intensity=  Total area cropped and harvested during the year to
the area equipped for irrigation. Since alfalfa is a multi-year crop with
winter and summer harvest, its area has been doubled in calculating the
cropping intensity.
3.04     The overall cropping intensity was 108% in 1983.  The major crops are
wheat (about 35%), sugar beet and cane (15%), alfalfa and bersim (14%), citrus
and fruit trees (16%) and vegetables (9%) (para. 3.14). High yielding milk
production is mainly concentrated in the irrigated areas which provide some
50% of domestic milk production. Land distribution is quite skewed and
characterized by the predominance of small farms especially in Ouarzazate and
Tafilalet, two oases perimeters located in the most arid zone of the country,
south of the Atlas mountains (see map). The average farm size is about 3 ha.
Land distribution related to the farm size is presented in Table 4 and
summarized below:
1/  High rainfall zone (more than 600 nm per year), medium rainfall zone (400
to 600 mm) and low rainfall zone (less than 400 mm).



LAND DISTRIBUTION
Average
Range of Size             Farm Units                 Area                  Size
(ha)              (number)        (X)    (000 ha)        (X)           (ha)
Below 5                99,700          84         143.4       36                1.4
5 to 20                17,300          14         156.1       39                9.0
Above 20                2,000           1           98.8      25               49.5
Total             119,000        (100)        398.3    (100)               3.3
3.05     To accelerate the modernization of Moroccan Agriculture, the
Government has provided considerable support for the development of
irrigation. The share of irrigation in public investments has been high
although it has been reduced since 1980 to reflect a shift in Government
policy towards a more balanced sectorial approach in agriculture in favor of
the rainfed and the small and medium-scale irrigation (SMSI) subsectors.  More
than 65Z of agricultural investment expenditures went for LSI during the
seventies. Under the current 1981-85 Plan, this rat2 has been lowered to
53Z. As a result of the recent stringent budgetary situation, the yearly
construction rates of new irrigation schemes have slowed to about half of what
was recorded during the previous decade: 8,000 ha/year since 1980 compared to
16,500 ha/year before.
3.06     The Government introduced substantial changes in its irrigation
development policy under the 1981-85 Plan. After a policy mostly directed
toward a continued expansion of irrigation in new areas and of Government
support and intervention in the sub-sector, the Government objectives have
gradually shifted towards: (a) ensuring optimal use of water through
rehabilitation of existing schemes and more efficient operation and
maintenance; (b) allocating a larger share of investments for the development
of small- and medium-scale schemes than in the past because of their lower
development cost per hectare and their more rapid build-up of benefits;
(c) favoring investments in those LSI areas which are commanded by existing
dams; (d) increasing farmers' contribution to water management and to recovery
of O&M and investment costs incurred by th- Government; and (e) establishing
more effective extension services to promote more appropriate cropping
patterns, agricultural farming practices and water saving technologies. A
review of the Government agricultural development program launched since 1981
confirms that the Government has begun to shift its efforts toward these new
objectives and is expected to continue to do so under its Sector Adjustment
Program.
3.07     Specifically, the main actions regarding the irrigation subsector
included in the Government's Sector Adjustment Program are described in the
Government Statement on Irrigation Policy prepared at the time of ASAL
(Annex). They are: (a) the reduction in the administrative and financial
control of the Government over the ORMVAs to expedite contracting,
regularizing the flow of financial resources, establishing revolving funds to
undertake urgently needed maintenance, and introduction of a system of
contractual maintenance; (b) the establishment of a system of medium-term



- 8 -
contracts between the Government and each ORMVA; (c) .he improvemenr of
ORMVAs' financial autonomy involving the introduction of users charges to
gradually recover the full cost of those commercial services provided by them,
while transferring to others those for which private sector or cooperatives
are ready; and (d) improvement in the recovery levels in order to reduce the
total budgetary support to the ORMVAs. Measures to achieve these objectiies
would be taken under the proposed project.
3.08     Despite the continuous improv:-ments and the high performance levels
reached, Moroccan irrigated agriculture potential is still far from being
fully realized. Although water and land use intensity is relatively high
compared to countries with a comparable rainfall pattern,1' there is still
room for increases in the existing schemes. Average water use per ha
represents 80X of potential, and cropping intensity is about 108% while it
could be in excess of 130X, offering scope for increases in productivity
through low cost investments to improve water availability and water
management, and provide for better operation and maintenance and farming
practices. Average yields have steadily increased but can be further
increased, as has been demonstrated by the higher yields already achieved in
some perimeters like Doukkala and Tadla. In addition, benefits from better
maintenance and rehabilitation would also be considerable.
B. Subsector LIsues Relevant to the Project
Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Schemes
3.09     Operation and maintenance have been  long neglected because in the
past priority has been given to building new schemes to which the largest part
of the budgetary resources were devoted and the most talented staff assigned.
However, since 1980, improvements have been introduced through setting up
separate O&M units in all Offices (except in Tafilalet and Ouarzazate),
assigning skilled engineers to supervise operation of the pumping stations and
through the introduction of improved O&M organizational methods.
Implementation of these improvements has been, however, constrained by the
lack of funding and the expansion of complex irrigation systems. Budget funds
allocated for O&M have not been increased enough to keep pace with inflation
and currently represent only about two thirds of the expenses that should be
aliocated in an optimal situation (160 DH/ha instead of 245 DH/ha). At the
same time, sophisticated irrigation technologies (sprinkler, tubewells)
including complex mechanical, electrical and automatic works requiring better
trained field technicians, more efficient back up of skilled engineers and
more O&M funds, have been introduced on a larger scale.
3.10     Further improvements need to be introduced in order to address the
problems of O&M in the LSI perimeters, mainly the following: (a) procedures
for the anrual planning and budgeting of maintenance programs are still not
clearly set out and ORMVAs have not yet defined clear technical operating
procedures and have not set up systematic monitoring on the performance of
existing infrastructure and equipment; (b) because ORMVAs operate under
relative financial constraints, preventive maintenance is often neglected in
favor of emergency maintenance thus increasing the need for rehabilitation;
1/ Average water use per equipped ha represents almost the double of that of
Tunisia (5,500 m3/ha in Morocco compared to 2,780 m3/ha in Tunisia).
Similarly, cropping intensity is 108X compared to 737 in Tunisia.



- 9 -
(c) lack of qualified middle-level field staff necessary to operate and
maintain the pumping stations and tubewells; such staff are attracted by the
private sector which offers higher salaries and benefits; (d) ORMVAs tend to
try to perform all O&M works on force account and call for specialized
contractors each time z complex emergency problem appears, resulting in
frequent and costly interruptions of opcration; (e) O&M equipment is, in some
cases, too old, needing frequent repairs or is not adapted to maintenance
needs; (f) 0&M suffers in some areas from a lack of adequate communication;
improved communicationt would allow for rapid intervention of 0&M services in
case of emergency or system breakdown; and (g) efforts are concentrated on 0&M
of headworks and distribution systems and little is done to ensure adequate
maintenance of on-farm irrigation systems. The Project would help rationalize
O&M organization and management, secure increased funds for adequate O&M on a
permanent basis, train staff especially middle-level field staff, supply
ORMVAs with adapted O&M equipment, increase the role of the private sector for
maintenance and repair of main irrigation facilities, and enhance the role of
farmers in 0&M (Chapters 4 and 5).
Extension and Coordination with Research
3.11     Extension.  While some progress has been made in recent years,
agricultural extension in the irrigated areas is still inadequate except for a
few crops like sugar beets, sugar cane and high yielding cereals in some
ORMVAs (Doukkala, Tadla). Efforts made since 1980 by ORMVAs at promoting
extension for non-industrial crops have been insufficient and have given
uneven results. Exte.tsion agents, averaging one for 280 farmers covering
about 850 ha, still devote most of their efforts to carrying out a large
number of administrative and commercial tasks which have little relation with
extension. In the areas where industrial crops are grown (Doukkala, Gharb,
Moulouya, Loukkos and Tadla), the focus has been on promoting and supporting
these crops which cover only 20Z of total irrigated area. In the other areas,
extension activities have been provided through test plots, field
demonstration, ploughing competitions and farmer study tours, which have had a
useful but limited impact on production trends. The major deficiency at
present is in the provision of extension services for livestock-related
activities. Current activities are almost exclusively devoted to sanitary
control and genetic improvement of herds rather than to advice on improvement
of forage and livestock production. The major constraints to efficient
extension are a lack of organization and discipline, ambiguous lines of
responsibility, a lack of precise work programs and close supervision, absence
of organized linkage with research, and inadequate training. The Government
is preparing a national plan for the strengthening of extension in rainfed and
irrigated areas; the plan includes changes in the field organizational
structure, work programs, mobility and training of the extension staff and
improved linkage with research. Under its sector adjustment program
(para. 2.04), the Government has decided to strengthen extension activities
country-wide in three phases: under phase I, which is being launched in 28
selected zones, organizational changes ir. line with the T&V system will be
introduced without hiring new staff; under phase II, the same approach would
be extended to cover all country zones by 1987; and under the final phase,
newly trained extension staff would be recruited to reach an extension
worker/farmer ratio of 1 to 320 (as an average in rainfed and irrigated
areas), having infrastructure built and necessary reorganization done. The
Project would provide for the first phase reorganization of the extension
services along the lines of the T&V system in the irrigated areas (paras.
5.09-5.10).  This would be achieved without hiring new staff or constructing
new infrastructure.



- 10 -
3.12     Research.  Research undertaken by ORMVAs has played an inadequate
role in supporting production improvements in the irrigated areas. ORMVAs run
fifteen applied research stations whose activities have substantially declined
because of inadequate staff qualification and funding. Little significant
output has been produced to support extension and enhance production in recent
years except for estimation of crop water requirements in Tadla and industrial
crop farming in Tadla, Gharb and Doukkala. ORMVAs' research programs are
generally not coordinated with Moroccan agricultural research organizations,
especially the National Agricultural Research Institute (INRA) which in turn
was of little support to ORMVAs because of major deficiencies in its own
structure which is presently under reorganization. As is the case for
extension, research programs undertaken by ORMVAs do not focus on research
work directed to farmers' problems but rather cover too large a work scope and
include fundamental research which is INRA's responsibility. In addition,
staff assigned to the OFF!VA research stations, although dynamic, lack
experience and knowledge in research work. The Project would help reorganize
ORMVAs' research activities by establishing close coordination between ORMVAs
and INRA or other appropriate research organizations in Morocco and by
shifting research programs towards specific problems as determined by
extension and farmer requirements (para. 5.11). These improvements would be
in line with the changes proposed under the national research reorganization
plan prepared as part of the Government sector adjustment program. Under this
plan, the Government has made arrangements under terms of reference approved
by the Bank, for an expert team to develop national research priorities over
the next 5 years to ensure greater focus and selectivity of research
activities. The Government program also aims to strengthen the system of
coordination among institutes/agencies undertaking research to reduce waste
and duplication and encourage better sharing of research results and setting
of research objectives. For this, research agreements would be signed between
INRA and individual agencies executing research funded 'y the Government.
Increased funding would be provided for high priority research projects once
INRA's internal reorganization and definition of national research priorities
has been completed. This is expected to be done under the ASAL by mid 1986.
Cropping Patterns
3.13     Curre.  Ly, cropping patterns are fixed by MARA prior to the start of
irrigation for each irrigated perimeter on the basis of feasibility studies.
They were decided for most of the perimeters in the seventies and have not
been adiusted since then to take into account changes in the relative price
relationships between commodities, net income of farmers and farming
techniques. ORMVAs monitor the application of the prescribed cropping
patterns by farmers. In practice, however, the farmers increasingly see these
cropping patterns as more indicative than mandatory except for sugar and
cotton development which is closely followed by ORMVA staff to ensure
provision of sufficient raw material to the sugar mills.
3.14     A comparison between the actual cropping in the LSI areas and the
cropping currently prescribed by the Government for full deveiopment shows
that objectives are currently only met for sugar beet and citrus fruit trees.
Cereals have been introduced on a scale larger than anticipated whereas areas
under vegetables, forages, sugar cane and cotton remain below projections as
shown in the following table comparing actual with planned cropping:



- 1.1 -
PRESENT AND POTENTIAL CROPPING PATTERN_
Present Cropping    Full Development
Pattern        Cropping Pattern  Achievement
Crops                  Area /a              Area /b
('000 ha)   (Z)    ('000 ha)    (Z)       (Z)
Cereals:
- Winter (Wheat)             141.6                  98.0              144
- Summer (Maize)               9.8                  18.5               53
151.4     38         116.5      26      130
Industrial Crops:
- Sugar Beet                  44.9                 42.9               102
- Sugar Cane                  15.0                  28.1               52
- Cotton                       9.1                  21.8               42
69.0     17          92.8     21        74
Vegetables                         46.6     12          65.8      15       71
Forages                            45.7     11          93.0     21        49
Fruit trees:
- Citrus                      30.0                  29.5              102
- Others                      30.4                  35.9               85
60.4     15          65.4     15        92
Other Crops                        25.0      7           9.5      2       260
TOTAL:                  398.0    100         443.0    100        85
/a Average 1981-83, without taking account of the Garet sector (13,500 ha)
recently irrigated in Moulouya
lb As estimated in feasibility studies and prescribed by Government.
Through the current policy, Government has succeeded in increasing sugar crop
production in most areas where a mill exists, it has been less successful in
cotton (except in Tadla) whose production has steadily decreased leading to
the closure of many ginning mills. Irrigation intensities remain below
objectives. Action would be taken under the Project to ensure frequent
revision of the croppping patterns (paras. 5.23-5.24).
Irrigation Cost Recovery
3.15     Substantial improvements in cost recovery policy have been introduced
in the last five years, but measures are required to ensure full
implementation of this policy. Current Government policy is to recover,
through water charges and a land betterment levy, the full cost of operation
and maintenance and up to 40% of all investment costs chargeable to
irrigation. The water charges, including basic water charges in all areas and



- 12 -
additional charges where pumping is necessary, are applied on a per m3 basis,
and the betterment levy is applied on a per ha basis. The first 5 ha of
holdings of less than 20 ha are exempted from paying the land betterment
levy. Between 1969 and 1980, the levels of water charges were not changed,
resulting in low water sale revenues which did not recover all operation
and maintenance costs; no pumping charges were applied; and the betterment
levy was fixed and amounted to only DH 1,500/ha despite increases in
irrigation development costs and represented only about 7% of the investmect
costs in 1980.
3.16     Substantial changes were made in water charges in 1980 and in 1984.
These include:
(a) for the existing schemes (which correspond to the Project area) (i)
water charges were about doubled in 1980 and increased a further 65Z
over the new 1980 price in L984, and a nation-wide formula for
indexation was adopted; (ii) the introduction and then the increase
of pumping charges, where they apply, (the increase was 160Z in 1984
over 1980) and adoption of a formula for their indexation to
electricity tariff increases; actual adjustments between 1969 and
1984 were as follows:
CHANGES IN WATER CHARGES'' (in 0.01 DH/m3)
1969        1980                             1 9 8 4
BWC   PC   BWC    PC                 BWC                 PC
Increase            Increase
ORMVAs     --       Amount -              Amount over 1980  Amount over 19E)
(Z)                (Z)
D3ukkala      2.9   0    5.4   1.6-5.8         8.9     (65)    4.2-15.1   (160)
Gharb         2.9   0    5.8      5.0          9.5     (65)      13.4       (168)
Haouz         2.9   -    4.5       -           7.4     (65)        -           -
Loukkos       2.9   0    5.8   5.0-5.8         9.5     (65)   13.0-15.1   (160)
Moulouya      2.9   0    5.8   3.6-55          9.5     (65)    9.4-14.2   (160)
Ouerzazate   2.9   -    4.8        -           7.8     (65)        -           -
Souss-Massa  2.9   0    5.8       5.5          9.5     (65)      14.2       (160)
Tadla         2.9   -    4.8       -           7.9     (65)        -           -
Tafilalet    2.9   -    4.8        -           7.8     (65)        -           -
/a  BWC = Basic Water Charges.
PC = Pumping Charges.
(D) for all new investments, made after 1984 (i) a recovery, through the
water charges and from all farmers of 10% of investment ccsts in
addition to current levies covering 100% of O&M and land betterment
levies; and (ii) an increase of the l.nd betterment levy, from the
present fixed amount of DH 1,500 to up to 30% of actua' investment
costs.
3.17     Several problems still need to be resolved.  The first is that
despite the progress made in setting formulas for indexing water charges, the
procedures for indexation have been slow: joint-ministerial orders (arretes)



- 13 -
involving at least MARA and Ministry of Finance are required to enforce
increases in water charges based on the existing indexation formulas. The
issuance of such orders takes time, thus eliminating the spirit of automatic
indexation. The second problem in cost recovery is that no legislation exists
in Morocco governing the tariffs for water distributed by ORMVAs for non
agricultural use (water supply, industries), which currently represents about
5X of total distributed water. The third problem relates to the collection of
water charges. Collection rate has been low in some areas. In 1983, the
overall collection rate averaged 43% and ranged from 12% in Souss Massa to
100% in Doukkala (see para. 6.12). The main reasons for this poor collection
rate are that: (a) political interference has, in some areas, prevented
ORMVAs from applying the necessary measures to recover water charges from
refractory farmers; and (b) the Government accountants ("agents comptables"),
who are Ministry of Finance employees legally empowered to collect ORMVAs'
debts including water charges arrears, have not been able to adequately
fulfill this duty because they lack personnel in their recovery units recently
established in all ORMVAs, except in Haouz and Souss-Massa ORMVAs.
3.18     In about 15% of the LSI areas, in the Haouz, Ouarzazate, and
Tafilalet schemes, existing water rights have prevented progress in collecting
water charges.   Water rights in these areas are based on patterns of water
use established in some cases over several centuries and are reccgnized in a
1914 law which declares all water to be in the public domain except water
rights acquired by users before 1914. However, the 1969 Agricultural
Investment Code provides a mechanism for the expropriation of water rights in
all the areas where the Government introduces modern irrigation which ensures
higher quantities and more efficient utilization of water resources; such
areas are defined by a "delimitation" decree issued before the start of the
construction works. Construction of the Haouz, Ouarzazate and Tafilalet
schemes started in early 1970 and have been "delimited" by decree in
accordance with the Code. The procedure defined by the Code for the
expropriation of water rights and application of water charges includes (a) a
survey of the existing rights; (b) the issuance of a decree registering the
rightholders and the rights; (c) the issuance of a decree of expropriation of
these rights; (d) the determination of a formula for farmers' compensation in
agreement with the rightholders; and (e) payment of compensation and levying
of water charges.  The Code also provides a procedure for resolv:ng disputes
regarding the rights and the compensation for exprc-riation thereof. In
practice, this expropriation procedure has not often been used. The only
exception is the Haouz area where the ORMVA and Goveinment have made
substantial progress by surveying the existing rights, finalizing a decree for
their registration and expropriation and setting a formula for farmers'
compensation. The proposed farmers' compensation consists of exempting
farmers from paying for the waLer they have utilized over the first ten years,
since the new modern irrigation system was put under irrigation. The
different irrigation sectors in Haouz were irrigated starting in 1971.
3.19     The Government's objective under the medium term adjustment program
(para. 2.04) is to increase collection levels to 90% of 1989, and the present
project would include actions to support this objective, including steps to
complete the determination of water charges owed by beneficiaries in Haouz.
It would also introduce further improvements in cost recovery policy (paras.
6.11 to 6.13).



- 14 -
C. Performance of ORMVAs
Background
3.20     The development and operation of the LSI schemes is the
responsibility of nine Regional Agriculture Development Authorities
(ORMVAs)1' which are state-owned enterprises with a separate legal identity
and financial autonomy. These enterprises have played a key role in the rapid
growth of the irrigation sub-sector but this has been achieved at the cost of
heavy Government financial support.  Under their charter, ORMVAs are primarily
responsible for expanding irrigation over new areas, operating and maintaining
the irrigation schemes and promoting crop and livestock production. In
practice, however, they have considerably expanded their operations by
providing a growing number of services to farmers. In addition to their
primary tasks, they provide a large number of subsidized commercial services
(para. 3.25). They are also responsible for developing agriculture in the
rainfed areas within their jurisdiction* , but they have actually done
little to develop crop production in these areas except in those with highest
rainfall (Loukkos and Gharb); their main activity in the rainfed areas has
been to design, contract and supervise communal construction works financed by
the provincial and local authorities. In comparison with the other MARA
Regional departments (DPA), autonomy has enabled ORMVAs to be more efficient,
have considerable project preparation and implementation capacities, have
larger budgetary resources, and attract more competent staff who are offered
more benefits.
3.21     The ORMVAs are generally organized into seven Services:
Administration and Finance, Crop Production, Livestock, Construction, O&M,
Planning, and Equipment and Building.  Because of the large number of their
operating responsibilities at the field level many Services have field
subdivisional offices providing their services through Local Development
Centers (CMV: Centre de mise en valeur). Overall, ORMVAs have 60 Services,
91 field subdivisional offices and 158 CMVs. ORMVAs have formal supervisory
and consultative bodies where farmers are well represented (see Organization
Chart). These bodies include (a) a Board of Directors chaired by the Minister
of Agriculture and including the Provincial Governors concerned, the MARA
central department directors and representatives of other Ministries, farmers
and CNCA (b) a Regional Committee (Comite Technique) under the chairmanship of
one of the provincial governors concerned and including representatives of the
Ministries' regional departments concerned, farmers and CNCA; and (c) local
development committees (commissions locales de mise en valeur) established at
the district (Province sub-division) level to advise, monitor and help resolve
problems which may occur between ORMVAs and farmers during land consolidation,
construction, water distribution and crop production. These three bodies
generally meet regularly on the yearly, semi-annually and weekly basis,
respectively.
1/ The list of the n-.:e ORMVAs is in para. 3.02.
2/ At present, ORMVAs control about 1.35 million ha of rainfed and
small-scale irrigation areas in addition to the 400,000 ha of large-scale
irrigation.



- 15 -
ORMVA Organization and Management
3.22     Internally, the ORMVAs a-_ in need of organization and management
reforms to overcome weaknesses which have begun to show up under
the weight of their growing responsibilities and rapid expansion. These
shortcomings are: (a) the absence of comprehensive staff training; (b) the
lack of strategic and operational planning; (c) the absence of a system for
management information, necessary for sound decision-making and the lack of a
coherent monitoring and evaluation system allowing ORMVAs to monitor
input/output and efficiency of their operations; (d) the absence of audit of
ORMVAs' accounts and of internal management control; and (e) an over-emphasis
on commercial services at the expense of extension and research and O&M.
3.23     Although not impaired by serious overstaffing, ORMVAs need to improve
tht skills and the structure of their staff. Total staff are 10,500
comprising 51 of engineers or equivalent, 65% of middle-level technical staff
or equivalent and 35? of support staff. This represents an average of one
employee per 40 irrigated ha (in addition to about 120 ha of rainfed land) and
about 12 farmers-L. Since 1983, the policy of the Government has been to
increase efficiency and improve structure of ORMVAs' staffing by limiting
recruitment of new staff to the essential needs in high level technical staff
and not to replace any support staff who retire. The Project would strengthen
this policy by implementing a major training program of key staff (para. 4.16)
and by focusing staff activities on operations which have more impact on
increasing production, i.e., by curtailing commercial services, ORMVAs would
allow their staff to devote more time and efforts to operation and
maintenance, extension and research.
3.24     The Government has recently decided-!  to expand the ORMVAs' formal
development responsibility to the surrounding rainfed areas. Its objective is
to improve the field implementation capacity in rainfed areas by taking
advantage of ORHVAs' better operational flexibility, working methods and staff
skills and motivation. About 50% of the Moroccan cultivable land would be
covered this way, and the Government plans to establish, probably in 1988-89,
three new ORMVAs once the expansion of the nine existing ORMVAs is fully
implemented. Although the new reorganization would simply result in a shift
in staffing among the MARA services, the expansion of responsibility should
not divert ORMVAs from improving their operational efficiency in the LSI areas
as is intended under the Project. The Project would help implement a set of
measures to address the present inefficiencies and imbalances of the ORMVAs'
organization taking into account the need for ORMVAs to be organized
adequately in order to handle their enlarged responsibilities for rainfed
development without neglecting their operations in the irrigation sub-sector
(Chapter V-B).
Provision of Commercial Services by ORMVAs
3.25     ORMVAs provide a large number of commercial services in addition to
carrying out activities related to their primary tasks. These services
1/ In Tunisia, the rate is one employee per 20 ha and 8 farmers.
2/ Decree dated March 6, 1985.



- 16 -
include (a) input supply, (b) farm mechanization, (c) numerous services
provided for the industrial crop growers (collective borrowing of seasonal
credit from CNCA on behalf of growers, provision of cash advances to farmers,
control of harvesting and transport of produces to the plants, book-keeping of
farmers' accounts, and final payments of farmers); (d) establishment and
management of farmer cooperatives; (e) health control and genetic improvement
of livestock; and (f) design, contracting and supervising of rural
construction works ordered by provincial and local authorities in the
irrigated and the rainfed areas. Although provision of these services by
ORMVAs was decisive in promoting irrigated agriculture in the past, it is no
longer justified due to the burden it represents on their operating budget and
the negative impact it has had on the promotion of the private dealers in the
LSI areas where adequate and less costly alternatives exist. These services
are also time consuming and take field staff from technical work. They are
largely subsidized, since charges applied by ORMVAs to cover their handling
costs are either nil or much lower than the real ccZrA. The Government has
taken measures under the ASAL to close down some of the public sector
fertilizers sales outlets located in commercially viable rainfed zones where
private retailing has become well established. Measures would be taken under
the Project to extend this reform to the LSI areas by transferring the
conmercial services currently provided by ORMVAs to the private sector and
cooperatives wherever feasible (para. 5.12).
Government Control. of ORMVAs
3.26     Procedures and mechanisms of the administrative and technical control
of ORMUAs are cumbersome and represent a serious obstacle to their work
efficiency. Although it is supposed to be exercised by various of MARA's
central departments, each in the field of its concern, this control is in
practice mainly exercised by the Central Directorate for Rural Construction
(DER)1' of MARA. DER is in principle responsible for preparing
water-related legislation, carrying out inter-regional water development
studies, and reviewing and agreeing on the ORMVAs' budgets, work programs and
progress, and procurement procedures and documents. In practice, its
activities are mostly focused on preparing water legislation and reviewing
ORMVAs' budget plans and proposals for bid evaluation and awards for all
contracts of amounts exceeding the thresholds specified by the law (DH 100,000
for studies and DH 500,000 for other items). The low level of these
threshholds combined with the large number of contracts, and the systematic
review by DER of all submitted contracts cause lengthy delays in ORMVAs'
work. In addition, despite its recent efforts, DER has not yet succeeded in
building up strong monitoring and evaluation of ORMVAs' activities and
performance, and does not have clear medium-term objectives for the
development of the sub-sector.
3.27     The financial control exercised by the Ministry of Finance (MF) is a
major manifestation of the fact that, despite their legal character as a
separate legal entity, ORMVAs suffer from lack of real autonomy vis-a-vis the
state. This control is done almost exclusively on an a priori basis and
mostly centralized in Rabat. The most common shortcomings of the financial
1/ DER = Direction de l'equipement rural.



- 17 -
control system are that: (a) considerable amounts of time are spent by MF
reviewing and discussing ORMVAs' proposals for the annual budget programs and
fund releases; (b) the ORMVAs are not allowed to commit or use any funds
against budgetary appropriations before MF approves the budget which takes
place late in the year, generally between April and June; (c) ORMVAs do not
know in advance how much they will be allocated during the year; and (d) MF
officials responsible for this control ("contr6leurs financiers" at the
central level and the "agents comptables" at the ORMVA level) have excessive
powers; not only must they agree on the award of all submitted contracts, they
may also question any proposed expense even if it is included in the approved
budget.
3.28     Under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, the Government took
measures to streamline its control procedures over ORMVAs, mainly by
increasing threshold amounts of contracts submitted to MARA and MF for review
and plans to establish medium-term contracts ("Contrats-Programmes") with
ORMVAs under which more coherent relations would be established (paras. 5.16
to 5.18). The Project would support implementation of these measures by
strengthening ORMVAs' management procedures, and rationalizing Government and
ORMVAs' planning, monitoring and evaluation capabilities and improving their
relations (paras. 5.14-5.15).
ORMVAs' Financial Situation
3.29     The ORMVAs" financial resources consist of revenues coming primarily
from water charges, from budgetary allocations and, to a lesser extent, from
conuercial service users charges. As a result of inadequate pricing and
recovery policies for water deliveries and commercial services (para. 3.15),
ORMVAs have increasingly depended on Government financial support to subsidize
their operating budgets. This financial support has been a heavy burden on
the Government budget: as much as 40Z of total Government operating subsidies
to public enterprises have been allocated to ORMVAs during the last decade.
In 1983, Government subsidy to balance ORMVAs' operating budget amounted to DR
233 million and to DH 320 million if account is also taken of the operating
expenditures included in their capital budget (mainly energy and part of
maintenance expenses). This latter figure represents DR 875 per irrigated ha
compared to DR 420/per ha in 1977. ORMVAs' financial situation over 1983-85
is summarized below:
ORMVA CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS (1983-1985)
Actual     Estimated   Projected
1983        1984          1985
(DR M)  Z    (DH M)  Z    (DH M)  2
Total Operating Expenses           442  100      461  100      473  100
Total Income
ORMVAs' generated              123   28      161   35      192   40
Government subsidies           319   72      300   65      281   60



- 18 -
ORMVAs' internally generated revenues represented 28Z of total operating
expenditures in 1983 and are estimated to be 402 in 1985. The balance is
provided by Government's annual operating subsidies.
3.30     Specifically, the high dependency of ORMVAs on Government's financial
support stems from three major factors: (a) the low level of water charges
which in 1983 covered only about 80% of actual O&M costs incurred to ORMVAs
(DH 206 million O&M expenses compared to DR 167 million charged to :-.7mers),
but the recent increases in water charges (para. 3.16) are expected to result
in a substantial increase in ORMVAs revenues (para. 6.15); (b) the collection
rate of ORMVAs' arrears, mainly water charges, has been low averaging 43Z in
1983; if all ORMVAs' arrears were fully recovered, Government subsidy would
have been only DH 112 million or 35% of ORMVAs' total operating expenditures
instead of 727 in 1983; (c) the very low contribution of beneficiaries to the
costs incurred to ORMVAs in providing the commercial services: total handling
costs of these services in 1983 have been estimated at about DH 148 million of
which beneficiaries bore only 257; and (d) beneficiaries include farmers but
also the state farms, the communes (for communal infrastructure works) and the
sugar plants. All beneficiaries are allowed to benefit from any of the ORMVA
subsidized services, even those which are well equipped to have access to the
services available in the market. The Project would help improve ORMVAs'
financial situation and autonomy by introducing measures designed to
facilitate the objective of increasing water charge collection rates and users
charges of commercial services before their full transfer to the private and
cooperative sectors (paras. 6.13-6.14).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement and
Proiect Objectives
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01     The Project would be in line with Bank strategy in helping Morocco
improve the policy framework and management of the irrigation sub-sector and
the performance of the public sector enterprises responsible for the
construction, operation and maintenance of the LSI schemes. lt would help
implement and complement the reform package agreed upon under the ASAL with
regard to the irrigation sub-sector (para. 3.07) and contribute to furthering
sectoral policy objectives and promoting institutional development- In
addition, it would help introduce new technologies and approaches in ORMVAs'
management and activities.
4.02     The Bank has played an active role in promoti1 g the irrigation
sub-sector in Morocco. It has financed five projects in the LSI sub-sector
(para. 2.07), providing for the construction of new schemes with the
objectives of supporting Government policy of expanding irrigation,
strengthening ORMVAs and improving the irrigation cost recovery policy. As
highlighted in the performance audit reports of the completed projects, the
Bank has generally succeeded in meeting these objectives, but more needs to be
done to improve O&M and institutional development. Through the Project, the
Bank would help the Government implement recent policy shift towards a more
efficient use of existing resources by encouraging a concentration of efforts



- 19 -
on the rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of existing schemes. The
Project would also be aimed at improving the ORMVAs' operational efficiency,
financial performance and reduce the burden they impose on the Government
budget. In addition, it would implement measures to increase crop production
through more efficient extension and applied research.
Project Objectives
4.03     The Project's overall objective would be to provide for greater
efficiency in the use of the existing resources and improved management and
financial performance in the nine large scale irrigation schemes covering
400,000 ha managed by the nine ORMVAs listed in para. 3.02. The Project also
aims at furthering the disengagement of the ORMVAs from providing services to
farmers that are better provided by the private sector. Specifically, the
Project aims at: (a) improving efficiency of use of developed water resources
through selected improvement works to increase on-farm water availability by
some 25% in the schemes covering 150,000 ha to be improved under the Project;
(b) improving operation and maintenance conditions in all LSI schemes in order
to avoid repeated investments for their rehabilitation; (c) inducing crop and
livestock production increases by increasing on-farm irrigation water; this is
expected to result in an increase of cropping intensity in the sub-project
areas from 113Z at present to 135% at full development (para. 6.02); (d)
improving ORMVAs' organization and management efficiency; (e) transferring the
commercial services currently provided by ORMVAs to the private and the
cooperative sEztors; (f) increasing their financial independence and thus
reducing the need for Government budgetary support; and (g) helping the
Government continue to improve cost recovery in the irrigation sub-sector.
B. Summary Project Deseription
4.04     To achieve its objectives, the Project would implement, over a six
year period, the following actions-
(a) An Investment Component, including:
- rehabilitation or upgrading of existing irrigation infrastructure
serving a total area of about 150,000 ha;
- improvement of O&M work over all the 400,000 ha LSI schemes
through multi-year contracts with specialized firms for major
complex maintenance works and purchase of minimum O&M equipment
including earthmoving vehicles, safety stock and
radio-telecommunication equipment; and
- purchase of electronic data processing equipment, vehicles and
construction of houses for key O&M staff;
(b)   A Technical Assistance, Training and Support Action Component,
including:
- technical assistance for management support and studies; and
- training of ORMVA staff mainly O&M staff, electromechanics, and
accountants, and other Government staff in charge of monitoring
and evaluating ORMVAs' operations;



- 20 -
(c)   An Institutional and Policy Reform Component which would provide for
-  improving the operational and management efficiency of ORMVAs,
their relations with the Government and their financial
situation;
- improving recovery of water and service users charges and
transferring commercial services to the private and cooperative
sectors where feasible;
- increasing farmers' participation in O&M;
- helping resolve problems caused by the water rights and
collectively-owned land situation in the LSI areas;
- revising cropping patterns in the LSI areas; and
(d)   On-farm Investments.
C. Detailed Features
Investment Component
Improvement Works
4.05      The project would provide for priority investments for
rehabilitating or upgrading existing irrigation, drainage and road schemes
mainly concentrated in 13 sub-projects affecting about 150,000 ha in eight of
the nine ORMVAs. They would include the following:
4.06      In the Doukkala ORMVA, two sub-projects would be implemented:  (a)
the Boulaouane Sub-project, including rehabilitation and upgrading of the
irrigation distribution network in the Boulaouane sector (1,100 ha) by
replacing the pumping station automatic control and water regulation systems,
and installing new electric transformers and water hydrants equipped with flow
and pressure-control systems; and (b) the Doukkala Canal Sub-project including
(i) rehabilitation and upgrading works to improve the discharge capacity of
the Imfout concrete tunnel (diameter = 5.3 m; length = 17 km), the upstream
section of the headreach canal serving the 52,700 ha Doukkala scheme; (ii)
desiltation, rehabilitation of the banks, and installation of automatic
water-control equipment of the same canal over 60 km downstream of the Imfout
tunnel. In addition, scattered works would be implemented, including: (a)
desiltation and repair of structures along the primary and secondary drainage
ditches over about 230 km; and (b) repair or replacement of water control
equipment and structures throughout the Doukkala surface irrigation schemes.
4.07      In Gharb ORMVA two sub-projects would be implemented (a) the
Sebou-Beht sub-project including: (a) construction of a 21 km unlined feeder
canal served by a pumping station of 9 m3/s capacity and a 11 m head
installed on the Sebou river to ensure irrigation of the Gharb P7 and P8
sectors (10,140 ha) which is currently inadequately provided through the Beht
river at the expense of adequate irrigation of the Beht irrigation sectors
(see map in Annex 3); (b) the Beht Rehabilitation sub-project including
replacement of about 96 km of old secondary and tertiary canals covering 3,175



- 21 -
ha in the Beht sector, as well as the corresponding hydromechanical equipment
and the construction of a drainage system ali over the area, land levelling
over about 1,400 ha and the rehabilitation of about 26 km of feeder roads. In
addition, the Project would provide for the rehabilitation of about 275 km of
existing gravelled and earthen roads throughout the whole Gharb perimeter,
damaged by lack of preventive maintenance in an area of high winter rainfall;
the average cost per km being DH 28,000.
4.08      In the Haouz ORMVA, the Tessaout sub-project would be implemented.
It would include upgrading of an existing irrigation network over 4,050 ha in
the Tessaout-Amont perimeter by constructing concrete-lined canals and
elevated semi-circular pre-cast canals over about 38 km of existing main and
secondary earthen canals and equipping them with adjustable flow distribution
modules and farm outlets.
4.09      In the Loukkos perimeter, construction of about 38.3 km of paved
roads in the Rmel area, with a width of 4 m on 20.3 km and 5 m on 17.9 km to
improve transportation of produce, mainly sugar cane, to the plants, the
average cost per km being DH 41,500.
4.10      In the Moulouya ORMVA, two sub-projects would be implemented:  (a)
the Pumping Station sub-project including the construction of a pumping
station on the Moulouya river, downstream of the Mohamed V dam to compensate
for water deficits in the 50,300 ha Moulouya area as a result of the increase
in water requirements for domestic and industriai use in the Moulouya area and
the siltation of the reservoir which provides water for agriculture as well as
industrial and domestic uses. The station would have a capacity of about 4
m3/s and a total dynamic head of 86 m and would supply water upstream of the
existing main right bank canal; (b) the Madagh/Shouihya sub-project including
(i) the rehabilitation of the surface irigation system of the Madagh sector
covering about 610 ha by replacing the elevated pre-cast tertiary canals and
their hydromechanical equipment; and (ii) the construction of a new tertiary
canal network in the 2,000 ha Shouihya sector currently served with only
secondary canals. In addition, the Project would finance the rehabilitation
of Bank sections of the existing Garet concrete-lined trapezoidal to protect
them from erosion and the rehabilitation of road sections totalling 84 km. the
average cost per km being DH 33,000.
4.11      In the Ouarzazate ORMVA , three sub-projects would be implemented:
(a) the Ouarzazate sub-project including the rehabilitation of the Ouarzazate
surface irrigation system covering about 1,140 ha by repairing the existing
concrete diversion weir, repairing 20 km of deteriorated primary, secondary
and tertiary lined canals and lining the existing traditional earthen canals;
(b) the Idelsane sub-project including the upgrading of the pumping station
serving the Idelsane 384 ha area by installing 15 km of 22 kV power supply
lines and related transformer and electrical equipment and replacing the
existing diesel-powered pumps with electrically-driven pumps with a total
capacity of 780 kW. This would avoid the present frequent interruptions of
pumping due to the problems faced :n the provision of fuel; and (c) the
Timadline sub-project including the upgrading of the irrigation system in the
340 ha Timadline area by lining the existing primary and secondary earthen
canals, opening main feeder unpaved roads and equipping an existing tubewell
for pumping in order to supplement water during summer. In addition, the
Project would include the protection of an area of about 1,080 ha in the Draa
Valley against sanding by fixing key sections of existing dunes, and the
provision of hydrological equipment required for scheduling water distribution.



- 22 -
4.12      In the Souss-Massa ORMVA, the Souss sub-project, would be
implemented. It would include the establishment of a safety stock of 15
tubewell submerged pumping sets and 12 repumping sets and purchase of water
meters and related equipment to insure flexibility in the use of the existing
tubewells serving the 6,100 ha Souss area. This back-up equipment would
permit a continuation of water delivery while carrying out the repairs,
whenever necessary.
4.13      In the Tadla ORMVA, the Beni-Moussa sub-project would be
implemented. It would include (a) construction and equipping of about 91 km
precast elevated semi-circular canals in different sectors in Beni-Moussa,
totalling about 10,000 ha; the irrigation network in these sectors includes
only secondary canals and farms are irrigated through earthen canals where
water losses are high; and (b) repair of priority sections of the banks of the
Beni-Moussa main canal over about 10 km. In addition, the Project would
include gravelling of road sections totalling about 58 km, with an average
width of 4 m and a gravel depth of 0.30 m to improve traffic for
transportation of produce mainly sugar beet, the average cost per km being DH
195,000.
4.14      In the Tafilalet ORMVA, the Tubewell sub-project would be
implemented. It would include the equipping of 14 tubewells with pumping
facilities and construction of a surface irrigation network over a total of
about 250 ha. In addition. sections of the network of the plain of Tafilalet
would be desilted and about 7,000 ha of land in the same plain would be
protected by fixing existing dunes.
-&M Equipment and Maintenance Contracts
4.15      The Project would provide for the purchase of equipment and
maintenance contracts to help ORMVAs improve operation and maintenance of the
LSI schemes under their control. The facilities existing in ORMVAs and in the
surrounding cities are adequate for maintaining the o&M. equipment to be
purchased under the Project. The investments for each area are presented in
the detailed cost estimates in Annex 12. They would include: (a) the
purchase of essential specialized maintenance equipment (excavators, graders,
cranes, compactors, mobile w.irkshops, trucks and mechanical tools) to enhance
ORMVAs' capabilitiea for preventive maintenance; (b) multi-annual contracts
(three years) which would be signed between the Doukkala, Gharb, Moulouya and
Souss Massa ORMVAs and specialized enterprises to assist in preventive
maintenance and major repairs of large or complex pumping stations; (c)
installation in the Moulouya, Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa and Tafilalet ORMVAs, of
two-way radio networks between ORMVAs' offices and the main components of the
irrigation systems to improve communications, and speed up repairs, and reduce
water distribution interruptions; (d) expansion of existing facilities in
Gharb to provide for the training of electro-mechanics in charge of O&M of
pumping stations in all the ORMVAs (para. 4.16b); and (e) purchase of vehicles
and construction of houses to O&M staff.
Technical Assistance, Training and Support Action Component
4.16      The Project would finance components which would help improve
management and enhance staff capabilities of ORMVAs and strengthen monitoring
and evaluation functions of their key monitoring bodies. These would include
the following:



- 23 -
(a)   Technical Assistance consisting of 62 man-month short-term experts
and 212 man-month long-term experts to be provided to ORMVAs and the
MARA central departments. The consultant services would be to
assist in establishing operating procedures for operation and
maintenance (96 m.m) (para. 5.08), training in management methods
and training of trainers (32 m.m) (see (b), setting-up revised
procedure for ORMVAs' management including internal management
control, MIS, financial management, cost accounting and related
design of computer software and equipment and training (146 m.m)
(para. 4.14). Details for each ORMVA are in Table 8 and terms of
reference in Annex 11 of the implementation volume.
(b)   Staff Training.  A major program would be set up to train the key
staff in ORMVAs as well as DER engineers or equivalent and Ministry
of Finance financial and accounting officers in charge of monitoring
ORMVAs' operations. It would involve about 1,200 engineers and
engineer assistants (adjoints techniques) aitd agents (agents
techniques) or their equivalent. The Project would provide
technical assistance as required (see (a) and 79 fellowships (165
man-months), equipment, training materials and transport for staff
and trainers. In addition, it would provide for extending existing
facilities in the Gharb ORMVA to serve as a training center of
electromechanics operating the ORMVAs' existing pumping stations.
One major training component will be the management training aimed
at staff with a managerial position (directors, heads of Services,
subdivisional office coordinators and CMV directors) in ORMVAs a^"
in DER. This training would be sponsored by a specialized
Institute.  Another component is the training of trainers to ensure
that ORMVAs efficiently use the knowledge and experience of their
existing qualified personnel to train others. The third component
of the program is the training in specialized technical fields
primarily in extension and electromechanics.  Before the training
facilities in Gharb are constructed, training of electromechanics
will be provided by a specialized institute for two years. Staff
training regarding data processing, MIS and financial and accounting
would be provided by the consultants who will carry out the
corresponding studies financed by the Project. Details on the
design of the training component are in Annex 10 of the
implementation volume.
(c)   Studies.  The Project would include studies for (i)  updating the
cropping patterns in all ORMVA areas (para. 5.24); (ii)
identifying, evaluating and recommending measures to improve the
role of farmer cooperatives (except those established under the
agrarian reform law) and provincial chambers of agriculture in the
ORMVA areas; (iii) setting up data processing programs; (iv)
auditing the accounts of six ORMVAs (para. 5.06); (v) identifying
and evaluating the impact of the disposal of effluents from sugar
processing plants operating in the ORMVA perimeters on the
environment and the sources and spread of bilharzia within these
perimeters; and (vi) remaining Project engineering studies (on
improvement of automatic control of water pumping and distribution
in Boulaouane in Doukkala, water automatic control of the Doukkala
and the Haouz main canals, and upgrading of the feeder roads in
Tadla). Terms of reference are in Annex 11;



- 24 -
(d)   Electronic Data Processing (EDP) Equipment.  The Project would
provide for the installation of EDP equipment in all ORMVAs except
at Gharb where a successful pilot scheme has already been
completed. This would include the design and the setting up of
computer operating procedures, staff training, and the purchase of
mini-computers and micro-computers. The mini-computers would be
placed at the ORMVA headquarters and the micro-computers at the
field level. They would help support gathering and processing data
regarding financial and cost accounting, budgeting, water charge
billing, contract monitoring, inventory, vehicle and personnel
management, procurement of goods, land use, crop and livestock
yields and production, and documentation. Details on the ORMVA
computerization program are in Annex 4.
Institutional and Policy Reform Component
4.17      The main features of the Project institutional and policy component
are:
(a)   Improvement of ORMVAs' Organization and Management.  A number of
institutional measures would be introduced to improve ORMVAs'
organization and management: (i) O&M services would be created
where they are currently missing and the existing "bureaux
techniques des irrigations" would take on the added responsibility
of planning, monitoring and evaluating O&M activities; (ii) general
planning departments would be established in Ouarzazate and
Tafilalet; (iii) extension organization and field operations would
be reorganized to better satisfy the farmers' needs and formal links
between extension and research would be established; (iv) commercial
services would be gradually t ansferred to the private sector and
cooperatives; and (v) new standardized systems for management
information would be established through the introduction of cost
accounting and of an internal system for performance control, the
introduction of an input-.c1.tput monitoring system; and the
restructuring of budgetary procedures; by increasing their water
charge revenues ORMVAs would ensure a satisfactory level of
maintenance (details are in paras. 5.07 to 5.15).
(b)   ORMVAs-Government Relations.  Under the Project each ORMVA would
prepare detailed three-year development plans (plans d'entreprise).
These plans wculd mainly define ORNVAs' medium-term objectives and
operating targets and would be a basis for the preparation of
program-contracts (contrats-programme) that would be introduced
first for the ORMVA of Doukkala before being adopted for the other
ORMVAs (details are in paras. 5.16 to 5.18);
(c)   Farmers' Participation in O&M.  Under the Project, farmers would be
encouraged to take increased responsibility for O&M of the irrigated
schemes. Measures would be taken to promote the establishment of
water users' associations in the project areas where the tradition
of farmers' cooperatives in the use of irrigation facilities has
already existed for some time and to conduct a test in the areas
where such a cooperation has not yet existed (details in paras.
5.19-5.20);



- 25 -
(d) Collective-Owned Land. The Project would initiate steps towards
resolving the problems resulting from the collective ownership of
the lands in the LSI areas. These would apply to the Gharb
collectively-owned lands where this problem is most acute (details
in paras. 5.21-5.22);
(e) Cropping Patterns. Under the Project, measures would be taken to
revise the cropping patterns set up for each ORMVA and to ensure
their subsequent regular revision (details in paras. 5.23 and 5.24);
and
(f)   Cost Recovery.  Under the Project, an action plan would be designed
to achieve the objective of improving the overall recovery of water
charges to 90% in 1989 compared to 431 in 1983 (details in paras.
6.11 to 6.14).
On-Farm Investments
4.18      As a result of rehabilitation works carried out under the Project,
farmers are expected to increase on-farm investments to take advantage of the
increased water resources available. Major investments would be in livestock;
i.e., the purchase through credit of about 4,600 pure-bred in-calf-heifers and
construction of stables for about 9,300 cows.
D. Status of Project Preparalion
4.19      Status of Engineering.  Detailed designs and bidding documents for
Project works have been completed with the exception of the Doukkala main
canal and Ouarzazate works which are expected to be completed by the end of
1985 and those for the Doukkala pumping station and drainage system and for
the Tadla road upgrading which are expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.
Table 9 presents the list of all major project engineering studies with their
status of preparation and the likely date for their completion. Houses,
vehicles and O&M and safety stock equipment included in the Project are
standard items for which designs and tender documents exist. Designs for
specialized equipment such as the data processing and radio-communication
equipment would be carried out with the help of the consultants during project
implementation.
4.20      Status of Preparation of Non-Engineering Components.  The nine
ORMVAs have capable managers and key staff in place to carry out the Project
adequately. They have successfully conducted larger scale investment programs
than those proposed under the Project. No additional staff are needed to
start project implementation. Existing facilities are adequate to initiate
the Project. Draft terms of reference and job description have been prepared
for the maj'r technical assistance and training components requiring
consultant services. These are presented in Annex 11 of the implementation
volume. Necessary actions have also been taken to ensure the start of the
Doukkala Program contract (PC) in 1987. A draft of this PC was prepared
during project preparation. It is expected to be signed before the end of
1986. The major adjustments proposed with regard to the Project institutional
and policy reforms are described in the letter the Government submitted to the



- 26 -
Bank in June 1985 prior to the presentation to the Board of the ASAL. A copy
of the relevant section of this letter is in Annex. All critical preparation
work would be completed in time for the scheduled project start-up in July
1986.
4.21      Schedule of Project Implementation.  The Project would be
implemented over a six year period (July 1986 to June 1992) in accordance with
the implementation schedule shown in the bar chart attached to this itport.
The first year would be primarily devoted to carrying out studies and
technical assistance work, purchasing equipment and vehicles and initiating
the institutional and policy reforms; corresponding expenditures would be
relatively low and can easily be covered by Government budget even if the
present financial constraints continue. Preparatijn of detailed terms of
reference and letters of invitation for the Project technical assistance and
studies is expected to be completed by June 1986. In addition to the
conpletion of the remaining detailed engineering studies, first contracts for
the following items would be awarded before the end of 1986: purchase of
vehicles, O&M equipment, technical assistance, maintenance contracts and
organization, management and development studies. Studies on MIS would be
completed in the Doukkala ORMVA by the end of 1987, in the Loukkos, Gharb and
Tadla ORMVAs by mid-1988, and in the others by mid-1989. Computer equipment
would be introduced in Doukkala by the end of 1987 and in the other ORMVAs by
the end of 1988. Following bidding in 1986, Project improvement works would
start in 1987 and would be completed in 1989 for the Boulaouane component in
Doukkala, the Beht rehabilitation component in Gharb, the road component in
Loukkos, the Madagh component in Moulouya, the Timadline and Idelsane
components in Ouarzazate and the tubewells in Tafilalet, and in 1990-91 for
the other components. The institutional and policy reform component would be
implemented throughout the project period as detailed in chapter V.
E. Cost Estimates
4.22      Total Project costs include (a) the costs of the proposed
investments, technical assistance, training and studies; (b) incremental
operating costs linked to the Project; and (c) incremental on-farm development
costs due to increased agricultural activity induced by the Project. Total
Project costs are estimated at US$92.5 million (DH 925 million) of which it is
estimated that US$43.2 million (DR 432 million) or 47% is in foreign
exchange. Total costs include an estimated US$19.5 million (DH 195 million)
or 21% in taxes and duties. Base costs are estima.ed in December 1985
prices. Physical contingencies have been included at 15% for civil works and
10% for equipment, vehicles, supplies, studies and technical assistance. They
amount to US$7.2 million, or 8% of total Project Costs. Price contingencies
have been calculated on the basis of projected annual price increases I
applied to local and foreign costs including physical contingencies. They
amount to US$19.5 million or 21% of total Project costs. Cost estimates are
presented in detail by component in Table 1 and by ORMVA in Annex 12 and are
summarized as follows:
1/ Annual projected price increases are as follows:
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Local Costs (Z)       10     6     6     6      6     6     6
Foreign costs (X)      7     7     7.5   7.7   7.6   4.5   4.5



- 27 -
PROJECI COST SUtMARY A/
Local  Foreign Total  Local  Foreign Total X Foreign  % Total
Costs  Costs  Costs  Costs  Costs  Costs Exchange  Base Costs
-D4H million -         -   USS million ---
Civil Works              177    111   288    17.7   11.1   28.8          38      43
Equipment and Vehicles    73    103   176       7.3   10.3   17.6        59      27
Maintenance Contracts      7       5    12      0.7    O.S    1.2        44        1
Technical Assistance.
Studies and Training    11      28    39      1.1    2.8    3.9        67       7
On-Farm Investments       31      28    59      3.1    2.8    5.9        47       9
Incremental Recurrent
Costs                   48      36   _        4.8   3.6    8.4         44       la
TOTAL BASE COST'            347    311   658    34.7   31.1   65.8          47     100
Physical Contingencies    39      33    72      3.9    3.3    7.2        46       11
Price Conttngencies      107      Ad   195    10.7    _.    12_5         45      I
GRAND TOTAL h/      493    432   925    49.3   43.2   92.S         142
TOTAL EXCLUDING
ON-FARM INVESThENTS       452    392   844    45.2   39.2   84.4          47      130
svl Discrepancies due to rounding
I/ Including US$ 19.5 million in taxes and duties
1516Epl4
F. Financing
4.23      A Bank Loan of US$46.0 million is proposed to be made to the
Government of Morocco to finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs and about
23% of local costs excluding incremental on-farm investments which would be
financed by beneficiaries (US$2.4 million) and CNCA (US$5.7 million) under
its current lending policies and procedures (interest rates are from 12% for
the medium-term loans and 13% for the long-term loans). Bank financing would
cover an estimated 50% of total project costs. The Government would finance
the balance of total net project costs (US$18.9 million). The Bank Loan
would be for 20 years including a 5-year grace period. The following table
snmmarizes the proposed financing plan for Project costs:



- 28 -
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Percentage of Proiect
Local  Foreign  Total    Net Costs    Foreign Exchange
Costs
(US$ million) ---
World Bank                 6.8    39.2     46.0        63              90
Government                18.9     -       18.9        26               -
Beneficiaries              2.4     -        2.4         3               -
CNCA                       1.7     4.0      5.7         8              10
Net Project Costs    29.8    43.2      73.0       100             100
Taxes and Duties     19.5      -       19.5
Total Project Costs  49.3    43.2      92.5
4.24     The Government would earmark the proceeds of the Loan and its own
financing for the Project to ORMVAs (US$81.8 million) and to the MARA central
departments, including the coordination units, (US$2.6 million). Funds for the
ORMVAs would be earmarked through their respective annual budgets.
US$ million
Executing Agency                    Equivalent
ORMVAs      Doukkala                              10.9
Gharb                                 20.3
Haouz                                  6.0
Loukkos                                4.8
Moulouya                              18.0
Ouarzazate                             4.7
Souss-Massa                            3.8
Tadla                                  8.3
Tafilalet                              5.0
MARA Central Departments                            2.6
TOTAL (excluding financing by
CNCA and beneficiaries)                  84.4
G. Procurement
4.25     Procurement would be carried out by the Project executing agencies
for the goods, works and services included in their respective components, as
described in para. 5.01. Procurement arrangements are described below and
summarized in the following table:



- 29 -
PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods           Total
Project Element                        ICB     LCB     Other       N.A      Cost
Civil Works                             -      36.0      4.5         -       40.5
(23.3)    (1.8)               (25.1)
Equipment and Vehicles                 19.0     4.5      1.1         -       24.6
(12.6)   (2.7)    (0.7)               (16.0)
Maintenance Contracts                   1.6     -        -           -         1.6
(1.3)                                 (1.3)
Technical Assistance, Studies           -       -        5.2         -         5.2
and Training                                          (3.6)                 (3.6)
Incremental Operation Costs             -       -        -          12.5      12.5
On-farm Investments                     -       -        -           8.1       8.1
TOTAL                             20.6    40.5      10.8        20.6     92.5
(13.9)  (26.0)    (6.1)       (_)     (46.0)
a/  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
4.26     Goods.  Contracts for the purchase of Project equipment and vehicles
and for the maintenance of the pumping stations, estimated to coct US$200,000
equivalent or more each and valued at a total of US$20.6 million, would be
awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers of equipment and vehicles
would receive preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the prevailing import
duty, whichever is less. Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to
cost less than US$200,000 equivalent each but not less than $10,000 equivalent
and aggregating not more than US$4.8 million could be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank (para. 4.27). Procurement of miscellaneous supplies costing less
than US$10,000 equivalent each and aggregating no more than US$0.3 million
would be made in small lots on the basis of local shopping with quotations
from at least three suppliers. Automat-:c water control equipment which is of
a proprietary or specialized nature would be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of direct negotiations with the suppliers of such equipment in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided that the
aggregate cost of the contracts to be so awarded would not exceed the
equivalent of US$0.8 million.
4.27     Civil Works.  Contracts for civil works, including irrigation,
drainage and road networks and buildings, other than those mentioned in
para. 4.26, valued at a total of about US$36.0 million would be awarded
through LCB procedures. These arrangements reflect the experience in
completed and on-going Bank-financed projects in Morocco that only very large



- 30 -
contracts for civil works (generally more than uS$10 million each) can attract
foreign contractors who have no Moroccan office, due to the competitiveness of
local and foreign contractors established in Morocco and the high mobilization
costs for foreign contractors established outside Morocco. The small size and
the scattered nature of the Project civil works throughout the nine LSI areas
would not be of interest to foreign contractors. The largest civil work
contract would be about US$1.5 million for the construction of the pumping
station in Moulouya.
4.28     Works for the placement of tertiary canals in Tadla (US$1.5 million),
for the rehabilitation of the road systems in Gharb and Moulouya (US$1.4
million), for the system rehabilitation in Tafilalet and for the dune fixation
in Tafilalet and Ouarzazate (US$1.6 million) would be carried out by the
corresponding ORMVAs under force account using equipment partly procured under
the Project through ICB. The average value of individual contract would be
about US$0.2 million. These rehabilitation works are scattered throughout the
perimeters and must be carried out without disrupting irrigation operations so
that force account is the most efficient method of procurement.
4.29     Local competitive bidding procedures to be used under the project are
those used by the Government, with certain modifications to ensure that they
are consistent with the need for economy and efficiency and are acceptable to
the Bank.
4.30     Training, Studies and Technical Assistance.  Contracts for training,
studies and technicaL assistance totalling about US$5.2 million would be
awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.31     Review of Bid Documents and Contracts.  All bidding documents and
awards of contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more for
civil works and US$200,000 or more for goods would require the Bank's prior
approval. This prior approval would also be needed for the bidding documents
and awards of the first two contracts issued by each ORMVA and of all
contracts regarding the automatic water control and data processing equipment,
regardless of their amounts. These arrangments would represent prior review
by the Bank of about 80Z of total estimated value of contracts; the other
contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract
award, in the course of supervision missions.
4.32     Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above
procurement procedures would be followed. The following is the estimated
procurement implementation schedule for the project start-up activities:
(a) the remaining detailed engineering designs (para. 4.19) and tender
documents would be submitted to the Bank for approval one year before
the start of the execution of the corresponding works, studies,
technical assistance or procurement of goods as shown in the project
annual implementation schedule;
(b)  bidding for the first improvement works!' (planned to start in
1/ The list of these works is indicated in the detailed cost estimate in
Annex 12.



- 31 -
1987) would take place in September 1986 and the corresponding
contracts would be signed before March 31, 1987;
(c)  detailed terms of reference and tender documents for the first-year
vehicles, equipment, and maintenance contracts and for the following
technical assistance and studies would be submitted to the Bank for
approval before June 30, 1986: consultants for training for all
ORMVAs, computer use and new management systems for the Doukkala,
Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla, O&M, cropping pattern and sugar crop
development and processing; the corresponding contracts would be
signed before December 31, 1986; terms of reference of the other
technical assistance and studies would be sibmitted to the Bank for
approval before June 30, 1987 and the contracts would be signed
before December 31, 1987;
(d)  the draft contractual agreements to train staff in electromechanics
and to supervise management training would be submitted to the Bank
for review before December 31, 1986 and would be signed before March
31, 1987; and
(e)  for all other project contracts, ORMVAs would go for bidding at least
eight months before the expected date of the start of the
corresponding activities.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Borrower would
furnish to the Bank fox review by September 30 of each year a proposed
procurement (and related financing) plan for the following year.
H. Disbursements
4.33     Disbursement Schedule.  The proposed Bank loan of US$46.0 million has
been estimated to be disbursed over a period of seven fiscal years. Since
actions have been taken to ensure timely disbursements as described below,
this is consistent with the historical disbursement profiles for Bankwide and
EMENA and Moroccan agricultural projects, all of which indicate that full
disbursement generally requires an average of seven to eight years. Bank
loans for the four completed irrigation projects in Morocco (para. 2.07) were
disbursed, on average, in seven years. The main reasons for slightly faster
disbursements than for the completed Moroccan agricultural projects are that
(a) Project investments would be distributed among executing agencies which
have a great implementation capacity; on average, annual Project investments
represent only 28t of the budgetary investments made by ORMVAs during recent
years so that project proposals are well within their current implementation
capacity; and (b) major investments would take place in the first four and
half years of the Project. The expected detailed schedule of disbursements is
given in Table 2 and summarized below:
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Fiscal Year
Disbursements                     1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
-           -- (US$ million) ----------…
Annual                             1.9    4.1    7.7   10.0   10.7    6.5    5.1
Cummulative                        1.9    6.0   13.7   23.7   34.4   40.9   46.0



- 32 -
4.34     Disbursement Procedures.  Disbursement categories, loan amounts
allocated and the share of expenditures to be financed would be as follows:
DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
Amount of the
Categories            Loan Allocated             X of Expenditures
(US$ million)             to be financed
1. Civil Works                            23.0       651 of total expenditures
2. Equipment and Vehicles                 14.5       65% of local expenditures
and 100l of foreign
expenditures
3. Training, Technical Assistance,
Maintenance contracts, and Studies   4.5        100% of total expenditures
4.  Unallocated                            4.0
Total               46.0
4.35     Disbursements for the above items would be made after receipt by the
Bank of full documentation, except for the works done under force account and
services provided under contracts of less than US$100,000 for civil works and
US$50,000 for goods for which disbursements would be made against statements
of expenditures (SOE) certified by the executing agency involved. The agency
would retain the supporting documentation and make it available for
inspection by Bank supervision missions and by external auditors. The total
amount of the loan disbursed under SOE procedures would not be more than
US$5.5 million. Except in cases of direct payments, no reimbursement
applications for less than US$20,000 would be accepted.
4.36     Retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 against payments made for
eligible expenditures before the date of the Loan Agreement but after June 1,
1985, is proposed to cover the costs of the technical assistance necessary to
set up the proposed ORMVAs' management information system, studies and
training and vehicles.
4.37     Revolving Fund.  To improve the efficient and timely implementation
of the Project, the Bank would deposit, after loan effectiveness, a sum of up
to US$2.5 million into a special account established by the Government to be
used as a revolving fund to finance eligible expenditures corresponding to
the Bank's share of the average three-month Project needs. The account would
be maintained in US dollars in the Central Bank of Morocco. Government
counterpart funds would be secured in a timely manner through appropriate
budget allocations.



- 33 -
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND PROPOSED INSTUTIONAL
AND POLICY REFORMS
A. Proiect Organization
Organization for Project Implementation
5.01     The Project would basically be implemented by the ORMVAs in their
respective areas, except for the following: the studies on farmers'
cooperatives and provincial chambers of agriculture, on effluents from sugar
processing plants and on bilharzia, the training of MARA staff in charge of
monitoring and evaluation, and provision of related equipment and vehicles by
MARA and the training of financial controllers of ORMVAs, by Ministry of
Finance. The National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) would provide credit
for financing on-farm investments. Conclusion of an agreement between
Borrower and CNCA regarding provision of credit under this Project would be a
condition of effectiveness.
5.02     The Project includes four components of common interest to all
ORMVAs. These components would provide for (a) training; (b) planning,
management systems and computer use; (c) operation and maintenance; and (d)
cropping patterns. Implementation of these activities needs to be coordinated
among ORMVAs and between the ORMVAs and MARA because they involve sectorial
options that should be approved by MARA. To ensure this coordination, four
coordinating units would be created to execute each component. The training
-ait would be created within the MARA's central Department of Agricultural
Training and Research (DEAR); the unit for planning, management systems and
computer use within the MARA's Department of Planning and Economic Affairs
(DPAE); the unit for operation and maintenance within the MARA's Department of
Rural Construction (DER); and the unit for the cropping patterns within the
MARA's Department of Crop Production (DPV). Staff of each unit would only
include two to three staff who would be seconded from ORMVAs; no new
recruitment is foreseen. The specific tasks of the units would be to prepare
tender documents and to plan and monitor implementation of the common
components and to coordinate work undertaken by ORMVAs with respect *o the
mentioned four common components. Output of units would be submitteu to the
national project coordination committee which would ensure their review by the
MARA central departments concerned. The creation of the four units would be a
condition of Loan Effectiveness.
Organization for Project Coordination
5.03     The multisectorial nature of the project requires effective
coordination between the various entities involved. Overall coordination of
project implementation and institutional development would be carried out at
the national level by a National Project Coordination Committee which was
created in November 1985. This committee would monitor progress in project
implementation and institutional and policy reforms, review work programs and
progress, resolve problems involving different Government departments, review
ORMVAs' medium-term development plans and program contracts (para. 5.17), and
recommend any additional measures to improve ORMVAs' management, performance
and financial situation. This committee would meet as necessary but at least
every six months. It is chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and includes
ORMVAs' directors, the MARA's central directors and representatives of the
Ministries of Finance, Interior, Equipment, Commerce and Industries and
Economic Affairs. Since the MARA's Rural Construction Department (DER) would



- 34 -
be involved in the largest part of project activities, it has assumed the
Secretariat of the Project Coordination Committee. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that this Committee would be maintained with membership
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
5.04     The DER would be responsible for overall monitoring of Proj.ct
implementation, including its physical, institutiinal and policy components.
It would act on behalf of MARA in dealing w: .h other Ministries to discuss
and activate measures necessary for implementing the Project proposed reforms
and ensure that decisions are taken on time. It would be responsible for
monitoring preparation by the ORMVAs of semi-annual progress reports and
synthetizing them in an overall report to be submitted to the Bank. In
addition, MARA's department for Economic Affairs (DPAE) would prepare annual
reports to be submitted to the Bank on the implementation of ORMVAs'
medium-term development plans and the program contracts. DER would also
coordinate preparation by ORMVAs and DPAE of a project completion report
within six months of the loan closing date. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that DER would be responsible for semi-annual progress reports
and that DPAE would be responsible for annual reports on ORMVAs' development
plans and program contracts.
5.05     Because of the heavy emphasis of the Project on institutional and
policy reforms, the Moroccan Government and the Bank would carry out a
mid-term review of the Project implementation before June 30, 1989, three
years after the Project's start. This would involve reviewing the physical
implementation of the Project and the progress accomplished in meeting its
institutional and policy objectives. As an input to this review, DER would
prepare, on behalf of MARA and in agreement with the Ministries of Finance
and Interior, an overall report on progress, issues and recommendations based
on ORMVAs' reports. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Accounts and Audit
5.06     To prepare for a shift from the present a priori financial control,
external audits of the Project and ORMVA accounts by independent auditors
would be introduced under the Project.  The policy of the Government under
the ASAL is that the accounts of the Doukkala, Tadla, Moulouya, Souss-Massz,
Tafilalet and Ouarzazate ORMVAs are to be audited by private firms and those
of Loukkos, Gharb and Haouz ORMVAs are to be audited by auditors from
Ministry of Finance. This decision has been made on the grounds that
Ministry of Finance does not have enough staff to do all the audit work
needed. The audits would give an opinion and provide a report on the
veracity, accuracy and fairness of the presentation of the ORMVA annual
financial statements. This opinion would help establish the credibility of
the financial statements. The Project would finance the private audits wrhich
would start in 1987, the first Project fiscal year of the Borrower. The
annual budgetary resources provided for carrying out the Project would be
separately identified in the annual budget law (loi des finances).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) the Borrower would
maintain separate Project accounts; (b) each ORMVA would maintain accounts to
reflect its financial condition; (c) these accounts would be audited by



- 35 -
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (d) ORMVAs' annual financial
statements would be audited by the independent auditors and (e) all the
auditors' reports would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year.
B. ORMVAs' Restructurin!
ORMVAs' Organization
5.07     General Organization.  Under the Project, the ORMVAs' organization
would be adjusted to strengthen planning, monitoring and evaluation
functions, improve management tools and increase the efficiency of field
operations, mainly with regard to operation and maintenance, extension and
applied research. The new structure would be well suited to the functions
expected to be assumed by the ORMVAs in the rainfed areas in the future
(para. 3.24). In order to facilitate adoption of these wider
responsibilities, certain basic principles would be adopted: (a) creation of
all units included in the present project; in particular, work units
reporting to the Director General of each ORMVA would be established to deal
with functions that should be strengthened: management control, monitoring
and evaluation, training and computer use; (b) ORMVA operations would be
decentralized by transfer of increased staff to the field to make the field
offices fully responsible for executing programs designed at the headquarters
level; (c) concentration of ORMVA's responsibilities at the headquarters
level on planning, studies, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and
management functions; (d) keeping the staff currently assigned to the CMVs
dealing with irrigaticn; this would not prevent ORMVAs from assigning
momentarily some of the staff to undertake specific missions in the rainfed
areas; (e) separation at the CMV level of staff dealing with technical work
from staff dealing with administrative work; (f) assignment at the field
subdivision level of a qualified enginee- (or equivalent) who would
coordinate all ORMVA wor-n undertaken by -he subdivisional offices and the
CMVs they control; and (g) crop production and livestock extension services
would be integrated at the central as well as at the field level. The new
ORMVAs' structures, the new organization chart and the ministerial orders
governing this reorganization along the lines presented above would be issued
before Loan Effectiveness. Assurances were obtained that planning
departments would be established and staffed in Ouarzazate and Tafilalet by
December 31, ;986.
5.08     Organization and Funding of Operation and Maintenance.  The existing
"bureaux techniques des irrigations" in each ORMVA would take on the added
responsib_lity of planning, monitoring and evaluating ORMVAs' and farmers'
performance in water use and system operation and maintenance. Specifically,
this would include the establishment, with the help of technical assistance,
of operating procedures and work programs for preventive maintenance of
irrigation, drainage and road networks as well as operation of pumping
stations of water distribution scheduling in all ORMVAs, and of operation of
irrigation networks in the southern ORMVAs of Tafilalet and Ouarzazate where
O&M needs major improvements. In addition, operation and maintenance
services would be established and adequately staffed in Ouarzazate and



- 36 -
Tafilalet ORMVAs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the "bureaux
techniques des irrigations" would take on the above mentioned
responsibilities and that the O&M services would be established in Ouarzazate
Tafilalet before December 31, 1986. Furthe-more, in order to ensure
continued O&M operations in the future, assura. v-  were obtained at
negotiations that the Borrower would ensure that -ach ORMVA would at all
times operate and maintain its irrigation system and promptly make all
necessary repairs and renewals of the system, all in accordance with sound
engineering and agricultural practices.
5.09     Organization of Extension Services.  To rationalize extension
services (para. 3.11), ORMVAs would introduce a systematic structure, based
on a tightly monitored field visit system and regular training of extension
staff. Detailed aspects governing this reorganization are in Annex 9 of the
Implementation Volume. On the organizational side, the structure of each
ORMVA would be modified to (a) include a full service exclusively in charge
of extension at the headquarters level. This Service would set up an
agricultural extension system modeled on the T&V system including a group of
subject-matter specialists (SMS); in most cases, no new recruitments are
needed because SMS teams can be staffed by ORMVA technicians who are
currently scattered through different services; and (b) assign an extension
coordinator at each field Subdivision-' to monitor extension staff in the
CMVs concerned and assign or promote one or several extension agents to
coordinate and supervise extension work at the CMV level. These reforms
would be consistent with the recommendation of the National Plan for the
reform of extension services, now under preparation by the Government (para.
3.11).
5.10     On the operational side, extension work would be reorganized by
separating technical activities from commercial activities and, to the extent
possible, from administrative tasks to which the extension agents would
devote only one day per week at the CMV. They would visit farmers' groups
and farmers, at regular intervals (twice a month), on specific days known in
advance by fanrers and the supervisors of the agents. Each year, they would
attend about two-week training sessions in specific subjects related to crop
production and livestock, comninications techniques, work organization and
extension methods. In addition, they would attend one to two-day monthly
briefing sessions (including refresher courses adapted to the needs of the
cropping season). These sessions would be conducted in the field by the
subdivision coordinators and SMS; the problems encountered and the activities
planned for the following months would be discussed and analyzed. While the
livestock health control and genetic improvement activities would be dealt
with by the veterinary services, extension with regard to animal hus;iandry,
(feeding, stabling and forage production) would be carried out by extension
agents after special training and integration of existing livestock extension
agents into the unified extension service. The existing milk collection
cooperatives would be used as channels for communicating livestock extension
messages to farmers. These organizational arrangements would be taken into
consideration during ORMVAs' reorganization (para. 5.07). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the new extension framework be put into
1/ One field subdivision controls several CMVs.



- 37 -
place in each ORMVA not later than June 30, 1987, i.e. before the project's
second cropping season and that adequate staffing levels (i.e. ratio of
extension agent to farmers of about 1/160) be reached in at least one
subdivision in each ORMVA by June 30, 1988. The timetable for completion of
staffing in the remainder of the ORMVA areas would be established at the time
of the mid-review, based on the experience with the first subdivisions.
Agreement was reached during negotiations on the above principles to be
adopted in reorganizing the extension services.
5.11     To improve the coordination with research (para. 3.12), the Project
would provide for formal links between extension and research so that
research can be better applied to obtaining solutions to farming problems and
improve feedback from farmers. To this end, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Borrower would: (a) furnish to the Bank before June
30, 1987 a three year research program prepared by each ORMVA, which would
define research priorities for irrigation and responsibilities for execution
and financing of this program; and (b) ensure that a protocol would be signed
between appropriate research organizations and each Office before December
31, 1987 for implementing this program starting in 1988. The protocols would
provide for clear subdivision of responsibilities between appropriate
organizations and ORMVAs in research work; this would at least result in
transferring all basic research activities carried out by ORMVAs to the
research organizations. On the basis of preliminary analysis, the
medium-term programs would include priority research themes in relation with
(a) production and use of irrigated forage crops as fodder for pure-bred milk
cows, expansion of high yielding cereals, on farm irrigation techniques, and
improved farming packages for maize and soybean, for all irrigated areas; and
(b) pest control of cotton plantations in Tadla, on-farm irrigation of
cereals in Gharb located in a medium-rainfall zone where farmers are
generally reluctant to irrigate cereals and rely on rain, control of palm
date tree "bayoud" diseases in Ouarzazate and Tafilalet, improved cropping
techniques for irrigated sunflower in Gharb and adaptation of King's Ruby
vineyards in Haouz.
ORMVAs' Commercial Services
5.12     As part of the reorganization of the ORMVAs introduced under the
Project, the ORMVAs would start to divest the commercial services they
provide to farmers (para. 3.25). This divestiture would be done gradually in
order to avoid any risk of declines in crop production in the area
concerned. Satisfactory alternative delivery mechanisms exist in the areas
close to the large cities or where farmers have reached satisfactory level of
crop intensification, but they would be most difficult to develop in
Ouarzazate and Tafilalet which are remote, far south of the Atlas mountains.
A MARA circular has been issued in order to:
(a)  enable the ORMVAs of Doukkala, Gharb, Haouz, Loulckos, Moulouya,
Souss-Massa and Moulouya to transfer, over a three-year period,
input services (other than those provided for agricultural extension
purposes) to the private sector or the farmer cooperatives. In
order to encourage private sector initiative, ORMVAs would be
allowed to rent their warehouses to the new suppliers who would act
on a contractual basis with ORMVAs at the beginning; and



- 38 -
(b) instruct the same ORMVAs to cease, over a three-year period,
commercial services which have limited impact on production and in
which the private sector has been increasingly involved; these would
mainly include farm machinery services, animal breeding, poultry
production, veterinary services (other than prophylactic) and
management of cooperatives which are more than five years old. The
ORMVAs of Gharb and Loukkos would cease their farm machinery
services within a five-year period.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would furnish to
the Bank by August 31, 1986 a program of measures prepared by each of these
ORMVAs to facilitate divestiture by the ORMVAs of various commercial
sources. The measures would include preparation and conclusion of
arrangements between the Ministry of Commerce and Industry on behalf of the
sugar processing plants and MARA on behalf of ORMVAs to provide for a full
disengagement of ORMVAs, over a three-year period, depending on the ORMVAs,
from the commercial services that they provide *o support the sugar
production. The objective would be for the ORMVAs to keep extension
activities related to sugar production but no longer to borrow credit from
CNCA on behalf of the sugar growers, manage farmers' accounts, or control
sugar harvesting operations. In order not to jeopardize cost recovery, under
these new arrangements ORMVAs will be paid directly by the sugar plants for
the water (or other) charges owed by farmers.
ORMVAs' Management
5.13     Under the Project, a comprehensive set of measures would be taken to
improve ORMVAs' management. These would involve the introduction of a
management information system (MIS) in addition to the strengthening of the
planning activities (para. 5.17), the adoption of external audit (para.
5.06); and the introduction of systematic staff training (para. 4.16).
Necessary changes would be designed by the ORMVAs with the help of technical
assistance provided under the Project.
5.14     Management Information Systems.  New standardized systems for
management information would be established in all ORMVAs based on the
findings and the recommendations that would be formulated by the consultants
hired to this effect under the Project. Detailed aspects and terms of
reference for consultants governing these systems are presented in Annexes 3
and 5. The introduction of the management information system (MIS) would be
based on the following:
(a) restructuring of the ORMVAs' accounting system including the
definition and the introduction of standard financial accounting
procedures and a standard cost accounting system to determine the
real cost of services and monitor efficiency throughout the
enterprise;
(b) the introduction of an internal system of performance control based
on specific indicators to monitor activities and efficiency and to
achieve accountability at all levels in the entity;



- 39 -
(c) the restructuring of budgetary procedures separating (i) public
services (extension, work supervision, general studies) for which
ORMVAs would receive full compensation from Government; (ii)
irrigation activities for which Government and ORMVAs would
determine, through the Offices' respective negotiated budgets, the
(declining) annual subsidies to be provided by Government; and (iii)
commercial services whose costs would gradually be fully borne by
the beneficiaries and for which ORMVAs would ultimately not incur
any operating subsidies. Annual operating subsidies would therefore
be negotiated, activity specific and not be transferable between
activities, with targets established for internally generated funds
and operating cost coverage; and
(d) the introduction of an input-output monitoring system (IOMS) to
periodically monitor and evaluate on one hand availability of
inputs, credit and farmers' reactions regarding the adoption of
modern agricultural techniques, application of the recommended
inputs, and the use of labor and on the other hand the cropping
patterns, the cropping intensity and farmers' incomes in comparison
with the targets established under the present project.
5.15     The new management information systems would be gradually introduced
starting with a pilot system to be launched by the ORMVA of Doukkala where
the first program-contract will be drawn up (para. 5.18), of Tadla which
controls the largest irrigated area in the country and of Gharb and Loukkos
which have already introduced computer equipment. This would involve the
following program: (a) in a first phase, the necessary organizational changes
would be included. This would take place at the same time ORMVAs are
reorganized (para. 5.07); (b) in a second phase, new standard management
principles and procedures would be fully designed in the four mentioned
ORMVAs in 1987 and implemented by June 30, 1988. During this phase,
technical assistance provided under the Project would help dasign and start
up the system, train the ORMVA staff concerned and advise on the appropriate
data processing equipment required for all ORMVAs taking into account the
approved new management systems; and (c) in a third phase, the new MIS would
be introduced in the remaining five ORMVAs by June 30, 1990. Because the
systems would have already been defined and tested in four ORMVAs,
considerable economies of scale would be possible. The detailed timetable of
this program is presented in Annex 3. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (a) the timetable indicated above would be followed; and
(b) the Borrower would authorize by December 31, 1987 the application of the
principles and procedures required to implement the systems.
C. ORMVAs-Government Relations
5.16     Relations between Government and ORMVAs would be rationalized
through the adoption of program contracts (PC) whicu would first be
implemented on a test basis with the Doukkala ORMVA starting in 1987, and
then expanded to all the ORMVAs. This system would lead to a greater
autonomy of ORMVAs combined with a more rationalized role of Government in
orienting, planning, monitoring and evaluating ORMVAs' activities. The PC



- 40 -
would set forth (a) ORMVAs' programs of works, development targets, and
operating and finanring performance goals based on specific indicators agreed
upon in the contracts; and (b) methods of financlal and administrative
controls to be exErcised by the Government with respect to staffing,
institutional and pricing matters as well as financial commitment objectives
based on projected investment programs and operating revenues. For its
success, the PC system would need to be supported by a good MIS incorporating
an appropriate cost accuunting system which woutld be introduced under the
Project (para. 5.14). At the Government level. MARA's DPAE would monitor the
implementation of the PC and prepare consolidated reports based on annual
progress reports prepared by ORMVAs (para. 5.04). The report would analyze
ORMVAs' performance and achievements compared to the targets of the contracts
and recommend appropriate measures. The contracts would be subject to
systematic annual review based on previous year performance and new
circumstances. This review would be done by the National Project
Coordination Committee (para 5.03) to which the DPAE's consolidated annual
report would be submitted. Detailed aspects on the program-contracts are
Annex 2.
5.17     The preparation of the PC would be based on detailed three-year
development programs (plans d'entreprise) that ali ORMVAs would prepare,
covering 1987-1990 for Doukkala and 1989-1991 for Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla
and 1990-1992 for the others. The plans would identify the ORMVAs'
objectives in terms of investments, field activities (water distributed,
farmers contacted, assistance activities to promote production, etc.), its
targets in setting up new management related systems (MIS, accounting, etc.),
and management productivity. They would also indicate the necpssary
man-power and financial requirements and the anticipated sour.. -  of
financing. All ORMVAs are capable of preparing these plans with no external
technical assistance.
5.18     Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the PC with the
Doukkala ORMVA would be signed by December 31, 1986. It would be implemented
over the 1987-1990 period and include two phases: a one-year preliminary
phase during which the new management systems would be designed and tested
and a three-year operational phase during which PC actions would be
implemented. Assurances were also obtained that draft PCs for the Gharb,
Loukkos and Tadla ORMVAs (covering 1989-91) would be signed by the end of
1988; and draft PCs of the remaining ORMVAs (covering 1990-92) would be
signed by the end of 1989.
D. Farmers' Participation in O&M
5.19     Under the Project, farmers would be encouraged to take increased
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes.
This has been successfully tested under the Bank financed Small and
Medium-Scale Irrigation Project (Ln. 2253-MOR) under which water users'
associations were established during the first year of implementation. The
Project would have two approaches: one for the Haouz, Ouarzazate and
Tafilalet areas involving farmers with a long tradition of irrigation and one
for the othe: areas. In the Haouz, Ouarzazate and Tafilalet areas,



- 41 -
irrigation has been practiced for centuries - long before the Government
constructed the new modern irrigation systems in the early 1970's. Farmers
are already grouped by tribal and family origins in sections served by the
same canals and cooperation has existed among them for distributing water and
maintaining the irrigation systems. Since the new systems were constructed,
this cooperation has somewhat declined as farmers have tended to increasingly
rely on Government to operate and maintain the systems and to resolve any
conflict which may arise among them. The Project would aim at rebuilding the
cooperative spirit in these older schemes to improve the efficiency of O&M
through increased farmer participation. In the other irrigated perimeters,
such a cooperation does not exist and pilot actions are now needed to
determine how to better provide for increased farmer participation.
5.20     Under the Project, it is envisaged that water users' associations
would be established by the end of 1987 to cover all the tertiary canals
rehabilitated under the Project in Ouarzazate, Tafilalet and Haouz. In the
other ORMVAs, the formation of water users' a--sociations is envisaged in two
stages: (a) trials would be conducted in Tadla to establish water users
associations in charge of operation and maintenance of the tertiary sections
of the irrigation networks in one full "subdivision" by the end of 1987; and
(b) if the Tadla experience proves worth expanding, measures would be taken
to establish associations in one full "subdivision" in each ORMVA by the end
of 1989. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower w.uld
submit to the Bank for review before December 31, 1986 for the first four
ORMVAs and December 31, 1988 for the others, action plans prepared by each
ORMVA designed to facilitate creation of water users groups in line with this
timetable and that the Borrower and the ORMVAs would take all action to carry
out these plans, taking into account the Bank's views. A revised law
governing the creation and functioning of the water users associations is
expected to be issued by the end of 1985 as foreseen under the Small and
Medium-Scale Irrigation Project (Ln 2253-MOR).
E. Collective-Owned Lands
5.21     The Project would initiate steps toward resolving the problems of
productivity of collectively owned lands in the LSI areas; this is most acute
in the Gharb ORMVA's area. Within the 150,000 ha area to be rehabilitated
under the Project, the area affected by collective ownership is located only
in the Gharb Sebou-Beht sub-project area. It covers 5,600 ha or about 4X.
This area is farmed by farmers whose ownership rights to the land are often
not established and who show little inclination to intensify production and
to operate their part of the irrigation system and are generally reluctant to
pay water charges and land betterment levies.
5.22     The 1969 Agricultural Investment Code provides a mechanism for the
Government to improve productivity of these lands, involving identification
of rights to the land, parcelling, where possible of such land into viable
lots, and distribution of the plots among the individuals whose rights to the
land are established. In the Sebou-Bebt area, this procedure was commenced
and rights to the land were identified. However, the land was never
parcelled or distributed among rightholders. Since that time, many of the
rightholders no longer farm the land and the land is now farmed by



- 42 -
individuals, many of whom have no established rights to the land. A joint
circular has been issued by the Ministers of Agriculture and Interior setting
up a timetable for analyzing the situation in Gharb. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the borrower (a) would ensure that the Gharb
ORMVA would carry out a survey to develop a strategy for increased
productivity of such land; (b) would furnish the conclusions of such survey
and the recommended strategy by September 10, 1986; (c) after an exchange of
views with the Bank would promptly take all actions required to impie.zent
this strategy; and (d) establish by September 30, 1986 a unit jointly chaired
by both Ministers and including the Gharb ORMVA director, to monitor the
application of this strategy and progress made.
F. Cropping Patterns
5.23     As discussed in para. 3.13 above, Government has now recognized the
need to revise cropping patterns. These would now be updated and then
revised as necessary. To provide extension staff with current information on
the technical and economic aspects of alternative crops and crop rotations,
each ORMVA would carry out a separate study to update cropping patterns in
its area. Assu-ances were obtained at negotiations that (a) before
September 1, 1987, ORMVAs would complete the studies for the determination of
new cropping patterns; and (b) after exchange of views with the Bank on the
conclusions of these studies, the borrower would establish not later than
September 30, 1987 and thereafter at least once every three years,
appropriate cropping patterns.
5.24     Central to any assessment of cropping patterns is the role that
sugar beets and cane would play in future land use in the irrigated areas.
The major problem of sugar is the risk of an inefficient allocation of
resources, including land, to sugar production in view of price prospects for
this commodity. Morocco does have resources available to produce sugar
efficiently, but the issue is how much sugar should the country produce
efficiently and in what regions should that production be concentrated. At
present, the Doukkala and Tadla areas have proven to be highly productive and
to have a good resource basis for sugar crop production: together, they
provide 65Z of total national production. In the other three areas (Gharb,
Loukkos, Moulouya) the comparative advantage is less clear since crop yields
are lower and sugar mills operate at an average of 60Z of actual capacity.
In Haouz and Souss-Massa, there is already sufficient evidence that sugar is
not a viable crop. Under the Agricultural Price and Incentive Study being
carried out under Bank supervision, the Government sugar development policy
including the identification of areas of relative comparative advantages will
be reviewed and appropriate recommendations are expected to be formulated
under the second agricultural sector adjustment loan (FY87) to phase out
those areas which prove not to be economical for sugar beet and cane
production. The studies on the new cropping patterns would determine the
most viable alternative crops that would substitute for sugar crops in the
areas where these would be phased out.



- 43 -
VE IMPACT. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Benericiaries
General
6.01     The direct quantifiable benefits of the Project would mainly arise
from: (a) an increase in agricultural and livestock production caused by the
availability of increased water due to the improvement works; the increased
production would improve farm incomes and employment in the LSI schemes; (b)
cost savings through the avoidance of repeated rehabilitation investments, as
a result of more efficient operation and maintenance of irrigation
infrastructures. It has been assumed that while the rehabilitation savings
would apply to all the 400,000 ha controlled by ORMVAs, the production
increase induced by the Project would apply only to the 150,000 ha which
would benefit from the improvement works carried out under the Project; (c)
direct foreign exchange savings; and (d) improved financial situation and
autonomy of the ORMVAs which would have a positive impact on the Government
budget. Non quantifiable benefits would include the impact of the Project on
strengthening the overall efficiency of ORMVAs, and the promotion of the
private sector role in providing commercial services thereby minimizing
management burden on the ORMVAs.
Production Increase
6.02     Production.  Crop and livestock production would increase as a
result of increased water availability and higher distribution and
application efficiency caused by the rehabilitation works provided by the
Project. Water available in the schemes as a result of these works would
increase by 27Z from 990 million m3 at present to 1,250 million m3 (Table
5). The increased amount and security of water supply would enable farmers
to change their cropping patterns, expanding the areas of higher value crops,
increasing their cropping intensity and achieving higher yields. The
calculation of the incremental production resulting from the Project has been
made assuming that, without the Project, production would grow at annual
rates averaging 12. The table below presents production increases expected
to be induced by the Project in the 150,000 ha affected by the improvement
program. Details are presented in Annex 8.
ClaP PUODUCTION   Areax1stina situton    Area   ith leCt  Htfqk Prn1et Mw=nlr 212
Cropped   Yield   Production   Cropped   Yields   Prodution  Production
(e000 ha)  Wtha)   10 m  (ha)  It/ha)    (t00  t)  (t00  t)  (000 ti  tXI
Suar beet    r22.9  52.2  1.196  16.3  63.0  1.32I    1. lf     -168    -1.0
Sugar cae     IA6  s9.7  215      2.3  33.0  las        215      -30    -1.0
Cereals      SZ.9   2.9  156     S2.9  3.5  200         174      .26    .1.o
Ma,ze       5.7    2.4  13.5     6.6  4.S   30         17       .13   .7.e
Cotton        0 .9  1.4    12     2.a  2.5    7          2.5     .4.5  *20.e
Vegetables   32.5  20.5  666     40.7  25.0    1.013    l0      *2203   2.0
citrus       12.6  17.2  217     12.S  20.0  247        247       o     0
Fruit trees   6.9   2.0   14      7.0  3.2   23         17        .6    .3.s
Forages      17.1   S.S/1    (94)/h  40.0  5.7/a   (Z263/h  (is)/h  (111)/h    .10.0
Others (leumes.
barley. ..1.  -L4  2.1    _   5                         631       J   .16.0
TJTAL  157.5      2.481/c  186.4     2.749 /r   Z.6"4/C   *(5
Equipped Aroa  149.0     149.0
Cropping IntemstyZ9 1132  13S5
milk                       7.5               13.0        9.2        . +.9S
ea mat                    3.S                 T.0        4.3     .3.7  *.85
IS16E.p27
la With proJect production cuwered to without project Production
/h In million forage units
7 lxecluding forages
/d  Total are  croed and harvested douring the year to the area equipd for irrigation
/Z  In thousand frorae units



- 44 -
6.03     Production at full development, compared with the current situation
shows the following changes (a) the total cropped area would increase by 182;
(b) a decrease in cropping of sugar beet and cane to the benefit of higher
value crops mainly vegetables, forages for milk production and cotton; (c) the
elimination of barley which generally characterizes cropping conditions in low
rainfed areas, while the wheat area would remain unchanged; (d) yields would
increase for all crops and would reach levels which are already being attained
by progressive farmers in most irrigated areas; increase in yields would range
from 20S for sugar beet, vegetable and citrus trees to about 80X for cotton
and maize; and (e) the largest increases in production would be for cotton,
mainly grown in Tadla (an area highly suitable for cotton which currently
provides 80% of total domestic production) and forage crops which would help
reach the 1401 increase projected for milk production. At full development,
the value of annial incremental production (in 1985 financial prices)
generated by the Project is estimated at DH 374 million of which DH 298
million for crop production and DH 76 million for livestock production. This
would repre3ent an increase of 261 and 113Z respectively over the increases
that are projected without the Project.
6.04     Marketing.  The projected incremental production generated by the
Project would be readily absorbed by the domestic market. Projections of
national supply and demand indicate a long-term continuation of Morocco's
current deficit in the basic agricultural commodities that would be produced
in the Project area except for citrus for which production is not expected to
change as a result of the Project. Production of sugar beet and sugar cane is
expected to decrease in the subproject areas to the benefit of higher value
crops. Based on past trends and projected income and population growth in
Morocco, domestic demand for fruit and vegetables is projected to outstrip
supply. The Project's incremental vegetable production (202,000 t or a growth
of about 21 p.a.) would be readily absorbed by domestic demand. Past trends in
domestic fruit production, other thar, citrus, suggest that local demand will
also increase faster than domestic production. The relatively small
incremental increase in cereal production (26,100 tons) and in fruit
production (5,700 tons) would be absorbed without problem by the domestic
market. The incremental production of maize, cotton, soy bean would help
substitute for imports of these commodities which are expected to increase in
the future.
6.05     Prices.  At present, fruit, vegetable and meat prices are not
regulated and the profitability of production geared to local markets is
high. Producer prices for cereals, sugar crops and milk are fixed or
supported by the Government. While prices of inputs and outputs are currently
set at levels which encourage production in the irrigated areas, farming in
these areas would also remain profitable with the application of border
prices. Government prices and incentives policies are currently under
discussion between the Government and the Bank in the context of the ASAL
(para. 2.05).
Rehabilitation Cost Savings
6.06     By increasing funds devoted to O&M through increased ORMVA revenues
from better collection of water charges (para. 6.12) and improvements in O&M
planning, organization and equiment (para. 5.08). the Project would improve



- 45 -
ORMVAs' ability to properly maintain existing irrigation infrastructure and
hence avoid repeated investments for early rehabilitation. At present, on
average, irrigation sy4stems which are not adequately maintained have to be
rehabilitated at least once every 18 years, whereas a properly maintained
network can last 30 to 40 years without rehabilitation. The average
rehabilitation cost in Morocco is about DH 16,000 per ha. At a 12% discount
rate, tuie net present value (NPV) of two rehabilitations, one in year 18 and
one in year 36 is 2,350 DH/ha. The cost of adequate maintenance is estimated
at about 24S DH/ha/year on average instead of 160 DR/ha/year currently
allocated for maintenance of the LSI schemes. The NPV of the incremental
funds necessary to ensure proper maintenance of the system is DH 690 DH/ha (at
12% discount rate), only 30% of the rehabilitation costs. It is estimated
that the NPV of rehabilitation cost savings achievable in the LSI areas
through adequate maintenance, discounted at 12% over Project life, would
amount to about DH 663 million.
Farm Incomes and Poverty Alleviation
6.07     The Project would directly benefit about 46,500 farm families (or
about 256,000 people) in the LSI subproject areas where the schemes would be
improved. It would indirectly benefit the surrounding populations through
upstream and downstream activities linked to Project improvement works and
crop and livestock production. Employment on the benefitting farms would
increase by about 3.5 million man-days per year at full development, which is
equivalent to the creation of 14,000 full-time on-farm jobs. About 80% of
this would be hired labor and 20% would be additional family labor.
6.08     To quantify the financial costs and benefits of the Project to the
47,000 beneficiary farmers, 13 farm models representing the main farm sizes
and farming systems i. the subproject areas have been prepared based on
surveys on land holdings and cropping patterns and information on production
potential, land use capability, and farming technologies. The characteristics
of the farm models and farm incomes are summarized in the table below and
presented in detail in Annex 13.



- 46 -
FARM MODELS AND INCOMES
Before   Full Development Income ('000 DH)
ORMVAs   Sub-Project           Farm   Project  Without   With         Incremental
Area (ha) Income   Project  Project         Income
('OOODH)                     Total    Per ha
Doukkala    Boulaouane          5        44.6     46.8      62.9    16.0      3.2
Doukkala Canal      1.5     11.2      12.3     13.8    1.5       1.0
Gharb       Sebou-Beth          2.4       7.7      8.5      17.3     8.8      3.7
Rehabil. Beth       9.0     59.0      65.0     95.8    30.8      3.4
Haouz       Tessaout            0.8       2.8      3.1       5.1     2.0      2.5
5.8     15.7      17.3     37.7    20.4      3.5
Moulouya    Pumping Station    9.35    45.3       55.3      88.0    32.7      3.5
Madagh/Shouihya    2.5      24.7      27.8     37.8    10.3      4.1
Ouarzazate  Idelsane            1.0       1.6      1.8       7.7     5.9      5.9
Ouarzazate          1.35     3.8      4.2      13.0      8.8     6.5
Timadline           1.5      -         -       12.1    12.1      8.1
Souss-Massa Souss               5.0      15.3     16.8      25.3    8.5       1.7
Tadla       Beni-Moussa         1.9       8.5      9.4      18.9    9.5       5.0
8.2     34.0      37.4     71.4    34.0      4.1
Tafilalet   Tubewells           0.5       2.8      3.1       8.1     5.0    10.0
6.09     The analysis of the distribution of benefits based on the farm models
shows an increase in annual farm incomes as a result of the Project ranging
from DH 1,500 in the case of the small farm in Doukkala (1.5 ha) to DH 32,700
in the Moulouya large farm (9 ha). The specific impact of the Project on
rural poverty is shown in the following table which indicates that at present
some 60S of the 46,500 project farmers are below the rural poverty level
(defined as 30X of GNP/capita) whereas at full development with the project,
this percentage will have declined to only 8Z. The number of farm families
expected to be raised above the poverty level by the project is about 24,000.
The farmers remaining below the rural poverty level would be in some
traditional small farms in Tafilalet, Ouarzazate and Haouz's schemes.



- 47 -
CHANGE IN INCOME PER CAPITA
Without Proiect              With Proiect
Farm Families     Area       Farm Families       Area
No.     2      ha.    2      No.     t       ha.    X
Below rural poverty /a
level(US$240)           27,350  (60)  42,450  (28)   3,425   (8)  3,130    (2)
Above rural poverty
level                   19,150  (40) 106,550  (72)  43.075  (92) 145,870  (98)
TOTAL         46,500 (100) 149,000 (100)  46,500 (100) 149,000 (100)
/a  Rural Poverty level for Morocco is defined as 30% of GNP/capita.
Direct Foreign Exchange Savings
6.10     The Project would contribute to increasing the foreign exchange
earnings. Incremental exports of cotton due to the Project would be about
US$9.8 million at full development. Incremental production of wheat, corn,
milk and beef would decrease annual imports by US$16.8 million, but decline in
sugar beet and sugar cane output would cause an increase of annual sugar
imports valued at US$8.2 million. The overall annual foreign exchange savings
due to the Project would be about US$18.4 million at full development (in 1985
prices).
B. Finanea Impact
Cost Recovery and ORMVAs' Financial Improvement
6.11     Measures taken under the Project would greatly improve the financial
autonomy of ORMVAs and reduce the Government budgetary support to ORNVAs.
These measures include: improving O&M cost recovery mainly by improving water
charge collection performance; introducing user charges to gradually recover
the full cost of commercial services by the ORMVAs, while transferring those
for which private sector and cooperatives are ready. The financial impact of
these measures on ORMVAs' financial situation and on Government's budget is
presented in paras. 6.15 and 6.16.



- 48 -
6.12     O&M Cost Recovery Improvements.  An action plan would be implemented
under the Project to support further improvements in irrigation cost recovery
(para. 6.13-6.14). The aim of the action plan would be to improve the overall
recovery of water charges to 90S in 1989 compared to 431 in 1983. The yearly
recovery rates for each ORMVA would _e as follows:
FIVE-YEAR WATER CHARGE RECOVERY PROGRAM
(Recovery Rate %) Ia
ORMVA/b                Actual Achievement        Projected Minimum Achievement
l181  1982  1983  1984 /c   1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
- Moulouya        56    35    51    50         55    60    70    80    90
-Gharb            23    37    43    40         45    50    60    70    75
- Doukkala       100   100   100   100        100   100   100   100   100
-Haouz            92    15    31    50         55    65    75    85    90
-Tadla            34    43    38    40         55    65    75    85    95
- Souss-Massa    38    36    12    15          35    45    70    80    85
Loukkos        27    68    82    80          85    85    90    90    95
TOTAL               37    47    413   AL          57    64    l     83    2
/a  Amount actually recovered in the year as a percentage of amount legally
due for recovery in the year, including past arrears.
lb In two other ORMVAs of Ouarzazate and Tafilalet, a legal basis for
recovery is yet to be developed.
/c Estimated level.
6.13     A joint circular signed by the Ministers of Agriculture, Finance and
Tnterior was issued in November 1985, instructing the provincial governors as
president of the ORMVA regional committees (para. 3.21) to support the ORMVAs'
efforts at water charge recovery and take actions to ensure satisfactory
progress. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would:
(a) establish, before December 31, 1986, adequately staffed recovery
units in Haouz and Souss-Massa, the only ORMVAs where such units are
still lacking;
(b) maintain an overall system of water charges and betterment taxes to
be collected on account of water distributed by the ORMVAs for
agricultural purposes at levels sufficient to recover full O&M costs
of the ORMVAs' irrigation systems and a portion of their capital
costs, as provided in the Moroccan irrigation cost recovery
legislation; and to this end: (i) furnish to the Bank by
December 31, 1989 a proposed schedule of water charges in Moulouya
adjusted to take into account the O&M and investment costs of the



- 49 -
pumping station to be constructed under the Project, and thereafter
promptly establish such water charges, (ii) by December 31, 1986 take
all action required on its part to determine and ensure the prompt
collection of water charges and betterment taxes owed to the Haouz
ORMVA by all irrigation system beneficiaries in Tessaout-Amont;
(c) revise all water charges by September 30 of each year commencing
September 1986 in accordance with the established indexation formula
so as to take into account changing price levels;
(d) carry out studies to develop an appropriate system of water charges
to be established and collected on account of water distributed by
the ORMVAs for non-agricultural purposes, furnish to the Bank by
December 31, 1987 the results of these studies together with a
schedule of such charges and thereafter take all action required on
its part to establish such charges; and (f) the annual statement of
recovery of arrears for each ORMVA would be made available by the
Government not later than June 30 of each year, starting in 1987.
6.14     Users Charges for Commercial Services.  To improve the ORMVAs'
financial position, user charges payable to ORMVAs for hand'ing the commercial
services before they are transferred to the private and coope.ative sectors
have been recently increased to reflect:  (a) a 91 mark-up on the value L' of
all inputs distributed (instead of the previous 2-3X); (b) a 81 margin on the
value of the works they design and supervise for the account of the communes;
and (c) full cost of farm machinery and other livestock-related commercial
services. However, since ORMVAs' costs in providing these services are high
compared to the private sector for an equal quality of service, the first goal
of ORMVAs is to tightly control and reduce their running costs in order to
align them with those of the private sector. Establishing full costing of
commercial services requires, however, establishing an efficient MIS within
ORMVAs to determine the real cost of services; this would be achieved for all
ORMVAs by the end of 1990.
Impact of the Proiect on ORMVAs' Financial Situation
6.15     The measures under the Project on cost recovery for ORMVA's services
and irrigation water, along with efficiency gains in the delivery of those
services in the irrigated areas would have a highly beneficial impact on the
ORMVA's financial situation, and redu;ce Government subsidies.  The major
impact would come from the expected increase in water charge collection rates
from 471 in 1984 to 90% in 1990 (and 931 in 1994). Action on improved
collection of water charges and cost recovery for services would provide for
increased revenues, but this would be offset significantly by increased levels
of expenditure on maintenance (maintenance expenditures expected to increase
by about 501 - see para. 3.09). Despite the increased expenditures on
maintenance, the incremental cash flow of the ORMVAs due to the project would
however, still remain highly positive i.e. for all the ORMVAs an estimated
1/ Representing the purchasing price by ORMVAs including transportation costs
to their warehouses.



- 50 -
DH 42.3 million in 1986 rising to DH 45.6 million in 1990 (constant 1984
Dirhams). Since the level of maintenance expenditures would stabilize after
1990, the incremental cash flow position would improve significantly beyond
1990 reaching an estimated DH 88.5 million by 1994 (1984 DR).  Over the
1986-1994 period, the cumulative incremental cash flow would amount to DH 496
million, or DH 810 million in current terms. By 1994, five ORMVAs out of nine
covering 801 of the irrigated areas (Doukkala, Gharb, Moulouya, Tadla,
Souss-Massa) would have passed beyond breakeven point in charging for  *rvices
rendered, i.e., the volume of water distributed and cost recovery levels at
which revenues cover fixed and variable costs will have been met or exceeded.
This objective would not yet be met on the remaining part of the irrigated
arees be.-use of the problem of traditional water rights referred to in para.
3.18 and the high cost of water pump lifting in Loukkos. Overall, ORMVAs'
cumu!3tive cash flows for water distribution and commercial activities over
198f-94 would go from a total deficit of DH 231.2 million without the Project
to a total positive cash flow of DH 264.7 million with the project (1984
prices). Cash flow projections are summarized in the table which follows and
details are in Annex 6.
PROJECT IMPACT ON ORMVAs  FINAMCIAL SITUATION La
(In constant 1984 DH million)
---------------ORMVA's CASH FLOWS /l ----------------    Increased Revenue
Actu.'1 Prolections Without Proiect Pro1ections With Prolect  due to Proiect
1984     1986    1990    1994     1986   1990   1994    1986   1990   1994
PYl    PYS    PY9     PYl    PYS    PYg
Ooukkala               0        6.2      7.3    (1.1)    12.1    9.2    9.6      5.9    1.9   10.7
Gharb                 (37.8)   (37.9)  (10.9)    2.6    (29.4) (10.3)  15.2      8.5    0.6   12.6
Haouz                 (27.1)   (25.2)  (18.1)  (18.2)   (23.1) (13.6)  (9.7)    2.1    4.5    8.5
Loukkas              (26.4)   (14.6)  (11.6)  (13.2)   (10.4)  (9.5)  (10.6)    4.2    2.1    2.6
moulouya              (11.9)    2.9    15.7    24.0       7.5   17.5   25.2      4.6    1.8    1.2
Souss-Massa          (37.7)   (35.1)  (16.7)   (1.7)   (30.5)  (1.3)  33.9       4.6   15.4   35.6
Tadla                LZA41   (12.       ZI.     31.      (0.4L   4L2    Kal    ILA   19.3   I.
TOTAL            (163.3)  (116.5)  (10.8)   23.9    (74.2)  34.8  112.4    42.3   45.6   88.5
Cumulative cash flows    -    (116.5)  (292.6) (231.2)   (74.2) (70.6) 264.7     -      -      -
Cumulative revenue
(1984 prices)        -        -        -                               -      42.3  222.0  495.9
Cumulative revenue
(current prices) /r    -       -       -       -        -      -       -      52.1  309.5  809.9
1516E. p.39
/a Public service expenditures such as extension. experimentation and general studies not included;
parentheses indicate negative cash flows.
/l  Balance (positive or negattve) between the flow in and out of ORMVA's operating accounts.
/r Inflation rate:  12 in 1985; 10 in 1986: 62 in 1987 and thereafter.
Impact of the Project on Government Budget
6.16      Inflows to Government due to the Project would accrue from import
duties on equipment, other taxes and loan disbLrsements.  Outflows for the
Government include project costs, debt service on the Bank loan, and subsidies



- 51 -
on incremental farm inputs consumed. ORMVA's increased revenues due to the
Project (para. 6.15) would also provide for a saving on the Government Budget
because of the gradual elimination of Government subsidies to the ORMVAs for
the provision of services. After the investment phase (1986-90) during which
the Government budget would accumulate deficit of DH 27.5 million, the Project
will have a positive impact on Government's finances from 1991 onwards, with
net annual surpluses ranging (in 1990 prices) from DH 11.4 million in 1991 to
DR 120.0 million in 2005 (year 20 of the Project). The average annual surplus
would amount to about DH 64.8 million in 1990 prices during this period. the
Government project related cash flows are shown in Table 6.
C. EnvironmenW Impact
6.17     The Project would contribute to reducing the risk of
schistomosomiasis transmission in the areas where irrigation schemes will be
improved, by intercepting current surface water losses through the
rehabilitated irrigation and drainage schemes, thus avoiding water
stagnations. Among the surface irrigation areas, the Tadla perimeter
(covering 30%) has been determined to be a high risk area for bilharzia but
this disease is currently being worked on by the Ministry of Public Health.
The Ministry set up a national bilharzia control program in 1980 and
established control units in all the high risk areas including in Tadla to
carry out regular campaigns to detect any colonies of vector snails and
surveys of the incidence of bilharzia among the human population. These units
are generally staffed with qualified medical personnel and are equipped to
control the disease. No such efforts have been made to evaluate and control
the risks of contamination of wells used for drinking water by river
overspills during floods (especially in Gharb) or the risks of pollution
caused by the effluents of the sugar processing plants (in Doukkala, Gharb,
Ioukkos, Moulouya and Tadla). Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that Borrower would conduct, before December 31, 1987, in consultation with
the ORMVAs, a study designed to identify and evaluate the environmental impact
of disposal of such effluents from plants and the sources and spread of
bilharzia in the LSI perimeters.
D. Economic Analysis
6.18     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the Project is estimated
at 26%; the Net Present Value (NPV), at the opportunity cost of capital of
12%, is estimated at DR 1,263 million. They have been calculated taking into
account both the expected incremental production benefits in the sub-project
improved areas (para. 6.02) and rehabilitation cost savings throughout the
whole Project area (para. 6.06). The ERRs for the thirteen sub-projects range
from 14.7% to 42.6%; they are presented in the following table together with
their Net Present values.



- 52 -
SUB-PROJECT ECONOMI'  JUSTIFICATION
Economic        Net
Area of    Rate of        Present
ORMVA                                Influence    Return       Values !a
Sub-projects           (ha '000)       (%)        (DH million)
Doukkala     Boulaouane                 1.1         19.5            5.0
Doukkala Canal           52.7         38.7          185.1
Gharb        Sebou Beht                10.1         34.3           76.4
Beht Rehab.               3.2         15.1            8.4
Haouz        Tessaout                   4.0         19.9           12.3
Moulouya     Pumping Station            2.6         42.6           36.7
Madagh/Shouihya          57.7         37.1          233.6
Ouarzazate   Idelsane                   0.4         20.8            3.2
Ouarzazate                0.7         17.3            8.7
Timadline                 0.3         14.7            2.8
Souss-Massa  Souss                      6.1         21.1            7.7
Tadla        Beni-Moussa               10.0         34.2           50.7
Tafilalet    Tubewells                  0.2         16.1            5.1
TOTAL      149.1
a/ At 12 over the Project life (30 years)
6.19     Project Life, Construction Period, and Benefit Build-up Period.  The
overall life of the Project is assumed to be 30 years. The economic life
considered for the project canals, drains, hydromechanical equipment, other
equipment and vehicles is estimated at 40, L0, 15, 12 and 5 years
respectively. All works would be performed in five and a half years,
according to the Project construction schedule detailed in Annex 12 and
summarized in para. 4.21.  Farmer incremental benefits due to the Project
would start one year following completion of construction works in their
irrigation sectors. All farmers in the sub-project areas are expected to
reach full development in year 12 of the Project. The benefit build-up period
to full development has been assumed to be 8 to 10 years depending on the
sub-project. Based on past experience in completed irrigation projects in
Morocco, the projected benefit build-up is realistic.



- 53 -
6.20     Benefits.  Direct benefits, valued in economic prices, include
(a) the value of the incremental crop and livestock production generated in
the areas of the 13 sub-projects where improvement works would be undertaken
(150,000 ha); and (b) the rehabilitation cost savings resulting fromt the
improved operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems over the total
Project area (400,000 ha). Other direct benefits, such as the incremental
production in the "non-improved" areas resulting from better extension and
research and the energy savings due to improved O&M of the pumping stations,
have not been quantified. The crop and livestock benefits are based on
assumptions regarding production presented in para. 6.02 and aggregated from
the farm models' cash flows before financing. The without-project scenarios
assume that farmers in the sub-project areas would maintain their current
cropping patterns and cropping intensities, but that yields would continue to
grow resulting in benefit growth rates averaging 1Z. The shadow price of
foreign exchange l.2s been taken equal to the current rate of US$1 = DH 10 and
the economic cost of unskilled labor has been estimated at DH 13.4 per day,
which is 802 of the current average, while the economic cost of skilled labor
is equal to its market wage. Benefits deriving from rehabilitation cost
savings correspond to investments that would have to be made without the
Project as a result of inadequate O&M of the systems (para. 6.06).
6.21     Costs.  Investment costs, all valued in economic prices, include
(a) investment and replarem- t costs of all sub-project improvement works
(on 150,000 ha); (b) investments to rehabilitate other infrastructures (road,
drainage and irrigation sections) scattered throughout of the LSI areas; and
(c) investments co improve O&M all over the LSI schemes (400,000 ha) and
ORMVAs' management. All investments to date were treated as sunk costs.
Operating costs include all the necesary recurrent costs required to maintain
improvement investments, at a level adequate to avoid frequent
rehabilitation. All on-farm investments and costs for commercial inputs and
hired and family labor are included in the economic costs. Water and pumping
fees are not charged to the farms for the economic analysis because the costs
of water distribution and pumping are included in the operating costs of the
irrigation works.
6.22     Economic Prices.  Traded commodities have been priced at import or
export parity prices as derived from IBRD commodity forecasts for 1995, in
1985 constant prices, with adjustments made for freight, handling and
processing in Morocco. Non traded commodities have been adjusted by the
relevant conversion factors. Most of financial input and output costs are
lower than the corresponding economic cost indicating the negative effect of
Government intervention. It has been calculated that the economic prices of
civil works and equipment represent 85X and 95% of financial costs,
respectively. Detailed calculations of prices and wages used in the economic
analysis are presented in Annex 14.
E. Risks and Sensitivity Anaysis
6.23     Risks   Sensitivity tests have been carried out to assess the impact
of the following specific major risks which could adversely affect the
economic viability of the Project:



- 54 -
(a) the proposed reorganization of ORMVAs to take over additional
responsibilities in new rainfed areas (para. 5.07) may create
pressure on ORMVA management during a transitional period of about
two years diverting them from focussing on the proposed reforms; in
addition, the innovative design of the Project implying a change in
the operational and financial structure of the ORMVAs may cause
delays in implementing the Project investments;
(b) the divestiture by ORMVAs of input distribution and other commercial
services and the uncertainties in the response of the private sector
could slow down the expected pace of production increases; and
(c) a longer than expected financial crisis in Morocco could prevent the
Government from adequately funding O&M of irrigation infrastructure
for a few years after project completion and thus reduce expected
rehabilitation cost savings.
6.24     The Project has been requested to minimize these risks as far as
possible. The active involvement of ORMVAs, the MARA central departments and
other Ministries as well in the design of the institutional and policy reforms
of the Project, and the initiation of actions under the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan to support these reforms indicate the priority given by the
Government to implement successfully the Project and to limit the risks of
delaying project implementation or slowing down the expected production
benefit build-ups. In addition, in view of the Government decision under the
current Medium-term Adjustment Program to substantially reduce investments in
new irrigation developments, Government is expected to be in a better position
to adequately fund O&M than in the past.
6.25     Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis carried out on the basis
of the preceding adverse risks shows that the resulting ERRs would remain
satisfactory to most of the sub-projects and that the Project remains viable
even in the unlikely event that all the 13 subprojects were affected
simultaneously. The economic viability of the subprojects and of the Project
as a whoLe is more sensitive to changes in benefits that changes in costs.
Switching values show that production benefits and rehabilitation cost savings
would have to fall by 447. to reduce the Project's ERR to the opportunity cost
of capital of 12S. Similarly, total project cost would have to increase by
792 to threaten the economic viability of the Project. In addition, if the
rehabilitation cost savings would be reduced by 50X, then the r.:V would
decline to DH 797 million and the ERR to 23.71. Such adverse changes for
these critical parameters are very unlikely. The results of the sensitivity
analysis are summarized below:



- 55 -
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Investment   Production   Production        Switchina Values
costs       Benefits     Benefits      Production   Investment
ORIVAs        Sub-Project       Base        up 202      Down 20X  Lagoed 2 years    Benefits       Costs
------------------__----_--------- (X) -------------------------------
Doukkala    Bloulaouane         19.5         15.2         14.2         13.4           -27          +36
Doukkala Canal      38.7        30.1         28.1         20.5            -40          +68
Gharb       Sebou-Beht          39.3         25.8         23.9         18.4           -37          +59
Rehab. Beht         1S.1        11.0          10.8         10.6          -13           +15
Haouz       Tessaout            19.9         12.9         11.2         11.4           -18          +22
Moulouya    Pumping Station     37.1         26.8         24.5         18.0           -35          +53
Madagh/Shouihya     42.6        36.8         35.5          28.2           -73         +272
Ouarzazate  Idelsane            20.8         13.2         11.4         11.6           -19          +23
Ouarzazate          27.8        23.0          22.0         18.9          -47           +87
Timadline           17.3        12.9          7.7          12.0          -13           +25
Souss-Hassa Souss               21.1         7.8           3.5          8.9           -13          +14
Tadla       Beni-Moussa         34.2         17.2         12.3         12.0           -20          +25
Tafilalet   Tubewells           16.1         7.4          5.1           8.4           -9           +9
TOTAL PROJECT            ZLB         Z_ Z.Z 71_7                 *a2
1516Ep18
VYI SUMMARY OF RECOMDMENDATIOINS
7.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  the procurement procedures and schedule stated in para. 4.25 to 4.32
would be followed;
(b)  a revolving fund of up to US$2.5 million would be set up (para. 4.37);
(c)  the procedures described in para. 5.02 to 5.04 with regard to
organization for project coordination, implementation and monitoring
would be followed;
(d)  the Borrower and the Bank would carry out a mid-term review of the
Project implementation before June 30, 1989. As an input, DER would
prepare an overall report on progress, issues and recommendations
based on ORMVA5' reports (para. 5.05);
(e) the procedures described in para. 5.06 with regard to the project's
accounts and audits would be followed;



- 56 -
(f) O&M services would be created and adequately staffed in Ouarzazate
and Tafilalet ORMVAs (paras. 5.07, 5.08); adequately staffed recovery
units would be created in Haouz and Souss-Massa (para. 6.13); and the
"bureaux techniques des irrigations" of the O&M services would take
on responsibilities regarding planning, monitoring and evaluating
ORMVAs and farmers' performance in water use and O&M before
December 31, 1986 (para. 5.08);
(g) the new extension system would be in place according to the timetable
described in para. 5.10;
(h) the Borrower would furnish to the Bank in cooperation with research
organization a three-year research program prepared by each ORMVA
before June 30, 1987 and ensure that each ORMVA would sign a protocol
with the selected research organization for its implementation,
before December 31, 1987 (para. 5.11);
(i) the Borrower would authorize the application of the principles and
procedures required to implement the new MIS systems and these would
be operational in the Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla ORMVAs in
1988 and in the others in 1990; (para. 5.15);
(j) the Borrower would ensure that each ORMVA at all times operates and
maintains its irrigation systems in accordance with sound practices
(5.08);
(k) the first program contract (PC) covering 1987-90 would be signed with
the Doukkala ORMVA before December 31, 1986; draft PCs for the Gharb,
Loukkos, and Tadla ORMVAs covering 1989-91 would be signed before the
end of 1988, and draft PCs of the remaining ORMVAs covering 1990-92
would be signed by the end of 1989 (para. 5.18);
(1) the Borrower would submit to the Bank for review before
December 31, 1986, action-plans prepared by ORMVAs for the creation
of water users associations in line with the timetable presented in
para. 5.20;
tm) cropping patterns would be revised before September 30, 1987 and
thereafter at least once every three years (para. 5.23);
(n)  the Borrower would take action to determine water charges in Tessaout
Amont before December 31, 1986; water charges would be revised every
year for each perimeter starting in September 1986 on the basis of
established indexation formulas; water charges would be increased in
Moulouya to take into account the investment and O&M costs of the
pumping station constructed under the Project; the schedule for
adjusted water charges would be submitted to the Bank by
December 31, 1989; and a system of defining new charges for water
allocated for non-agricultural use would be developed by
December 31, 1987 and furnished to the Bank for review (para. 6.13);



- 57 -
(o)  progress in water charge recovery would be reflected in annual
statements of recovery of arrears for each ORMVA, to be made
available not later than June 30 of each year starting in 1987 (para.
6.13);
(p)  the Borrower would furnish to the Bank by August 31, 1986 a program
of measures to facilitate full disengagement of ORMVAs, over a three
to five-year period depending on the ORMVAs, from the commercial
services they provide (para. 5.12(a); and
(q)  the Borrower would conduct, before December 31, 1987, a study on
environmental hazards in the LSI areas (para. 6.17).
7.02     As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Loan, the Government
would (a) establish the four coordinating units (para. 5.02); (b) issue the
final organization chart and ministerial orders governing the reorganization
of ORMVAs (para. 5.07); and (c) conclude an agreement with CNCA on the
latter's provision of credit under the Project (para. 5.01).
7.03     Subject to the above agreements being obtained, the Project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$46.0 million to the Kingdom of Morocco for a
term of 20 years including a five-year grace period. The Project is expected
to be completed by June 30, 1992.



- 58 -
Annex
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MO OCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJEC.
Government Statement of Sector Development Policy
Annex on Irrigation
1.        Irrigation is a subsector of key importance in the development of
Morocco's agriculture. The priority accorded to this subsector by the
Government is reflected in the substantial share of capital expenditure
appropriations allocated to it under the various economic development plans.
This priority rating has enabled the subsector to play fully the role assigned
to it in resource mobilization, increasing of production, export of
agricultural products, promotion of the services and agroindustries sectors,
job creation, raising of rural incomes, and containment of rural
out-migration. This has been facilitated also by the role played by the
Regional Agricultural Development Offices (ORMVAs) in the expansion and
maintenance of water infrastructures, extension services to farmers, and
application of the institutional measures decreed by the Government, the
cornerstone of which is the 1969 Agricultural Investment Code.
2.        Following this period of expansion -  characterized by, for example,
expansion of the large-scale irrigation zones, putting under cultivation of
the equipped lands and strengthening of the ORMVAs - the basic objectives
assigned to the subsector since 1981, the starting year of the current Plan,
comprise essentially continued infrastructure development of the zones
commanded by the dams already in operation and consolidation of the gains made
during previous decades in terms of better utilization of the existing
irrigation potential, better recoupment of costs, and greater participation by
the farmers in management of the networks. In addition, in light of the
recent economic situation and the resulting budget constraints, we have
proceeded to restructure the program of public investment in irrigation.
Thus, investment priority has been accorded to completion of the
infrastructure programs already started; at the same time, larger capital
expenditure appropriations than previously have been reserved for development
of the existing small and medium-scale irrigation schemes (PMH). Concerning
recovery of costs, the Government has raised the water charges and adopted
suitable formulas for indexing them, and has taken a series of measures to
improve their collection. As regards participation by the farmers, the
Government has drafted a law governing the establishment and functioning of
irrigaton associations. Pending enactment of this law, de facto user groups
have been set up in certain irrigation zones.



- 59 -
Annex
Page 2
3.        With the object of pressing forward with these improvements, the
Government proposes to implement a medium-term (1985-89) action program whose
main goals will be: (a) to maintain the priorities decreed and the
restructuring operations decided on under the investment program; (b) to put
increased emphasis on the programs of rehabilitation and management
improvement of the irrigation zones; (c) to improve the work of the government
services in the subsector, particularly the ORMVAs; (d) to introduce greater
flexibility into the Government's supervision of the ORMVAs; te) to pursue the
process of improving the water legislation and increasing the collection of
water charges and self-financing of the ORMVAs; (f) to promote progressive
withdrawal of the ORMVAs; and (g) to ensure charging for the commercial
services they provide while ensuring that this does not reduce the incomes of
the farmers affected below a threshold to be prescribed by the Government.
4.        The major reforms to be implemented under this medium-term action
program are summarized below. Those relating to management of major
irrigation zones are defined in a report, prepared with the help of the World
Bank in December 1984, entitled `Memorandum sur les reformes de gestion de la
grande irrigation" (Memorandum on Management Reforms of Large-Scale Irrigation
Schemes):
(a) With regard to the investment programs, as part of the restructuring
process referred to above, priority will be given to the following,
while pursuing execution of the projects already committed:
Mi) rehabilitation and management improvement of the large-scale
irrigation systems; (ii) renovation of the existing small and
medium-scale water systems to ensure full utilization of the water
and of the land already under irrigation; (iii) traditional small
and medium-scale networks with a low per-hectare irrigation cost,
and infrastructure development of irrigation zones in low-rainfall
areas, where the return on irrigation investments is generally
higher; and (iv) all development schemes yielding the highest
economic return. In addition, measures will be taken to enable the
OMRVAs to ensure proper management and maintenance of the irrigation
networks, particularly those that include wells and pumping stations.
(b) In the case of improvement of the services of the ORMVAs, the
measures will relate particularly to enhanced priority for planning,
monitoring and evaluation, network management, and extension
services, to decentralization of the services, and to improvement of
management systems and tools (cost accounting, management
information system, data processing, and so on).
(c) With regard to Government supervision of the ORMVAs, the principal
measures will concern: (i) institution of a development
program-contract "contrat-programme de developpement" between one of
the Offices and the Government which, if it proves successful, will
be extended to other Offices; (ii) raising of the maximum amounts of
the order vouchers and contracts signed directly by the directors of
the Offices, with periodical review of these amounts in light of the
Offices' organizational performance; (iii) institution of an



- 60 -
Annex
Page 3
annual review of the Offices' accounts by independent auditors; and
(iv) for the operating and capital expenditure budgets, granting of
quarterly globalized subsidies, the total annual amount of which
will be set at the beginning of the fiscal year.
(d) With regard to the collection of water charges and of the debts owed
to the Offices, the Government will extend the setting up of
internal collection units to all of the Offices. These units will
be supported in their work by the Offices' technical committees and
the provincal authorities. To that end each Office will be asked to
draw up an action program for achieving the highest possible
collection rate. Our indicative program of collection of water
charges for the next five years is shown in the appended table.
(e) With regard to water legislation, the principal improvements will
concern the institution of a suitable procedure for automatic
indexing of water charges, for improving collection conditions in
the Gharb and for applying the provisions of the Investment Code
relating to the setting of tariffs for and expropriation of water
rights to the Haouz irrigation zones. In addition, regulations will
be drawn up governing tariff-setting for water for non-agricultural
purposes that passes through the facilities managed by the Offices.
(f) With regard to withdrawal by the Government from services necessary
to be provided under the jurisdiction of the public authorities, the
Government will authorize the ORMVAs to transfer the majority of
these services, in stages, to the private or cooperative sectors;
the object is that the Offices will eventually devote their
attention to the performance of their essential tasks of
infrastructure development, network management and extension.
(g) In parallel with this phased withdrawal, the ORMVAs will exercise
close control of their operating costs and will be authorized to
bill the beneficiaries for the cost price of the commercial services
that they continue to provide pending take-over by third parties,
while taking care to see that farm incomes do not fall below an
acceptable threshold.
(h) The cropping patterns assigned for each irrigation zone will be
reviewed to take account more fully of the prevailing price and
market conditions.
5.        These various measures will have a positive impact on the
Government's finances. It has been estimated that as a result of these
measures most of the ORMVAs will be in a position, by the end of the action
program, to achieve self-financing of their operations budgets for the
irrigation zones and that, in consequence, the balancing subsidies accorded by
the Government will be appreciably reduced.
1816Ep26



- 61 -
TAK I
gm"   LPRAS    8e4mm
Mmm SL om
At Sta?E MU;cta 1 1 S MGM
sunmy A=unt  Or  uo
dh '0001                  fuSS '0001                    3 Total
-----------------------------:----------    Z Foreign   Baa.
Local   Foreign   Total     Local  Foreign Total   Exchang.    Costs
..2 2t:tte.... ....s:.. *..S.. a ..s..... ..... .i ......
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. GENIE CIVIL
1. TERRASSEJIENTS                                          26. 574   23.622   50. 196   2.657   2.362   5. 020        47         8
2. OUTRAGES                                                38. 349   19. 749  5s. 099    3.835   1.975   5. 810        34        9
3. FORAGES                                                     739      583    1.322       74      58      132         44        0
4. LOGENENTS                                                8.079    4. ISO   12. 229     B80     415  I. 223          34        2
5. REFECTION CANAUX - CONDUITES                            15, 423    7. 924   23. 346    1.542   792   2.335          34        4
6. CANAuX - CONDsITES                                      54.465   34.806   89.272    5.447   3.481   8 927           39       14
7. REVETEMENT CANAUX EN TERRE                               12. 162    6.248   18.410    1.216    625   t. 841         34        3
Sub-Total GENIE CIVIL                                         155,791   97.083  252.874  1.579   9.708 25.287            38       3B
S. VOIES COMUNICATION
1. VOIES AlSPNATEES                                        a8.967    7.052   16. olD      897     705   1.602         44         2
2. PISTES  RURALES                                          9.245    4.761   14.006       924     476   1. 401         34        2
St-Total VOlES CEFURNICAESON                                   18.212   11.813   30.024    1.i21   t. 181   3.002         39        5
C. EQUIPENENT ET FOURNITURES
1. LICNES ELECTRIOUES / TRANSFO                             7.141   10.339   17.480       714   1.034   1.748         59         3
2. EQ. ELECTROHECANIQUE                                    20.306   29.400   49.705    2.031   2.940   4.971           59        B
3. EQ. HYORONECANIQUE                                       2.269    3. 285    5.5 53     227     328     555          59        1
4. EQ. TELECOMNHlNDE                                        2.014    2.916    4.930       201     292     493          59        1
5. EQ. ATELIEE                                              2. 683    2.573    5.256      268     257     526          49        1
6. INTORMATIQUE
Equip. inforintique                                      8.42a   14.351   22.779       843   1.435   2.278         63         3
Software                                                   213       383      596       21      38      50         54         0
Sub-Total :IFORMATIOUE                                      8.541   14.734   23.376       864   1.473   2.338          63        4
7. EQUIP. RADIO                                             2.770    2.770    5.540       277     277     554          50        1
B. EQUIP. FORMATION                                          1,495    2.545    4.039      149    254      404          53        1
Sub-Total EQUIPEMENT ET FOURNITURES                            47.317   68.562  115.879    4.732   6.856  11.588          59       18
0. ENGINS LOURDS ENTRETIEN                                     11.525   20.934   32.559    1. 153   2.093   3.256         54        5
E. MARCHE ENTREFIEN ST. POMPAGE                                 7.319    4.622   11.941      732     452   1.194          39        2
F. VERICULES                                                   13.659   13.102   26.761    1. 36   1.310   2.676          49        4
G. PROTECTION CONTRE ENSASLEMENT                                4.517    1.834    6.352      452      183    535          29        1
H. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE . ETUDES ET FORMATION
1. ASSISTANCE                                               3.937   21.858   25. 794      394   2.186   2.579         85        4
2. ETUDES                                                   5.444    5.206   10. 649      544     521   1.065         49         2
3. FORMATION                                                 1,597    1. os    2.613      150     102    261          39         0
Soib-Total ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE . ETUDES ET FORMATION          10.978   28.078   39.e056    1.098   2.808   3.906         72        6
I. ON-FARM INVESTMENTS                                        30. 072   28. 75E   58. 828    3.007   2.876   5.883       49         9
Total INVESTIIENT CObsS                                          299.490  274.783  574.273   29.949  27.478  57.427          48       87
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. on GENIE CIVIL                                                911      45a    1.380       91      47      138         34        0
S. ON EOUIPEMENT HYDRO - AGRICOLE                              1.180      745    1.925      118      75      193         39        0
C. OR ENGINS LOURDS ENTRETIEN                                 10. 390    9.966   20. 356    1.039   997   2.036          49        3
0. ON EQUIPERENT OFFICE                                       2.661    1.315    3.976       266     131     398          33        1
E. ON VEHICULES                                               19.184   12.217   31.401    1.918   1.222   3.140         39         5
F. ON VOIES COMMIUNICATION                                    6.060    1.920    7.980       606     192     798         24         1
G. ENERGIE                                                    6. 697    9.650   I. 546      570     9as   1. 655         60        3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                             47. 084   36.481   83.564    4.708   3.648   8.356         44       13
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             34F.574  311.254  657.838   34. 657  31.126  65.784          47      100
Physical Contingencies                                         38.998   32.882   71.880    3.900   3.2U8   7.188           46       11
Price Contingenies                                             106.853   88 674  195.527   10.568    8.867  19.553         45       30
Total PROJECT COSTS                                               492.424  432.r820  925.245   49. 242  43.282  92.524        47      141
====c== =a=-=== =r===== ======= I=                     ===   =: 19:3.
Demale  31. 198|5  12.32



MR Asian
w MoMum          Im TenumolFM
Totals IrMIudiFg Coniti hp      iss                                       fatal  includiung Cetinpgncels.
88       57        as        59         go       I I      S2      Total      is    57        Go       51       t0        I I     32   total
a..... *35s.a:  sa ....     ..sts   sass:::: St..:.: s...... :5.. 5: ....   ...a...... I...... .3.....  .5..... ...... ...... 3......
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. GENIIE CIVIL
i. TVRS*SSEENCTS                                                          1I. 615   28.1764   II. 600    6. 282   2.212   2. 296   70. 252             1 L211   2. 875   I.1IN      629    221    210   7. 021
2. OUVISGES                                                                 6.405   20. 556   27. Baa   17,046   5.315  5S4l?   55. 960                  640   2.011    2,751l   1.105       532    547   5.5159
2. FORAGES                                                            -       254       60?       487        522                       1.101       -      1         Si       49       12       -       -      110
4. tLOCENENS                                                        231    2.724    S. 341      6.0N2    3.712                        II 1. Sol    23    212      535      600       121       -            1.760
5. REFECTION CARtA   - CONGUITES                                            1.464    8.526    5.162    1.120   2.596   2.690   32. 257             -       46     552       G76      532    260    100   2.236
6. CANAUIX  CONOUIIES                                                 - 11.211    30. 531   35.550   22. 440   7.321              -128. 742        -    . 623   3.984   3.585   2.344        732       -  125874
7. REVETENENT CARAUX ERl TERRE                                        -     2. 635    5.546    10. 602    4.152         -26.56                     -     214      5s5,  1.060        416       -       -   2.651s 
5th-Total GENIE CIVIL                                                  233    56.915   112, 506  161,522   Si. II)  20,445  10.452  213.394          23   5. 69?   II. 211  10.1ISO   LIIII  2.041   1.045  3L 331
B. VOlES COIIAUNICSTION
I. VOIES ASPHALTEES                                                      . 15710    12. 745                    -        -        - 21. 514               577    1. 274                 .               . 7.II
2. PISTIS RURALES                                                             750    J. 952     5.915      S. 311   2.406    1.610   21. 185               is7    III       696      533    241      161   2.1II5
9thb-Total VOlES CONIMUNICATION                                           -     .550    16.20?      6,555    5.23i    2.446    1.690   42.611         .      91     1.1171      lIs     521    241    III   4.210
C. EQUIPENENT IT FOURNITU6ES
I. LIONES ELECTRIQUES / IRANSFO                                             1. 119    7.257    1.211    1. 273        575      910   24.354       .       9i      796      921      3215      as      I    2.425
2. EQ. EtECTRO4IECAuIQOUE                                                   2. II?    4.505   47. IS7   to. 511   4.385   2.214   71. 037                212      450   4.711    1. 057    411       227   7.1I"
3. EQ. HIOI?GHECANIQUE                                                      1.712    2.759       1. 731      867      215      Il5    7.492               III     279       173       57      22      is      743
4. EQ. TELECORMANDE                                                   .                    --              4.742    1. 435     744    1.1223       -        - -               -      424     144      74      so?
5. EQ. AIELIER                                                                634     1.1612    2,466      1.071i   1. 135     559    7.535        -       1       is".    247       tO?     11I      so      791
I. INFORHATIQUE
Equip. Informali 1Qs                                                   I. 487    B.3$17                                           28. 354           1. 141     59ago                                    2.5835
Software                                                           -      220        235       252        10         -                77               11       24       25        9        -go5
5th-Total INFORHATIQUE                                                     19.701     9. 132       252        90                      19. 180      -   1.S71      III        25        1               -    2.15
7. EQUIP. RADIO                                                       -     1.215     4.522       659ao                                7.151              113     453        69                               716
A. EQUIP  FORMATION                                                   -     1.544    2.0ON        936        504        -         -    5.285       -      184     200        94       10       -               25
9th-Total E4UIFENENT El FOURNITURES                                       - 2191 96   32.525    62. 523   21. 120   5.016    4.692  158.855           -   2.9592   3.252    6.252   2. 112    506    469  IS.8US
0. (tWINS LOUROS ENNTEfIEN                                                - 14.065    20.521        4.746    2.540          -        - 42. 414        - 1. 407   2.054         475      254        -       - 4. 248
I. MARCH1 ENTRITIEN IT. POPIPAGE                                          -    3.605     5.318    5.531       f.552         -16I. 142                 -      II       532      554       165       -            1.1614
F. VENICULES                                                         3.5827    5.425      7.282    1. 211    6. 214      657       112   31.717   3ol        543      728      121      Ill      13       Is   3.550
G. PROTECTION C01781 ENSAILEII(NT                                         -        87     1.1 20    2.155I    2.102    2. 170   I. 130   tO. 175      -       I       Ill      217      350     217      I13   1.011
N. ASSISIANCE TECHNIQUE , ElUDES ET TORIIATION
I. ASSISTANCE                                                    1.15a?   16.1514    10.450     2.116      1,131                 -   JI. 614   121   I.1Gal   1. 045       216       173       -       - 3.255
2. ETUDES                                                        2,414    4.571       2.154    2. lOS    1.001                        I - .13,33   246   453      265       Il1      IN        -            1. 353
3. FORHAIIIIN                                                         -    1.450        576       Sol        562        -               . 415             145      as        55       51       -              347
9th-Total ASSISIANCE TECHNIQUE -ETUDES ET FORIIAIION                 3, 747   22.5143     4.010    5.463    4.214           -            50,151    375   2.254   1. 401        546      4239               -   5.016
I. ON-FARM  INVESTHENTS                                                  -       621    8.645    16.5895   21.012  19.871  13.435   50.532            -       62      564    1.690   2.106  1.1171  1.344   5.053
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                  7.504   141.481  219.311  215.092   121.295  53.635  3 1.5S52  500.235   750  14, 541  21.935  21.500   12.1630  5.364  3. 15S  60.023
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ON GENIE CIVIL                                                       -                   57       171       791      522      461    2.337        -        I        6       is       so      53      46      134
S. ONI EGUIFEMENT HY7110 - AGRICOLE                                     -                    -         -     1.065    1.325      640    3.026        -        -        --              107      133     64      304
C. onl ENGINS LouRaDS INTRIAEl  N                                       -     1.441    2.642    6.111S    7.3113   7.1583   4.117  320. 273          -      144      314      III      7.31    715     411    3.027
9. Oil EQUIPEIIENT OFFICE                                               -       241        530     1.151I    1. 425    1. 459    775    5.907al              24       52      its      143     145      75      Sol
E. ONl VE111 ULES                                                      80     1.5187    4.137    9.280    13. 237  11.400   1. 125   41.8538         a      155      484      925    1.324  1. 140    612   4. 614
F. ON VOIES C0JMICA1ION                                                 -        73     1.557    3. 113    23 1415   1.2911         - 10 -                   8 7     156      311      331     122        -     L.0373
Tntal SECU63RtI COSTS                                                       50    4.442    11. 213    19.5$67   34.153  .15.756   17.673  125.015        5      444   1. 121   1.218    3,415  3.616  1.71U   12.502
T0tal PROJECT COSTS                                                      7.54 15.51    3055   23495    16125 is314.3                          2.4        551.0          3072.9    S.I             9004331.2
.33S   833:::.1 sass:a....::s. ....aI.: .a... a......  ....... .                               . as. *i#3 ......  S.... ... 3 a, ..3333.
0samlene  31. IllS   19:31



- 63 -
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan /a
Bank Disbursements
IBRD                Semester                By End                    Cumulative
Fiscal Year           Ending             of Semester   Cumulative   X Disbursed
1987               December 1986              -              -              -
June 1987                 1.9            1.9            4
1988               December 1987              2.0            3.9            8
June 1988                 2.1            6.0           13
1989               December 1988              3.3            9.3           20
June 1989                 4.4           13.7           30
1990               December 1989              5.0           18.7           41
June 1990                 5.0           23.7           52
1991               December 1990              6.0           29.5           64
June 1991                 4.7           34.4           75
1992               December 1991              3.5           37.7           82
June 1992                 3.0           40.9           89
1993               December 1992              3.0           43.5           95
June 1993                 2.1           46.0          100
/a Expected Signing Date
Expected Effectiveness Date
Expected Completion Date
Expected Closing Date
1516Epl9



STAFF APPRAZSAL REPDRT
LARGE SCALE IRR?GAION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
General Festures of Mnrecea LSI  / Pearimters (1963)
DOUKKALA    GHARB       HAOUZ    LOUKKOS   MOULOUYA   OUARZAZATE   SOUSS-MASSA    TADLA    TAFILALET    TOTAL
.guipigd Area  (ha)
Surface Irrigation          26,200    29,900    28,600           -       50,900       22,030            -          97.000       21,000    315,600
Sprinkler Irrigation        2fi.500    6L400 .Of 300          lS90         9 400        -            24,100          -LI _2 700
Total                 52,700    76,300    28,900         15,980    60,300       22,030          24,100       97.000       21,000    393,300
Crcnud ArM  (ha)                62,985    74,700    27,430         15,030    58,490       27,610          20,860       96,000        14,930    395,040
Croanpin gntengitv h/ (X)           131         98        105          95        110          147             95           106           82         1s0
Water LIsA C/
Total (Mn3)                    391        174        176           91        244         104              97          691           62       2,030
Per ha (.3)                  7,400      2,500      6,700       6,800      5,300        4,700 t/       4,600         7,100        3,000       S1500
f arms 
Lan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Number                      21,600      8,190      9,740       2,020      8,585       14,930          3,460        26,020       24,290    119,000
Average area (ha)            2.4        6.0        3.0         6.5         7.6         1.5            6.6           3.7          0.8         3.1
l/ LSI x Large-Scale Irrigation.
h/  Cropping Intensity a Area cropped to area equipped for Irrigation.  The alfalfa area has been doubled
since alfalfa Is harvested In winter and in sumer..
C/  Because of the drought of last years, the amial water use presented Is the highest incurred in each
area since 1981 compared to the area under irrigation in the sme year.
d/ AssumIng an overall efficiency of 0.5 between reservoir and fields.
1516Ep.6



- 65 -                                        Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LABCh SCALE IRRIGATIO INPROVEMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure in the LSI Areas
Size             Area                        Farmers             Average
0RNVA      Range (ha)      (ha)          %           Nb               X        Size (ha)
Dodukka         0 -  S       27 981        53          19 009            88         1.47
5 - 20      11 972         36          2 375            11          8.00
+ 20       5797          11         .2fi8216                    ZL
52 700       100          21 600           100         2.44
Gharb           O - s           572        is           4 290            52         2.04
5 - 20 IA   22 392         46          3 547            44          6.31
+ 20      17 675        .21         -__51              4         50.36
41 819       101           a 188           100         5.96
Others Lb           27' :48
76 300
HA29Z           O -  5       12 076        42           8 093            83         1.49
S - 20      11 565         40          1 537            16          7.52
+ 20       5 259        --t            108             1        &..  5
28 900       100           9 738           100         2.97
Loukkos         0 -  5          715         5             453            22         1.58
0 - 20 Lc    9251          71          1 518            75          6.09
0 + 20       3 104        -a              47           1           6f.04
Others Li             13 070       100           2 018          100          6.48
3830
15 900
fDulouma        0 -  5       11 72i3       18           5 850            68         2.00
5 - 20      20 479         31          2 190            26          9.35
+ 20      23 09.       .51            -MA              6        60a.a4
65 300       100           8 584           100         7.60
DuarKazaet      0 -  5       14 492        66          13 708            92         1.06
5 - 20       7538          34          1 219             8          6.18
+ 20         -           _                             -
22 030       100          14 927           100         1.48
Souss-m ssa     0 -  5        7 663        32           2 635            72         2.91
5 - 20       7824          32            792            22          9.88
+ 20       A-i C13                    2.Z              i4 f
24 100       100           3 662           100         6.62
Tadla           0 -  5       41 472        43          21 842            84         1.90
5 - 20      30 315         31          3 658            14          8.29
+ 20      25_21          21           .521           __          4.39
97 000       100          26 021           100         3.73
Taf11alet       0 -  5       18 560        88          23 795            98         0.78
5 - 20       2440          12            488             2          5.00
+ 20      .              - 
21 000       100          24 283           100         0.84
ALL ORVAs       0 -  5      143 384        38          99 675            84          1.44
0 - 20     130 776         35         17 324            14          7.99
+ 20      98 759        -2J          2 Q02           __Z         49.33
372 919       100         119 001           100         3.13
others         30 311
TOTAL                       403 230
La including 12 476 ha (=2.327 plots) of land distributed under Agrarian R,!form Law.
Lb minly state owned and collective land
La Including 8 199 ha (1.390 plots) of land distributed under Agrarian Reform Law.
Li state owied land.
lSl6Ep.22



- 66 -
Table 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Water Use in the Sub-project Areas
Water Use
ORMVA/Sub-Project          Area (ha)        Incremental   in 1983
_ - __ Mm3
DOUKKALA
Doukkala Canal, Boulaouane          52,700             46.0         391.0
GIARE
Sebou-Beht                          10,108             78.0         206.0
Beht Rehabilitation                  3,175              2.4          12.8
HAOUZ
Tessaout                             4,050               7.7         20.5
MOULOUYA
Pumping Station, Rehabilitation    60,300              90.0         244.0
OUARZAZATE
Timadline                               340             4.2           0
Ouarzazate                            1,140             4.3           6.2
Idelsane                               380              3.5           2.5
SOUSS-MASSA
Souss                                6,100              4.0          36.6
TADLA
Beni-Moussa                         10,000             13.4          52.0
TAFILALET
Tubewells                               250              2.6         0.0
TOTAL             148,543            264.7         987.0
1816Ep3O



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORTJRAPPORT D'EVALUATION
NfRCCD/MAROC
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT/PROJET 0'AMELIORATION OE LA GRANOE IRRIGATION
1f.  Inmact of the Prolect on Government Budset (incremental) */ hi
Impact du Proiet sur la Rudaet de lIEtat (notion additionnellel a/ h/
(OH Millions)
PY1                            PYS                                    PYIO    PYll-17        PYl3-2Q
1986   1587   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996-2002   2003-2005
A. Sources/Inflows                                                                                                                             A.  Relp5Daces
rARO loan                         4.2   72,4  110.9  110,9   77,6   34,0            -       -       -       -       -            -             Prit sRO
raxes QX                        1,5   35,8   54,9   52,0   36.3   15,7            -       -       -       -       -            -             Oroits et Taxes C/
Total 5Surces                   La 1L0.2  165l    8L1    114.4    9.7             -       -       -                                          Total Ressourees
B. Applications/Outflows                                                                                                                       B.  £luis
Project cost d/                 9,6  165.3  238,9  230,0  1522,  60,0   20,0   20,0   20,0   20,0   20,0                    20,0             Cout du Projet d/
Service de 13 dette sur
Debt service IBRD loan          0,2    3,6   11,9   21,9   52,1   57,2   58,7   58,7   58,7   58,7   58,7                      -              Prit BIRO
Subvention intrants         0
Input subsidies c/              1,4    2,2     2,5    2,2         -       -       -       -       -       -       -            -              additionnels ui
Total Aoolications             11.2  171.1  25.3  Z5.J1  204.   UL2Z    ZL Z7.7   2B.7   7.                   r    2        00              l Total lEmla.s
C.  &Agr_- Saving Due to                                                                                                                       C. Econmils budaetaires
ORMVA's Increasd         .                                                                                                                    risultant deS Suoolements
Revenues f/                    52,1   55,6   54,5   76,4   70,9   78,9   95.8  113,7  137,6  140,0  140,0                   140,0             de revenus des ORWKA f/
0.  Surplus fOeftciti a A-B+C                                                                                                                  0.  Surplus (Oeficitl=A-RiC
Annual                           46,6   (7,31 (33,0) (14,8) (19,0)  11,4   17,1   35,0   58,9   61,3   61,3                  120,0             Annuel
Cumulative                       46,6   39,3   ,6,3   (8,5) (27,5) (16,1)    1,0   36.0   94.9  156,2               -             -            Cumuli
a/  Project-related cash flows, public service expenses (extension,                             _/  Cash Flows 1i1s au projet, dipenses de service public des OrWA
experimentation), and agricultural credit operations excluded.                                   (vulgarisation, expirimentation) et opirations de cridit agricole
non comprises.
g;  In current terms until 1990 and in constant terms thereafter.                               b/  En termes courants jusqu'i 1990 et termes constants ensuite.
C,  Import duties and taxes on project investments, including technical assistance   C/  Taxes et droits de douane sur les invastissennts du projet,
and studies.                                                                                    y compris assistance technique et itudes.
di  ORMVA's recurrent cost from 1992.                                                           d/  Charges recurrentes Pour les ORSvA apris 1991.
e/  Reduced from 45t of real cost in 1984 to 30X in 1985, 1St in 1986 and                       1/  Riduite de 45t du coat reel en 1984 i 30tS en 1985, lSS in 1986
progressively to ot inl19so.                                                                    et progressivemnnt jusqu'i Ot en 1990.
f   Resulting in a decrease in Government funds applied.                                     *  V   Notion de diminution d'emplois de fonds de l'Etat grice i
l'autofinancement accru des ORDIA.
1728Ep20



STAFF AFPPA!SAL WPOR?
LADAK                 ONIIIIiA!l  IMPROVEMENT PIO.1ECT
Inam1  inA    Lk                        aI&Ma]*  OabU    HMa      L*kaau  Houlama  QACuaraz±   Smaluau laa I               hZ LIArinla   IDI
1. GA mipmIN
Hydraulic Excavator                               I        2       -        I         I                         I                   2- 
Loader/Excavator                                  2                1        1         -           -1                                 3         a
Bum  truck                                        1        4       4        3         4           -2                                          is 1
Mobile Crane                                      -        -       1        -         -                         I                              2
Crane-truck                                       -        1       -       2          1I                                   -                   4
Crane-tractor                                     -        2       1        -         ---1-                                                    4
Compressor                                        -                1 I                -                         I                              2
Tractor (*railer)                                 -        -       2       -4                     --                       3         -9
Hotorarader                                       -        -       1                  I           -             1          1         1         4
Compactor                                         -                1                  I                        -           -                   2
Service van                                       -        -       -        --                    -             2          --2
Pick-UPS-                                                  -       -       - -                    -             2          --2
Repair Tools                                          -                       -                                 I                              I  
irrigation Exp. Equipment                             -        -                                  I             I                              2
Workshop Equipment-                                        -  -        -              I                                                         I      
2. AN*lAGFEIMT IOdJ!FMEN?
Couiuter Equipmant Set                            I        -       I        I         I           1             1I                     
Training Equipment Set                            1        ILa   1          1         1           1             1          1         1         9
La Vehicles far transport of personnel not included
Lb  Technical specifications may be different from an OSIWA to another (see Annex 1)
LS Includes equipment necessary for the training center of eleotrauchanics of the Gharb OIWA to be established under the Project.
1S18fEp2S



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
-DOC
LARGE SCALE IRRIQATION IMPROVENENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
(man-months)
Inter-OUIVA                                                                 Souss-
Work      Doukkala  Gharb  Haou2  Loukkos  Maulouya  Cuar2a2ate  Massa   Tadla  Tafilalet  TOTAL
1.ITraininia Lg
*General Training                              LT /A             24            -        -       -        ----                                       -                  24
*Training of Trainers                          ST LA              B                                                                                   
2. M4anaaeunt and Monitorina Systems
MHanagement Control                                LT             12           2        2       -        3          -                               3          -       24
*MIS Lb                                            LT             18           6        6       -        6          -            --6                          -        42
*Financial Manageimnt                             ST              6            3        2       -        3                 -               -                  -        l8
.Cost Accounting                                   ST              6           4        4       -        4          -            --4                          -        22
Computer Use                                      LT             18           2        2       -        2          ---2                                      -        26    0
*Training                                          ST             6            2        2       -        2          ---2                                      -        14
6620           20       -       20          -            --2                                  14
2. DonraLion and Maintenanc                            LT             18            6        -      is        -          6          18          6        6        18        36
TOTAL LT                                           goU _   _  -                         _                        isU        6      7U T                 m1
TOTAL ST                                           26           9        9       -        9           ---                            9         -62
GRAND OIhA                            T6            26   -iw   78   -wo                  -6         -ii                 76ww 
LA LT a Lanig-term consultant; ST - short-term experts
/J MIS = Management Information Syvstem
L& Training other than far item included in (2)
15 1GEp26i
01)



- 70-                                          Table 9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Status or PreRaration of Enaineering Desion
for Prolect Works
Preliminary           Detailed            Expected        Studies
Works                     Design              Design             Completion    Undertaken by
OEMVA OOUKKALA
1. Boulacuane Pumping Station             Done         To start in Sept. 85        6/86       ORMVA-Consultants
2. Headreach Canal Rehabilitation
Rehab. of Imfout Tunnel             Done          Done                                   Consultants
Canal Desiltation and Rehab.        Done          Underway                   12/85      DORIVA Consultants
Canal Water Control                  Done         Underway                   12/85       Consultants
Hydromechanical Equipment            Done         Underway                   12/85       Consultants/ORHVA
3. Others
Drain Desiltation                    Done         Underway                   12/85       ORMVA
Drain Rehabilitation                 Done         To start in Sept. 85        6/86       ORIVA Consultants
ORMVA GHARB
1. Sebou-Beht Canal                       Done         Done                           -        Consultants
2. Beht Irrig. Rehabilitation             Done         Done                           -        Consultants
-RsV HAOUZ
1. Canal Upgrading                        Done         Done for 251 of Canal          -        ORHVA
3RMVA LEKKOS
1. Paved Roads                            Done         Done                           -        Hin.Public Works
INRVA HOULOUYA
1. Pumping Station                        Done         Done exept for build-       9/85        Consultants
ing. lifting pipes
and intake, underway
for diversion weir.
2. Hadagh and Shouihya Rehabilitation   Done           Done for 30% of area           -        ORHVA
3. Others
Protection of Caret Canal           Done          Done                           -       ORPVA
IWRVA OUARZAZATE
1. Idelsane Pumping Station              Oone          Underway                   12/85       DRMVA
2. Timadline Irr. Upgrading               Done         Done                           -        ORIVA
3. Ouarzazate Rehabilitation
Diversion weir                      Done          Underway                   12/85       Consultants
Distribution system                 Done          Done                            -       ORFnrVA
ORMVA SOUS-HASSA
1. Pumping Station Rehabilitation        Done          Done for similar equip-
ment in the perimeter         -       ORMVA
ORMVA TAOLA
1. Compl. Irrigation                     Done          Done for 40% of the area       -        DRMVA
2. Others
Road Upgrading                      Done          Done for representative   6/86          ORMVA/Consultants
sections totalling 15%
of total length
Repair of Main Canal                Done          Done                           -        DRMVA/Consultants
ORIVA TAFILALET
1. Tubewells                             Done          Done for similar works
in the area
lSl6Ep2l



- 71 -
Table in
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1. Morocco - Agricultural Strategy Paper, IBRD (Report No. 4725-MOR, of
January 19, 1984)
2. Morocco - Financial Sector Review, IBRD (Report No. 4957-MOR, of
February 15, 1984)
3. Morocco - President's Report of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(Report No. P-4032-MOR of May 28, 1985), in two volumes
4.  Maroc - Rapport de preparation du Projet d'amelioration de la Grande
Hydraulique, FAO/CP (Report No. 36/85 CP-MOR 43 of March 20, 1985) in two
volumes
5.  Maroc - Notes de travail et propositions, Projet d'amelioration de la
Grande Irrigation, FAO/CP (Report No. 60/84 CP-MOR 39 WP, of
August 7, 1984)
6. Expropriation des droits d'eaux de la Tessaout Amout et facturation des
eaux d'irrigation, ORMVA du Haouz (1984)
7. Terres collectives et biens Melk en indivision dans le p6rimitre du Gharb,
ORMVA du Gharb (April 1985)
8. Note relative aux terres collectives et aux biens Melk dans le Gharb,
ORMVA du Gharb, (April 1985)
9. Memorandum sur les reformes de gestion de la Grande Irrigation,
IBRD/FAO/CP/Government (December 1984)
10. Codes des Investissements Agricoles au Maroc (July 1969)
11. Project de Loi relatif aux associations d'usagers des eaux agricoles, MARA
12. Revue Hommes, Terre et Eaux, No. 55 sur Legislation et reglementation des
eaux au Maroc (June 1984).
1516E



STAFF APPRAISAI. REPORT
MOROCCO
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1. Organization Chart
External Audit
_ _ _ _ -…_ - - - - - - - ~  ~ ~ ~ ~1       National Coordination Committee
ORMVAs'              Ministries  of       Farmers                                        Ministries of        Ministry of
Board of            Interior  Equipmen Represent.                    MARA                ?lanningiFinance      Eco-Affairs
Directors                                 ------.Central Coordination Unit = SG  _…_
I                                     Other
D irector         iiu _  IIU  |- ~~  ~ ~ ~                 DER       DPAE    Central
Project Planning 1. Training                                  Directorates
Project. Plantrol    Plan./MISL
Managt.  Control  Pat n                                       P      m            Financial          Sugar
.     Pattern  _  Program  Control   Studies
Contract               and              Unit
Monitoring            Training
Accounting   Agri4Livest .   Irrigation                             -      I
Finance  Development  O&M                  -- Project Supervision         ---
| Finance   ||Development ||    O&M       l         @ - - - -|  Pr°and Monitoring
IAdministr. 1lExtension ||Equipment                               Acout         M&E
L_   11  -  ' '             r                  | ~~~~~~~~Accounts i   M&E 
I                         _                     Unit   j   Unit
OBRbVAs      |  |I     Governor                       Training
Provincial Offices
Rainfed Irrigat.           Technical
| Rainfed  |Irrigat r       Support Committee
H | |     CERCLE
|   Subdivisions  P  ¢Agri. Development
Local Commission
C                 'Commune Rurale'|
Farmers    Water User's Assoc.   roducer's Association    Cooperatives  Farmer's Chamber CNCA Network    Agro. Industries



STAFF APPRAtSAL REPORT
LARGE SCALE IRRIGATION IMPROVENENT PROJECT
ljiMlintatign Sch.dulm
_                       1        l      ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~2    3                4                         6                 1
ProSect Year                                                                                     19 l             199 _119
Calendar Year                              1916              19 7              198811891991H1991
First-Year Program                             ... ...
Others                                                           . -                    -       -                                            - -
O1LM Equipment                                 - ---                                                   
Radio Equipment
Comuters
*Oaukkala ORHVA---                                                -
*Others- --
Maintenance Contracts                        t         ....
Vehicles                                      -                                      
2. Technical ASsistance
and Studisn
Completion of Remaining
Design
TA for Training                      _        .
TA for HIS and Computer Use
Doukkala                                  *   ****
Loukkos, Gharb, Tadla
*Others                                                      ... ... 
Training bY INAV and ISCAE                             ......
Studies
Crop. Patterns & Sugar                      .       - --
Others                                                      ..... 
Training                                              -    -     - = -  - - - - - - - - -
3.  instit, and Policy Reforms
Programn Contracts
Doukkala                                                     … _                                - _
Gharb, Loukkos, Tadla
Others                                                                                                   - _   _
Research Programs
formation of water Users
Associations
Haouz, Tafilalet. Ouaraazate               -  -   _
Tadla- -                                                 - - - - - -
Divestiture of Commercial
Services
4.  Project Mid-term Ray IM
..... Tendering  and Award                                    Tendering, Award and Delivery                                   Implementation



PORTUIGAL SPAIN             1rAYr   OREECE  IURKEY     B                                         SPAIN
.OROCC,~ jUNISIA *7dI" ),TLd:.~N!  -..-~                                                             t*GIBRALTAR. (I
""  ,BFAT C             'TUNISIA  _IMil.! ;..    3'6.
jMOiCROCCO,         Q 
ALGEIA            tARAB                                           TANGER
ALGEI               IEY       |RFP O)F                                                         ;
......     E RIA    ~   LIBYA     IRPO
IN,                         ~~~~~~~~~EGYPI
MAURITANIA'       .      /                                                                      A
MALI           NIGER       CHAtj SUDAN                                                                      N
OASENFGAB~- __/                                                                    O RMVA
LOU KKOS
ORMVA  -~~~~.                 EAOUN
.  ;d  .     
OORAMVA                   s
DO UIK A LA
-:  i A NA T I C                                           RAB8    - 
E  A NsctN^            
- 4C)      t                       !11 R~~~~~~ANr
ELARE CLEADIDIONARA
ORMVA                                                           I  , SETTAN  G   AREAS
DOLJKKALA                                           .          ,
\   gg   ,    t         lC~~~~~HOURlrHtzs      X A  
'i^RAFJ. _ * ; BENDMSrCII CftUIEA
f             J      ^                                       t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RRA(
PI IV, \71 A ~ ~    ~        ~       I       XIIIG  AM
Ia ToSayo~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Tr
(ORM'.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~RV LiAT  OFC REIOA Du mEF
-TAN                                                               I      EX~~~~~~~~~  IVESTNDAS
2r ~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~     I ~~~~~~MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALl IN MJIIMFIERS
28' ~   ~     ~        AA--                                                                    < \     



IBRD 19063
SPAIN                            4
* GIBRALTAR. IU.K.I                                                                    3e-
TANGER                            M  I      '    .' : A  ,I      -
4-
I j TOUAN                                               ORMIVA
AL HOC IMA                          MOULOLJYA
L hroe    'DO 1k1
ORMVA~
LOUKKOS                   . -                                                                       s
(-IDr.dI~~iA--~~               I ..~ iINATI
GHARB
OR rvAT  /        i      \,II1:  {I    
Mohommedio                              MNI            "/ 
_  ANCA                                                  *6i.t  E
SETIlAT        \ 
KHOUJRIHGA    0.
F (sIEN   MFr  , Al-
.Uz  A  L  GE  RI A
-UAR                                                                                                                 I G -  '
j   -)'r  /)
a,                                                                       -
^<~~~~~~A M    R O C C O
o0                 LARGE SCALE I RRIGATEON
PI>                              IMPROVEMEW PROJECT
13u,,__:
>                                                      *  +  Iu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII VVA % 
MAN :.1N  I )  |!'~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/                  ~~~~~~~ORhlVA tlhUiTS I OFFMC Rl .t.)4)AI 1)f1,41SI 'N v.i titR AGHlC (L.F I    +  AMRN iv!%
REGIONAL OF*fIF FOlR AG PlfrjijIVAj 01lyt104rMEN'
LARGE SCALE IPFIGATICN AREAS
I I' 11    I'  1 )VN% ANt: (011'  I
FXISTING IRRIGATH) AREAR                              S A           iRRIGATION
FUtURE IFIRIGA IFI) ARF- A
ORMV  LIITS  OEI(F  I (IONA  11MISEI NVAIfTR  GHICLE    4  'IRI N,L'..i(Nl(al
RIDAMS To BOICF  ORCONSARUCIM   INIIFIAI .1NA  OUNllANlFS
EXISTING DAAMS      R(                                                                  N       At
I  EXISTING DAMS                                  ~~~~~~~~--    'NIT iNA''O]NAI BOUNE)ARIE5 S APPPOTIIMAEEI
RIVERS
RIVF5- - INIJI( AIF S THI ilRRITORY OF IHF FORMER
MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALI IN MIIIMIf;tS                                    SPANIS'H  AHARA :WISTERN SAHARA;           7
8~                                                                               4
AUGUST 1985



