Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFAL USE ONLY
Repat No. 14007
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOANS 2729-IN AND 2730-IN)
MARCH 1, 1995
Industry and Mining Division
Industry and Energy Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit     =      Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 1.00           =     Paise 100
US$ 1.00           =     Rs. 31.00 at time of PCR preparation
US$ 1.00           =     Rs. 13.00 at time of SAR finalization
Fiscal Year
Government of India: April 1 - March 31
IFFCO:      up to June 30, 1987:    July 1 - June 30
transition period:       July 1,1987 - March 31,1989
as from April 1, 1989:  April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CPCB        Central Pollution Control Board
DANIDA      Danish International Development Agency
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAI         Fertilizer Association of India
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
GAIL        Gas Authority of India Limited
Gcal        Gigacalories (1 million kcal)
GOI         Government of India
GPCB        Gujarat Pollution Control Board
IFFCO       Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd.
kcal        Kilocalories (1,000 calories)
kg          Kilogram
Mcal        Megacalories (1 million calories)
MINAS       Minimum National Discharge Standards
MMm3pd      Million cubic meters per day
Nm3         Normal cubic meter
OECF        Overseas Economic Corporation Fund
PDIL        Projects Development India Limited
SCF         Standard conversion factor
tpd         Metric tons per day
tph         Metric tons per hour
UP          Uttar Pradesh
UPPCB       Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 1, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on India - Cooperative Fertilizer
Industry Proiect (Loans 2729/2730-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India - Cooperative Fertilizer Industry Project
(Loans 2729/2730-IN), prepared by the South Asia Regional Office with Part II provided by the Borrower.
The major component of the project consisting of a large scale, state of the art, energy efficient,
gas-based ammonia/urea fertilizer plant at Aonla, Uttar Pradesh, was constructed and commissioned in
record time and came into production ahead of schedule. Because of the good technical design of the plant
and the high quality of the operational and maintenance personnel, the plant has been consistently
producing well above its nameplate capacity (125% in 1993/94). The implementation experience with the
rehabilitation subcomponent (three smaller fertilizer producing units at Phulpur, Kalol and Kandla) was
less impressive, though most of the objectives, in terms of higher capacity utilization, better energy
efficiency and better environmental protection were met. The lengthy approval process by the Govermnent
caused a long delay in the implementation of these subcomponents.
Although the Program of Initiatives, supported by the import component of the loan (US$150
miillion), was supposed to address fertilizer subsector issues by setting performance targets, none of the
objectives, especially  those related to fertilizer pricing and subsidies, were realized.   During
implementation of the project, the Bank, considering that the Government of India had not made significant
progress in reforms, informed the Indian authorities that the Bank would discontinue making loans in the
subsector until the fundamental issues had been addressed more satisfactorily.
The last subcomponent of the project: the Performance Evaluation and Control System Study got
off to a late start. Although the first phase of the Study has been finished, its second phase, including
actual design and implementation of the information system, will not be completed until sometime in 1995.
This Management Information System was to assist the Ministry of Fertilizer in evaluating the performance
of state-owned fertilizer companies.
While the policy reform achievements of the project have been quite disappointing, the project has
realized all of its physical and technical objectives. The plant at Aonla is an intrinsically economic unit,
capable of meeting competition in the international market, and its management has a sound and proven
track record. The project outcome is, therefore, rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely. The
institutional impact of the project is rated as modest.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties. Iu contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COGXLETION xZORT
XN&
COOPERNXVE FERTILIXZR IXNDUY PROJECT
(LoasL 2729-IXN & 2730-IN
TAJIA Or CONTENTS
PAE.............................
Ng     X SI  X zY    ..U.T. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..O. .i.
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM SANK'S PPRSPPCTIVF . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity  ....    .....  .  .  .  .  .    . . . .   . . .   1
Background .... . . . . . . . . . ...                          1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Project Description ............ .     .      . . . 3
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
The honla Component ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  4
The Rehabilitation Component  . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
The Performance Evaluation and Control System Component  5
The Import Component  ... .  .  .  .  .    .. .          5
Project Implmentation  ......... ..... 5
Implmentation Schedul. . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . . .    . 5
Procurement ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . .   . . .   . 7
Project Costs .       .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   a
Financing ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... . .  .  .  .  .   .    9
Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Market Development  ........ ........    10
Operation Preparation .....                      . .. . 10
The Program of Initiatives  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Project Results ........... ..               .......    13
The Aonla Project ..........  ....  ...  .    13
The Rehabilitation Component  . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Financial Performance of IFFCO  . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Environmental Impact and Disaster Management  . . . .  16
Project Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Project Sustainability  ........  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..   .   18
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Borrownrc' Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Project Relationship  .........  ...  .   .           . .    . . .   .  21
Consulting Services   .........  ...  ...  .   . . . .    21
Project Documentation and Data  .....  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .   .   21
PART XX8  PROJECT RIVIX  I RON BORROEB R'PPR8 TSVP  . . . . . . . . .  23
C ents by  iO .......... . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  23
This document has a reticted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in th performance of their
offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizmton.



Comments by GOI (Department of Fertilizers).25
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION.31
Bank Group Operations in the Fertilizer Sector.31
Project Timetable.32
Loan Disbursement ....................... .  33
Project Implementation .................... .  35
Project Costs and Financing .................. .  37
Aonla Project ................... .  37
Rehabilitation Project    .................              .  38
Project Financing .................... .  40
Bank Financing ..................... .  41
Project Benefits ....................... .  43
The Aonla Project .................... .  43
The Rehabilitation Project                                  49
Targets and Achievements of the Program of Initiatives  .    54
Use of Bank Resources .55
Staff Input .55
Missions .                                                  56
Status of Covenants .58
ANNXS
Annex 1    India - Consumption, Production and Import of Fertilizer
Annex 2    Implementation Schedule of Aonla
Annex 3-1   Import Parity of Urea and Economic Value of Natural Gas
Annex 3-2  Economic Rate of Return
Annex 3-3  Financial Rate of Return
Annex 3-4  Retention Price Calculation
Annex 4    Financial Performance of IFFCO
Annex 5    Environmental Aspects
Annex 6    Urea plants based on Natural Gas from Bombay High and South
Bassein



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loans 2729-IN & 2730-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Cooperative Fertilizer
Industry Project in India, for which Loan 2729-IN to the Government of India
(GOI), in the amount of US$150.2 million and Loan 2730-IN to the Indian Farmers
Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd. (IFFCO), in the amount of US$150 million, were
approved on June 26, 1986. Loan 2729-IN to GOI was closed on June 30, 1992, and
was disbursed in full. Loan 2730-IN to IFFCO was closed on June 30, 1993, one
year behind schedule. Due to a reduction in total financing requirements for
IFFCO's project components, a total of US$45.277 million was canceled, reducing
the Bank Loan to IFFCO to US$106.72 million and total Bank financing for the
project to US$256.92 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Country Operations, Industry & Finance
Division, Country Department II (South Asia Regional Office), the Industry and
Mining Division of the Industry and Energy Department (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and IFFCO, the Beneficiary (Part II).  For their
information,  a copy of the PCR has been sent to   the Overseas Economic
Cooperative Fund (OECF), of Japan, the Danish International Development Agency
(DANIDA), of Denmark, and the OPEC Fund, the project co-financiers.
Preparation of the PCR started during a project completion mission in India
in April-May 1994, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports; the Bank project files;
information prepared by IFFCO for the Aonla and the Plants Rehabilitation
components; and valuable statistical information obtained from the Fertilizer
Association of India.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loans 2729-IN & 2730-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiective.
1.    The main objectives of the project were to expand domestic nitrogenous
fertilizer production and to improve the operational efficiency of existing
plants in the cooperative sector, in order to lessen India's dependence on
imports and take advantage of the vast and newly developed Bombay High natural
gas resources as economic feedstock. These objectives were to be achieved in
part through the construction of a new ammonia/urea complex at Aonla (Uttar
Pradesh) and the rehabilitation of three IFFCO existing plants. By increasing
fertilizer production in some of India's major agricultural areas, the Project
would reduce volumes of fertilizer transported from coastal ports and plants to
northern states, and further stimulate fertilizer consumption in these areas
where it was still at a low level. Through the Aonla project, GOI also seeked
to promote the transfer of technology. A study was funded under the project to
design and implement a management performance evaluation and control system aimed
at improving existing institutional arrangements for the management of public
sector fertilizer plants, to enhance their performance, and increase their levels
of capacity utilization. Finally, through the provision of US$150 million to
GOI for fertilizer and raw materials imports, the project aimed at supporting
GOI's Program of Initiatives in the sector to reduce fertilizer costs and the
level of fertilizer subsidies.
Imolementation Experience
2.   Plant constructions of the Aonla ammonia/urea complex was completed on
January 1, 1988, thirty six months after the construction starting date, as
initially planned by IFFCO, and about six months ahead of the Bank's conservative
estimate. In spite of delays in supply of gas by the Gas Authority of India
(GAIL), production of urea started on May 18, 1988. Commercial production was
formally declared on July 7, 1988, 42 months after the zero date as estimated by
IFFCO and more than two months ahead of the Bank appraisal estimate. The Aonla
plant was completed well ahead of schedule, in October 1988. It was designed and
implemented efficiently and within budget.
3.   The   plant   rehabilitation   program,   however,   encountered   serious
implementation delays and was adjusted several times, adding and canceling a
number of sub-projects. It suffered mainly from long delays in obtaining GOI
approvals and from some instability in IFFCO's top management during the critical



- Iv -
initiation phase of the project.   Implementation only started after December
1988, when government approvals were obtained, instead of in January 1986, as
planned at appraisal, three years behind schedule. While all investments were
originally expected to be completed before the end of 1989, it was necessary to
extend the loan closing date to June 30, 1993 to allow completion of all but one
of these investments.
4.   The Performance Evaluation and Control System study was also substantially
delayed, as agreement on its terms of reference (TORs) and short-list of
consultants was reached only in June 1988, about two years behind schedule. Late
in 1989, DOF proposed changes in study implementation arrangements and break-down
of the study into two phases. The first phase of the study, aimed at identifying
information requirements for the Department of Fertilizer (DOF) to evaluate
performance of, and control, fertilizer companies was initiated in April 1991,
and the draft report was completed in April 1992 (55 months behind the original
schedule). The final report was completed in October 1993. The second phase,
which includes the actual design and implementation of the information system and
of needed hardware, is under implementation.
5.   Implementation of the import component (originally intended to finance
imports of sulfur, potash and phosphate raw materials) was substantially delayed,
due to unresolved disagreements over the Borrower's procurement procedures for
phosphate and potash materials, which were determined to be inconsistent with
Bank Guidelines. In January 1988, the Bank agreed that naphtha, fuel oil and
crude oil could be financed under the loan, using procedures identical to those
agreed under the Drought Assistance Program. The import component was disbursed
in full in June 1990, about two years behind schedule.
6.   Total financing requirements for the Aonla complex amounted to Rs.6,596
million versus Rs.8,230 million estimated at appraisal, equivalent to US$507.4
million and US$633.1 million, respectively. These significant savings (about
20%) occurred in interest during construction, working capital and commissioning
costs, due to faster than expected implementation and commissioning.   Large
savings also occurred (US$95.8 million) in financing requirements for
rehabilitation investments in IFFCO's other plants, since these amounted to
US$38.7 million only, versus US$134.5 million at appraisal. Lower costs were due
to the cancellation of many scherges which were no longer relevant, and to
overestimated interest during construction.
7.   Total Bank financing actually amounted to US$256.9 million (compared to the
original loan amount of US$302.2 million), including US$89.1 million for the
Aonla project, US$17.7 million for the rehabilitation component, US$150 million
for the import component, and US$200,000 for the MIS study. Bank funds totalling
US$45.3 million were canceled , including US$22.9 million (20.5%) for the Aonla
component and by US$22.3 million (56%) for the rehabilitation component. The
Loan to the Government (Loan 2729-IN), however, was fully disbursed by June 1990,
before its closing date.   The IFFCO loan closing date of June 30, 1992 was
extended once to June 30,  1993 to allow completion of the rehabilitation
component.  In addition to the Bank loan, GOI also received other cofinancing
funds for the Aonla project totalling US$150.8 million.



Proiect Results
8.   Overall, for the Aonla component, project objectives were more than fully
met. Capacity utilization at Aonla is high, at 118% and 125% for the ammonia and
urea plants, respectively in 1993/94.   It is estimated that the plants are
capable of maintaining a sustained 110% capacity utilization rate during their
entire economic life, which is substantially higher than the 95% maximum capacity
utilization assumed at appraisal for the third year of operation. IFFCO's sales
in Aonla's main market area (UP, Haryana and Punjab) have more than tripled since
plant otart-up. Overall increase in fertilizer demand nationwide have been in
line with appraisal estimates.
9.   The Aonla project economic rate of return (ERR) is now estimated at 12.2%,
lower than the base case rate of 17.1% estimated at appraisal. This difference
is mainly because international urea prices have been substantially lower than
projected at appraisal, while the fuel oil equivalent value has not decreased to
the same extent. For reasons given below, the project financial rate of return
(FRR) is now estimated at 15.6%, slightly lower than the appraisal estimates of
16.6% (paras. 7.6 and 7.7).
10. The Aonla plant financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated at 9.8%,
slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of 11.8%. The actual price of natural
gas is slightly higher than appraisal estimates, while urea retention prices are
much lower than those projected at appraisal. However, this difference in
relative prices is partly compensated by higher rates of actual capacity build-up
and utilization, a shorter implementation period, and lower capital costs.
11. All implemented rehabilitation sub-projects with quantifiable benefits
(generally the result of efficiency improvements and energy savings), have
internal rates of return ranging between 23% and 110%, compared to rates of
return ranging from 20% to over 40% estimated at appraisal.   Other, more
difficult to quantify, benefits include reduction in negative environmental
impacts through better effluent controls, increased safety, and increased plant
reliability.
12. The Program of Initiatives supported by the import component was only
partially implemented and had limited and at times conflicting results. Average
capacity utilization rates and energy consumption did improve, mainly due to
start up of a number of modern, gas-based plants and to rehabilitation and
operational improvements in existing gas-based, and, to a much more limited
extent, fuel oil-based plants.   However, in outdated coal-based state-owned
plants, capacity utilization actually decreased and energy consumption increased.
Unprofitable "sick" plants have been maintained in operation, although GOI has
recently officially declared two companies (owning several of these plants)
"sick", triggering an audit process now underway, and a decision about their
future is expected shortly. With respect to fertilizer prices, while those of
phosphatic and potassic fertilizer were deregulated (which led to substantial
increases), prices of urea to farmers were reduced by the Government by 10%,
exacerbating existing distortions in relative consumptions of nitrogenous,
phosphatic and potassic fertilizer. GOI did revise the retention price formula
for gas-based plants to reduce prices and the fiscal burden of fertilizer



- vi -
subsidies. However, the price of gas remains significantly above its opportunity
value, affecting the financial position of efficient companies and distorting
feedstock choices. Finally, fertilizer subsidies to farmers have continued to
increase from about Rs.19 billion in 1986/87 (0.73% of GDP) to Rs.58 billion in
1992/93  (0.92% of GDP).   During implementation of the project,  the Bank,
considering that GOI had not made significant progress in reforming fertilizer
prices and reducing subsidies, inform GOI that it would discontinue processing
of the Fertilizer Distribution Project, and would make no further loans in the
sector until these fundamental issues had been addressed more satisfactorily.
Environmental Aszects
13. At Aonla, effluent treatment and discharge facilities were constructed in
accordance with Indian environmental standards, which are comparable to standards
applied for such installations in industrialized countries and/or other
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank. The ammonia and urea plants were
designed based on a zero-effluent concept. A green belt of 150,000 trees was
planted to improve the ecological balance of the surrounding area and reduce
noise and dust  transmission.    Finally,  Aonla  is equipped with  a modern
environmental management laboratory, on-line analyzers and adequate water and air
pollution monitoring stations, and early- on defined and implemented an
environmental management plan, including a detailed monitoring plan.
14. In 1992/93, more than four years after commissioning, IFFCO carried out a
new Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the plant, which concluded that
Aonla pollution control measures were effective and that all effluent were within
the limits specified by the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). Also, in 1989,
the Center for Energy, Environment and Technology carried out a case study on
environmental management practices at Aonla and reached similar conclusions. The
study also recommended the inclusion of periodic external auditing in the Aonla
management plan.   Finally,  in 1992/93,  IFFCO revised the Aonla Disaster
Management Plan in light of new guidelines issued by the Directorate of Factories
of the Department of Labor of UP.
15. The naphtha-based Phulpur ammonia-urea plant, which was commissioned in
1980,  is located in the Indo-Gangetic plains.   Since start-up,  IFFCO has
implemented an extensive program of effluent and pollution control improvement
to bring the Phulpur plant in full conformity with UPPCB and MINAS standards.
Part of these schemes were financed under the project.   Pollution control
measures for liquid effluent, air emissions, domestic sewage, and solid waste
were adopted, and aim at maximum reduction and re-use of effluent and safe
management and use of solid waste. A green belt of 270,000 trees was planted to
improve the ecological balance of the surrounding area and reduce noise and dust
transmission.   Phulpur is equipped with a modern environment and pollution
control laboratory, on line analyzers, stacks sampling arrangements, water and
ambient air pollution monitoring stations, and has established a detailed
monitoring plan.
16.  In 1992/93,  HBTI/KANPUR undertook an EIA of the Phulpur plant which
concluded that the plant would not cause any irreversible impact on the



- vii -
environment or deplotion of the water table, and that impact on air, water and
land bodies was  negligible.    It  also  concluded that  the  socio-economic
*nvironment had improved; and that the green belt moderated the plant impact on
the environment. It did recommend further reductions in diucharge of effluent
water (currently recycled at about 60%) and improvements in the bottom of the
urea storage to better control moisture seepage.
17. The gas-based Kalol ammonia-urea plant (Gujarat) was commissioned in 1975.
Since start-up, IFFCO has implemented an extensive program of effluent and
pollution control improvements to reduce pollutants in plant effluent within the
limits of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) and MINAS standards. Part
of the newer schem-e were financed under the project. A number of pollution
control measures for liquid effluent, air emissions, domestic sewage, and solid
waste were taken, aiming at maximum reduction and re-use of effluent. Most of
these improvements were commissioned in 1992/93 and 1993/94 and liquid and gas
effluent are now in conformity with the GPCB standards.
18. The Kandla Diammonium Phosphate (DAP) and complex fertilizer (NPK) plant
started commercial production in 1975.   It is adjacent to the Kandla port
(Gujarat). The units are based on a well-known process, with total recycle of
liquid effluent, and are equipped with the necessary gas effluent treatment and
pollution control systems. Under the project, a new modern ammonia tank was
implemented for increased safety. The plant also received many safety awards
from the Government of India and from Gujarat Safety Council.
Prol ct Sustainability
19. It is estimated that, over its economic life, the Aonla plant is capable
of maintaining a sustained capacity utilization rate between 100% and 110%. If
GOI decides to deregulate the fertilizer sector (including prices of inputs and
outputs), the Aonla plant would be able to withstand competition from imports,
at currently projected import parity prices, even in the absence of protective
tariffs, while paying natural gas at its fuel oil equivalent value. In fact,
such deregulation would improve the project FRR from the currently estimated 9.8%
to 12.8% (para. 2). The major risk still faced by the project is that, in order
to reduce the financial burden of the fertilizer subsidy, GOI may decide to
revise the urea retention price norms further downwards. This would render the
project less attractive. The duplication of the Aonla plant, which is currently
under implementation, should further improve project sustainability by reducing
fixed cost per ton of urea.
20. In the long term, sustainable operation of the plant is also a function of
adequate supplies of natural gas feedstock and efficient operation of the HBJ
pipeline. GAIL is no longer supplying gas to Aonla for use in steam generation
and heating. This shift was foreseen, and is not expected to have an impact on
project viability.   IFFCO has also reached an agreement with GAIL for the
duplication of the Aonla plant. However, this duplication is being designed with
a possibility of replacing up to 50% of natural gas with naphtha as feedstock.
The current high price of natural gas may be resulting in wrong decisions with
respect to feedstock choice for future ammonia plants, as may be the case here.



- viii -
21. The main objective of the performance evaluation and control system
component was to assist GOI in further improving the physical and financial
performance of public sector fertilizer plants, by designing information and
control systems linking greater autonomy at the enterprise level to increased
accountability of its managers. Such a system is potentially very useful, but
GOI should be careful not to use it to increase day-to-day control of public
sector companies, further centralize decisions, and increase the number of
approvals.
22. While it is correct that GOI fertilizer policy has allowed India to develop
a large domestic fortilizer production which positively contributed to reaching
targeted increases in foodgrain production, it has also resulted in growth in
fertilizer subsidies to unsustainable levels. However, fertilizer subsidy and
low-price policies have a built-in effect of increasing total amounts of fiscal
subsidies by encouraging further consumption of subsidized fertilizer. As the
subsidy issue will become more and more acute, GOI will have to urgently address
this issue.
Findinas and Lessonz Learnt
23. The Aonla project was efficiently implemented, well within budget and
significantly faster than the Bank's conservative implementation schedule. This
points-out at the importance of sufficient and timely availability of funds and
adequate project implementation and operation preparation arrangements.  The
constitution of a high quality on-site project team with the required autonomy
and authority to manage project implementation and subsequently take over plant
operations, incorporating experienced staff from other plants and supported by
a modern computerized project management system, was of particular importance.
Also important was the timely preparation and implementation of comprehensive
manpower planning, recruitment and training programs ahead of time to prepare for
later operations.
24. The many (justified) changes which were required to the plant rehabilitation
program during implementation highlight a need to design and manage such programs
more flexibly. Unless all subprojects have been fully designed and evaluated and
are ready for immediate implementation by appraisal, the project documents
should, besides a tentative listing, include a definition of the types of
rehabilitation investments that would qualify, and of selection criteria that
they must meet. The same flexibility, and delegation of approval authority to
the company, should be obtained from government approval authorities to avoid
lengthy delays.
25. The unsatisfactory implementation of the Program of Initiatives addressing
major sector issues shows the difficulty for the Bank of influencing sectoral
policy-making unless full government commitment to a program of reforms has been
formally secured up-front.   In the course of the project preparation, GOI
officials have developed with assistance of Bank staff, the Program of
Initiatives. However, GOI was not able to determine the appropriate speed with
which adjustment can be made, given the complexity of the sector issues,
particularly politically highly sensitive issues on fertilizer pricing and



- ix -
subsidies. The absence of specific time-bound implementation schedule of the
Program of Initiatives, agreed and specified, in appropriate legal covenants has
made it difficult for the Bank to follow up on its implementation. Although the
import component has partially met its objectives of supporting the Program of
Initiatives, it should have been made with appropriate conditionalities securing
the implementation of the required actions and probably only after the critical
reform measures have already been initiated.






- 1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loans 2729-IN & 2730-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Name:          Cooperative Fertilizer Industry Project
Loan Number:  2729-IN & 2730-IN
RVP Unit:      South Asia Region
Country:       India
Sector:        Industry
2.        Backaround
2.1       The agricultural policy of the Government of India  (GOI) aims at
ensuring increased food production, towards self-sufficiency. The objective of
further expanding fertilizer use, which has grown from 66,000 tons per year of
nutrients in 1952/53 to more than 12.7 million tons in 1991/921, is an important
part of GOI strategy to increase agricultural output. Eight development plans
have given priority to the development of the fertilizer industry to ensure a
sustained supply of fertilizers, substitute for imports, and expedite the
achievement  of agricultural  self-sufficiency.    As  a result,  the bulk of
nitrogenous fertilizer consumed in India is domestically produced (90.7% for
1991/92) and large amounts of phosphate fertilizers are also produced by the
domestic industry, largely from imported inputs (77% of total supply in 1991/92).
The entire national consumption of potassic fertilizer, however, is imported.
2.2       The policy framework of the fertilizer sector is one of the most
complex in India -- with tight Government control of feedstock and most output
pricing, of market allocations,  and of fertilizer distribution.   Government
policies also limit the choice of technology, feedstock, plant location, project
execution arrangements and financing, and allocation of production licenses
between  the public,  joint,  cooperative,  and private  sectors.    Prices  of
phosphatic and potassic fertilizers were decontrolled on August 25, 1992, but,
for all straight nitrogen fertilizer (about 59% of total nutrient consumption in
1992/93), the pricing policy remains characterized by: Ci) low and uniform
farmgate prices (Rs.2,760 per ton of urea since August 1992, equivalent to US$89
in April 1994); (ii) producer prices set ex-factory for each plant's output
(retention prices) to cover almost all production costs on the basis of a
combination of actual and normative costs and to provide a post-tax return of 12%
of total equity; and (iii) a budgetary subsidy to bridge the gap between the
price paid by farmers and the price paid to producers. Retention prices for urea
plants currently in operation range between Rs.2,500 and Rs.6,147 per ton, and
averaged about Rs.4,734 per ton in 1992/93 (Rs.4,400 per ton for the Aonla
Project for the three year pricing period ending FY 1993/94) -- most Indian urea
producers presently receive ex-factory prices that are in line with landed prices
of imported urea or below (landed prices were estimated at about US$ 180 per ton
of bagged urea in May 1994, or Rs. 5,580 at an exchange rate of Rs.31 per US$).
2.3       This policy has permitted India to develop a large domestic fertilizer
production -- India is today the fourth largest fertilizer producer in the world
-- and positively contributed to reaching the country's targeted large increases
I Average fertilizer consumption increased from 0,55 kg per ha in 1951/52 to about 70 kg
per ha in 1991/92, while cropped area increased from 133 million ha to 181 million ha



in foodgrain production. However this policy has also resulted in growth of the
fertilizer subsidy to an unsustainable level (Rs.58 billion in 1992/93), and in
the survival of a few uneconomical fertilizer operations.   GOI has recently
recognized the need to address sectorial issues, but until now limited its action
to the implementation in March 1992 of some timid and somewhat conflicting
recommendations of a Joint Parliamentary Committee on Fertilizer Pricing: (i)
full decontrol of pricing and distribution of phosphatic and potassic fertilizer;
(ii) a 10% reduction in the controlled farmgate price of urea; and (iii) re-
imposition of price and distribution controls on lower analysis nitrogenous
fertilizer which had been decontrolled since July 1991. These measures in fact
accentuated the already existing distortions in relative consumption of
nitrogenous, phosphatic and potassic fertilizer. Furthermore, (probably under
the pressure of the farming community and the phosphate fertilizer producers),
GOI has granted a direct subsidy of Rs.1,000 per ton of phosphatic and potassic
fertilizer.    The only positive consequence of these measures is increased
transparency of the subsidy paid for phosphatic and potassic fertilizer.
2.4       The Indians Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd.  (IFFCO) Aonla plant
financed under the project is an integral part of GOI's plans to utilize
associated and non-associated gas from the Bombay High and South Bassein offshore
oil and gas fields, for use as feedstock for petrochemical and fertilizer plants
in the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar
Pradesh. The project is one of six large, modern ammonia-urea plants planned by
GOI since 1979, which were to be constructed in a phased manner during the sixth
Five-Year plan, based on the lean gas portion of these gas resources, in addition
to two other plants, Hazira and Thal, which were already under construction in
1984. These six plants were to be constructed along the planned Hazira-Bijaipur-
Jagdishpur (HBJ) pipeline (Annex 6).  Four plants out of six are already in
operation (the IFFCO project plant in Aonla, the public sector NFL plant in
Vijaipur, the private sector Indo Gulf plant in Jagdishpur and the Chambal
Fertilizer & Chemicals in Gadepan), and the remaining two are expected to be
commissioned in August 1994 by the private sector (the Bindal Agro Chemical plant
in Shahjahanpur and the Tata Chemicals plant in Babrala). Furthermore, GOI has
approved the duplication of the Vijaipur and Aonla plants, for which process and
design contracts have already been signed, pre-project activities have started
and contract for supply of gas have been signed with Gail.
2.5       The rehabilitation component of the project is also part of GOI's plans
to increase domestic production of fertilizer by improving the efficiency and
capacity utilization of existing plants.
2.6       IFFCO is a central cooperative society, registered in 1967, with  a
total membership in 1992/93 of about 30,200 cooperatives societies, covering 18
states and 3 union territories. At that date, the company's paid-in capital was
Rs.3,633.5 million, of which Rs.2,896.6 million was subscribed by GOI (80% of
capital, compared to 58% in 1985). IFFCO is one of the best managed fertilizer
companies in India, with records of efficiency in terms of capacity utilization,
project implementation, marketing, and service to farmers through extension
programs. In addition to the Aonla, Kalol, and Phulpur ammonia-urea plants and
to the Kandla NPK plant, IFFCO holds 21.7% of the KRIBHCO's ammonia-urea complex
in Hazira, and 7% of Industrie Chimique du Senegal, a phosphate fertilizer
producer.
3.                     Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.1       Project Objectives:         The main objectives of the project were to
expand domestic nitrogenous fertilizer capacity and to improve the operational
efficiency of existing plants in the cooperative sector, in order to lessen
India's dependence on imports and to take advantage of the vast and newly
developed Bombay High natural gas resources as economic feedstock. By increasing
fertilizer production in India's main agricultural areas, the Project also aimed
at reducing volumes of fertilizer transported from coastal ports and plants to



- 3 -
northern states, and at further stimulating fertilizer consumption in these areas
where it was still at low level. Through implementation of the Aonla project,
GOI also seeked to promote the transfer of technology. Funding of a study to
establish a management performance evaluation and control system aimed at
improving existing institutional arrangements for the management of public sector
plants, to enhance their performance and increase their levels of capacity
utilization. Finally, through the provision of US$150 million to assist GOI in
meeting its fertilizer raw materials import requirements (thus freeing up
equivalent  resources  for  efficiency  improvements),  the  project  aimed  at
supporting GOI's program of initiatives in the fertilizer sector to reduce
fertilizer costs and the level of fertilizer subsidies.
3.2       Project Description:  The project consisted of four components:
(a) The Aonla component - An amount of US$112 million was provided from the
Loan  to finance  the construction by  IFFCO   of a natural  gas-based
greenfield nitrogen fertilizer complex at Aonla (Bareilly district, Uttar
Pradesh), including: (i) a single train- 1,350 tons per day (tpd) ammonia
unit; (ii) two 1,100 tpd urea units with a common 2,200 tpd prilling tower;
(iii) integrated power and steam generation facilities, including two 18
MW gas turbine generators, two exhaust heat recovery units each of 80 tons
per hour (tph) of steam, and one 150 tph boiler; (iv) raw water and
effluent treatment facilities, a water demineralization plant and cooling
water systems; (v) storage for 20,000 tons of refrigerated ammonia in two
tanks, and for 45,000 tons of bulk urea, and facilities for bagging urea;
(vi) other related offsites, including maintenance workshops, warehousing,
administration building, laboratory, transport facilities and effluent
treatment; and (vii) infrastructure, including a township with 985 housing
units and social amenities, rail links, and transmission lines for power
supply from the grid;
(b)  The rehabilitation component - An amount of US$40 million was provided
under the Loan to finance the rehabilitation of three existing IFFCO
plants, to increase their operational efficiencies.   The major schemes
consisted of: (i) at the Phulphur (UP) ammonia-urea production facilities
(commissioned in 1980), a major revamping of the primary reformer,
improvements in boilers' operation, an energy survey, an additional ammonia
storage tank, and the installation of a urea hydrolizer unit; (ii) at the
Kalol (Gurajat) ammonia-urea production facilities (commissioned in 1975),
the revamping of the urea plant, the modification of the primary reformer,
equipment replacement, an additional ammonia storage tank, various
pollution control measures, and the purchase of instrumentation and
inspection equipment; and (iii) at the Kandla (Gujarat) DAP/NPK production
facilities (commissioned in 1974), the retrofitting of two of the process
trains with pipe reactors, additional storage and bagging facilities, and
an additional water system;
(c) The performance evaluation and control svstem component - An amount of
US$200,000 was provided from the Loan to further develop the management
information system (MIS) which was being implemented by the Department of
Fertilizer,   to  incorporate:   (i)  periodic  evaluations  of  company
performance;  (ii)  a  signalling  system  to  highlight  variations  from
established performance standards; (iii) a control mechanism to monitor
progress of corrective actions being taken; and (iv) a review of the scheme
of management performance incentives to foster improved plant operations;
and
(d) The import component - An amount of US$150 million was provided from the
Loan to finance imports of fertilizer and associated raw materials, in
support of GOI's efforts to increase production efficiency, improve pricing



policies and reduce subsidies through the implementation of GOI's Program
of Initiatives.
4.        Proiect Design and Organization
(a) The Aonla Component
4.1       At the planning stage of the project, all decisions with regard to
location, plant size, choice of raw materials, selection of technology and of
consultants, were taken exclusively by the Ministry of Agriculture.
4.2       At the implementation stage, the project was designed, organized and
implemented by the Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Fertilizer (IFFCO), with
the assistance of: (i) for the construction of the ammonia plant, Harold Topsoe,
of Denmark, in association with Projects Development India Limited (PDIL), a
state-owned engineering firm; (ii) for the construction of the urea plants, Snam
Progetti, of Italy, in association with PDIL ; and (iii) for the steam and power
generation and all offsites, Development Consultants Pvt. Ltd. (DCPL), an Indian
engineering firm .  The scope of consultants' assistance included supply of
licenses, basic design, detailed engineering, procurement services, construction
supervision, and technical supervision of commissioning.
4.3       From the start, in order to implement the project efficiently, timely
and under-budget (para.2), IFFCO created project organization arrangements which
included: (i) a dedicated on-site, high quality project team, headed by an
executive director, assisted by three managers, with the required autonomy and
authority, which was in charge of project management, coordination and
supervision; (ii) the setting up at plant site of a modern computerized project
management system to efficiently support the planning and monitoring group and
the quality control group -- it is reported that in addition to easier project
planning, monitoring, control and reporting, this helped in maintaining dynamism
and a goal-oriented approach among the project team; and (iii) the design and
execution of a manpower planning, recruitment and training policy and of a
detailed program to meet the project construction, commissioning and operational
requirements -- this policy was based on the correct decision to use the project
implementation team to run the plant at the operation stage, and to appoint
experienced personnel from IFFCO's existing plants to the project team. IFFCO
was awarded second prize for excellence in project implementation for the Aonla
project by the Ministry of Program Implementation.
4.4       Another key factor in the successful implementation of the project was
the timely availability of sufficient funds.  Actual project costs were well
below appraisal costs estimates (para. 2).  Equity funds from GOI's allocations
and from the company's internal cash generation were abundant and available on
time. In addition to the Bank loan, the Aonla project benefitted from financing
by the Overseas Economic Corporation Fund (OECF) of Japan, and by the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA)of Denmark (para. 2 and Part III, para.
5-C).
(b) The Rehabilitation Component
4.5       The Rehabilitation project was implemented by IFFCO, using its in-
house expertise and, for the most important schemes, assistance of consultants
for activities such as basic engineering, detailed engineering, and supervision
of construction.
4.6       Implementation of the overall rehabilitation component was under the
control of IFFCO's Executive Director, at Headquarters in New Delhi. Pre-project
activities (project preparation, Government approvals and clearances, obtention
of import licenses) , project overall coordination, communications between the
different agencies involved in the project (GOI's agencies, financing
institutions and consultants), and preparation of monthly progress reports were



the responsibility of the Technical Services Division at Headquarters. All site
activities were carried out by the decentralized production units and included
most procurement and contracting, inspection and transportation of equipment,
construction and erection, and commissioning and testing. In each plant, the
schemes were implemented by a task force headed by an assigned chief manager and
reporting to the plant General Manager.
(c) The Performance Evaluation and Control System Com=onent
4.7       The study for development of the MIS is being implemented by the
Department of Fertilizer of the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers (DOF) . It
is carried out by Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), of India, which was contracted
in April 1991.
(d) The Import Component
4.8       Fertilizer and fertilizer imports were administered initially by the
Minerals & Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd. (MMTC). However, later on,
when the Bank agreed that fertilizer feedstocks, naphtha and fuel oil, as well
as crude oil, could be financed under the loan, these imports were administered
by Oil India (para.23, 2).
5.        Proiect Implementation
Implementation Schedule
(a) The Aonla Component
5.1       The  zero date of the project,  which was  originally planned at
appraisal for October 1, 1984, was revised to January 8, 1985 because of delays
in obtaining the final Public Investment Board approval for the consultancy
contract. However, mechanical completion of the complex occurred on January 1,
1988, thirty six months after the zero date, as initially planned by IFFCO and
about six months ahead of the Bank's conservative estimate. In spite of delays
in supply of gas by GAIL (Part III, para 4.1), production of urea started on May
18, 1988. Commercial production was formally declared on July 7, 1988, 42 months
after the zero date as estimated by IFFCO and more than two months ahead of the
Bank appraisal estimate.   Completion as defined in the Loan Agreement  (as
operation during a period of 60 consecutive days, at an average daily production
rate of 80% of full capacity), occurred well ahead of schedule in October 1988.
A detailed comparative schedule is presented in Part III.
5.2       Main Problems Resolved During Implementation:  Several problems were
encountered during implementation. All were detected on time and efficiently
resolved by IFFCO's project team without significant impact on the overall
project schedule and within budget. These included:
(i)   delays in the supply of gas for power and steam generation-- gas was due
for delivery by the Gas Authority of India Ltd (GAIL) before July 31, 1987
(according to the Guarantee Agreement), however, gas supply only started
on March 24, 1988, more than two months after mechanical completion. To
avoid delays in pre-commissioning, the project team decided: (i) to equip
the steam generation plant with dual firing (gas and liquid fuels); and
(ii) to dry the primary and secondary reformers, cold collector and
transfer line refractory using super kerosene.   These measures allowed
pre-commissioning to proceed on time and avoided a delay of about two
months;
(ii) plant site soil conditions were worse than expected, preventing the piling
contractors to keep on schedule. To avoid delays, IFFCO decided to use a
vibro-sinker for compaction piling for the first time in India and
introduced a bonus clause in the piling contracts.   The average rate



- 6 -
increased from less than 9 piles per day to more than 60, and piling was
completed six weeks ahead of schedule;
(iii) inadequate road infrastructure for excessively long transport from port to
site of the 410-ton ammonia converter and other oversized equipments
(ODE) . The project team planned this transport efficiently -- the
converter was transported from Calcutta by river over 1,800 Km on the
Ganges, for the first time, and then by road to Aonla over 150 km; other
ODEs were transported by river up to Varanasi over 1,250 km, and then by
road to Aonla over another 690 km; and
(iv) the CO2 compressor was supplied with a 12-month delay by BHEL, an Indian
supplier. The project team, the consultants and the contractors worked
around the clock to complete erection and commissioning of the CO2
compressor on time.
(b) The Rehabilitation Comvonent
5.3       The plant rehabilitation program encountered serious implementation
delays. It suffered mainly from long delays in obtaining GOI approvals and from
some instability in IFFCO's top management during the critical initiation phase
of the project. It was anticipated at appraisal that implementation of this
component would start by January 1986, and that, except for one scheme at
Phulpur, all schemes would be completed before the end of 1989. However, GOI's
approval was obtained only in December 1988, and it was necessary to extend the
loan closing date to June 30, 1993 to allow the completion of all the schemes
except for the CO2 removal scheme-- the CO2 removal scheme will be completed in
1995. A detailed comparative schedule is presented in Part III.
5,4       The rehabilitation investment program was adjusted several times
during project implementation, adding and canceling several sub-projects to: (i)
reflect changing priorities and constraints identified while implementing these
programs after such long delays; and (ii) take into account the effect of
increased investments costs on their respective viability -- higher investments
costs resulted from the devaluation of the Rupee which occurred during the
period. The status and actual cost of each sub-project compared to appraisal
estimates are given in Part III, 5-B. Main events included: (i) the revamping
of the primary reformers of the Phulpur and Kalol plants, leading to increased
capacity and energy savings; (ii) implementation of urea hydrolizers at Phulpur
and Kalol to reduce and improve plants effluent; (iii) the construction of an
additional ammonia tank in each plant to improve safety; (iv) the replacement of
the CO2 compressor turbine at Phulpur for energy saving; (v) an energy survey of
the Phulpur plant which resulted in an easy improvement in the operation of the
boiler and consequently the cancellation of the originally planned increase in
coal capacity; (vi) the revamping of the Kalol urea plant and the replacement of
the high pressure carbamate condenser for capacity and energy improvements and
higher reliability; and (vii) the cancellation of the storage and bagging scheme
and of the granulation plant reactor scheme at Kandla -- these were no longer
urgent, in light of the deregulation of phosphatic and potassic fertilizer
markets.
(c) The Performance Evaluation and Control Svstem Component
5.5       Agreement on the study terms of reference (TORs) and shortlist of
consultants was reached by June 1988, about two years behind schedule. The first
phase of the study was initiated in April 1991 and the draft report completed in
April 1992, respectively 54 and 55 months behind the schedule agreed at
negotiations.   Late in 1989,  DOF proposed changes in study implementation
arrangements and proposed a study in two phases. The scope of the first phase,
to be implemented by TCS, included the identification of DOF information
requirements for fertilizer companies under its administrative responsibility,
focusing on their performance evaluation and control. The second phase, to be



implemented jointly by TCS and the National Informatics Center (NIC), would
include actual design and implementation of the information system and of needed
hardware, based on TCS recommendations in phase one. Since the full scope of the
original TORs were included in the two phases, the Bank accepted the revised work
program in February 1990.
5.6       The final report of the first phase, which was completed in October
1993 after incorporating DOF's comments and suggestions, was handed over to the
Bank in May 1994 during the PCR mission. This study: (i) includes the definition
of DOF's objectives within its mandate and policy environment, and the functions
and the information required for achieving them; (ii) reviews the existing MIS
and its deficiencies; (iii) proposes a performance evaluation system based on a
signalling system and the existing relationships between GOI and public
enterprises, and suggests the types and weights of performance indicators; (iv)
proposes the development of an integrated computerized system including: a
fertilizer planning system, a budget system, an import management system, a
fertilizer distribution system, a handling and payment system for import, a
project monitoring system, and a performance monitoring and evaluation system;
finally (v) makes recommendations on strategies for hardware, software and data
communications and training. The second phase of the study is being implemented
and will take about 15 months to complete.
(d) Import Component
5.7       This component was originally intended to finance imports of sulfur,
potash and phosphate raw materials by the Minerals & Metals Trading Corporation
of India Ltd.  (MMTC) .   Implementation of this component was substantially
delayed, due to important divergences between the Bank and MMTC on the wording
of bidding documents, particularly with regard to the exclusion of Israel from
procurement -- the import component was completed by June 1990, about two years
behind schedule. Sulfur was successfully imported, but imports of potash and
phosphate materials proved to be difficult since the procurement procedures were
determined to be inconsistent with Bank Guidelines, resulting in very slow
disbursements.   In January 1988, as a corollary to the Drought Assistance
Program, the Bank agreed that fertilizer feedstocks, naphtha and fuel oil as well
as crude oil imported by Oil India could be financed under the loan, using
procedures identical to those agreed under the Drought Assistance Program. About
US$ 114 million were allocated to this use and quickly disbursed.
Procurement
5.8       Very early, IFFCO prepared model bidding documents for Bank review and
subsequently adhered to Bank International Competitive Biding (ICB) procedures
for procurement under the Loan. IFFCO also used ICB procedures for procurement
from eligible countries under OECF's credit and equivalent procedures for local
procurement.    Procurement  was  carried out,  with  consultant's  assistance,
efficiently and without delays. Early on, IFFCO detected large potential delays
in many domestic suppliers' deliveries, but quickly took corrective actions,
including the formation of a special procurement task force, intense follow-up
and coordination, and in some cases air transport for critical equipment.
Success was also due to the formation of a special committee of IFFCO's Directors
to expedite expenditure decisions during project implementation.
5.9       The pace of procurement under the rehabilitation component was very
slow.  The main reasons were:  (a) IFFCO cleared even small packages with the
Bank, until Bank staff clarified that this was not required in the legal
documents; (b) GOI's approval was required for each sub-project; (c) IFFCO
Management (and Board) approval was required for each sub-project, due to
pervasive disagreements within IFFCO's management. Furthermore, in late 1989,
the Bank received informal complaints from two bidders regarding the procurement
procedures used by IFFCO for the ammonia converter retrofit and the synthesis Gas



- 8 -
Dryer schemes. After a detailed review, the Bank concluded that IFFCO had not
violated the procurement guidelines in this instance.
Proisct Costs
(a)     The Aonla Prolect
5.10      Actual financing requirements for the Aonla ammonia/urea complex
amounted to Rs.6,596 million versus Rs.8,230 million at appraisal, equivalent to
US$507.4 million and US$633.1 million, respectively. The major deviations from
original estimates are shown in Part III, para. 5.A., and are summarized in Table
1 below.
Table 1
Cost. of the Aonla Project
Appraisal
Estimates     Actual Costs    Variati
o-n
US$    Re      US$     Rs
Million  Million  Million  Million  %
- Total Base Cost             419.5  5,454   440.2  5,723      5
- Physical and Price Contingencies    45.6  593  -     -
- Total Installed Cost       465.1  6,047    440.2  5,723     -S
- Working Capital             84.2  1,095     23.1   300     -73
- Interest During Construction  83.8  1,089   44.1   573     -47
Total Financing Required     633.1 8,230     507.4  6,596     -20
5.11      Actual total financing requirements are substantially below appraisal
estimates, about 20% in both local currency and US Dollars -- the average
exchange rate calculated from actual phased project expenditures being in line
with the exchange rate considered at appraisal (Rs.13 per US$). The actual total
installed cost of the project is in fact only 5% below appraisal estimates and
the actual base cost is 5% higher than appraisal estimates. Significant savings
occurred in: (a) interest during construction -- due to lower loan financing of
the project and to faster than expected project implementation; (b) working
capital -- much lower than estimated at appraisal; and (c) erection and
commissioning costs -- due to faster than planned implementation and
commissioning.
(b) The Rehabilitation Comvonent
5.12      Actual financing requirements amounted to Rs.1,002 million, versus
Rs.1,748 million at appraisal, equivalent to US$38.7 million versus US$134.5
million. Deviations from original estimates are presented in Part III, para. B,
and summarized in Table 2 below.
5.13      Actual total financing requirements are substantially below appraisal
estimates, about 43% in local currency and 71% in US Dollars. The differential
in cost underruns between local currency and US Dollars is due to the devaluation
of the Rupee during the implementation period. This high underrun is the result
of: (i) the cancellation of many schemes, mainly in Kandla; and (ii) significant
savings in interests during construction.



- 9-
Table 2
Costs of the Rehabilitation Component
ApDraisal
Estimates    Actual Costs    1 Variation
Re.   US$    Rs.    US$
Millio Million  Milli  Million  Rs.  US$
n            on
Phulpur                 2B3.3   21.8  334.7    14.0  18  -36
Kalol                    532.9   41.0  440.5    16.6  -17  -60
Kandla                   228.4   17.6  108.9    4.0  -52  -77
Total Base Cost         1044.6   80.4  884.0    34.5  -15  -57
Physical and Price Contingencies  260.7   20.0
Total Installed Cost  1305.3  100.4    884.0  34.5   -32  -66
Interest During Construction  443.0  34.1    117.8  4.2   -73  -88
Total Financing Repuired  1,748.3  134.5  1001.B  38.7    -43  -71
iinancinq
5.14      Total Bank financing amounted to US$256.9 million, of which US$89.1
million for the Aonla project, US$17.7 million for the rehabilitation component,
US$150 Million for the import component, and US$200,000 for the MIS study. The
Aonla project was implemented with a debt/equity ratio of 56/44, in line with
appraisal estimates. At appraisal, the rehabilitation component was projected
to be entirely financed from long term debt, however, 45% of costs were actually
financed from IFFCO's internal resources.
5.15      In addition to the Bank loan, GOI also received the following other
cofinancing funds for the Aonla project: (i) US$126.8 million equivalent from
OECF (Japan); (ii) US$6 million equivalent from DANIDA (Denmark); and US$18
million equivalent from the Government of Italy. These funds were transferred
to IFFCO as equity. GOI also received the equivalent of US$5.35 million from the
OPEC fund as cofinancing for the rehabilitation component, however, IFFCO decided
to borrow only Rs.102.5 million from GOI out of these OPEC funds, or US$3.73
million equivalent.
Disbursement Schedule
5.16      Due to the large reduction in IFFCO's total financing requirements,
a total of US$45.28 million (about 30% of the original loan to IFFCO) was
canceled, reducing the Bank loan to IFFCO (Loan 2730-IN) to US$106.72 million
equivalent and total Bank financing of the project (including the import
component) to US$256.9 million -- Bank financing was reduced by US$22.9 million
(20.5%)  for  the Aonla  component  and by US$22.3  million  (56%)  for the
rehabilitation component. The Loan to the Government (Loan 2729-IN), however,
was fully disbursed by June 1990, before its closing date.
5.17      The IFFCO loan closing date of June 30, 1992 was extended to June 30,
1993 to allow completion of the rehabilitation component.   This extension
permitted the completion of several schemes which were focussing on energy
conservation, pollution control and plant efficiency improvements. Furthermore,
it provided the Bank with an opportunity to continue to follow-up on developments
in the fertilizer sector, at a time when policy dialogue between the Bank and the
Government on sectoral issues had stopped (this project was the last Bank
fertilizer project in India - see para.1 of Part III).



- 10 -
5.18      Compared to appraisal estimates, some disbursement delays occurred at
the beginning of the project -- appraisal estimates may have been over-optimistic
with respect to quick disbursement of the import component (para. 23, 2). The
pace of actual overall disbursements remained slightly slower than appraisal
estimates, but faster than the Bank profile (para. 3 (i) of Part III).
Disbursements under the Aonla component was faster than anticipated at appraisal
-- by June 1988, when urea production started, more than 82% of actual Bank
funding for this component had already been disbursed, versus 56% estimated at
appraisal  (equivalent to 70% of actual funding).   Disbursements under the
rehabilitation component started about three years behind schedule and their pace
remained very slow until loan closing (para. 3 (ii) of Part III).
Market Develocment
5.19      IFFCO  sells  fertilizer  exclusively through a network  of  30,000
cooperatives in 18 states and three union territories.  At appraisal, IFFCO was
already well established in UP, the main marketing area for the Aonla project,
with a solid competitive position. Consequently, a market seeding program was
not required. However, in order to sell incremental fertilizer volumes from the
project, IFFCO increased the number of field offices from 48 at appraisal to 62,
and of field officers from 372 to 511. Furthermore, IFFCO continued to implement
its well established extension and farmer educational programs through its 175
Farmers Service Centers.
Oneration Preparation
5.20      As indicated in para.  2, a separate team headed by an executive
director was formed early-on to implement the project, organize future operations
ahead of time, and assume the responsibility for plant operation at a later
stage. This project team was strengthened as needed during project
implementation, from 258 members at the peak of construction activities to about
963 in February 1994. Operation preparation activities took place in parallel
with project implementation and included inter-alia human resource training, and
preparation of management information systems and of safety, environmental and
operation norms. Training was given in IFFCO's existing plants and on-site, with
the help of a computerized training simulator.
The Proaram of Initiatives
5.21      The Program of Initiatives, which was set out in an agreed letter
associated with the Project, intended to address fertilizer sector issues. This
program set specific, time-bound, performance targets aiming essentially at: (i)
developing the international competitiveness of the sector while reducing
economic  cost  of  production;   (ii)  improving  efficiency  of  fertilizer
transportation and handling; (iii) reducing the fertilizer subsidy; (iv)
improving pricing by modifying and rationalizing the retention pricing system;
(v) improving public companies' management; and (vi) identifying changes and
strengthening measures needed in the distribution system and reviewing the
appropriateness of the market allocation system. Implementation of this program
was partial and had mixed results: some improvements have been made in
operational efficiency (in terms of capacity utilization and energy consumption),
mainly due to the addition of large, modern, capacities in the late 1980's.
However, except for the few modern plants, the industry remains unable to
effectively compete with imports; the old unprofitable "sick" plants have been
kept  in operation;   Government policies continue  to limit the choice of
technology, feedstock, plant location, project execution arrangements and
financing, and allocation of production licenses between the public, joint,
cooperative, and private sectors; and, finally, very little action has been taken
on the critical, but politically sensitive, matter of fertilizer subsidies and
pricing policy and regulations -- the timid and conflicting measures which were
taken (deregulation of phosphatic and potassic fertilizer, re-control of low
grade fertilizer prices, reduction by 10% of urea prices (which remained low and



- 11 -
uniform at the farm gate), revision in the retention price formula, allowance of
a direct subsidy of Rs.1,000 per ton of domestic phosphatic and potassic
fertilizer etc...) accentuated the already existing distortions in relative
consumption of nitrogenous, phosphatic and potassic fertilizer, affected the
financial position of efficient companies, and, most importantly, participated
in increasing fiscal subsidies for fertilizer from about Rs.19 billion in 1986/87
(0.73% of GDP) to Rs.58 billion in 1992/93 (0.92% of GDP). During implementation
of the project, the Bank, considering that GOI had not made significant progress
in reforming fertilizer prices and reducing subsidies, informed the Indian
authorities that the Bank would discontinue processing of the Fertilizer
Distribution Project, which was then under preparation, and would make no further
loans in the sector until these fundamental issues had been addressed more
satisfactorily. Implementation of the main performance targets set out in the
Program of Initiatives is further reviewed in the paragraphs below.
(a) Capacity Utilization
5.22      The Program of Initiatives envisaged a gradual increase in average
capacity utilization and production from the then existing nitrogen fertilizer
plants - both in aggregate and for public sector plants. Production and capacity
utilization since 1985/86 are presented in Part III para 6.3.  On  average,
capacity utilization of Indian fertilizer plants improved but still remains low
by international norms.   Total nitrogen production in 1989/90 reached the
targeted 4.2 million tpy and totalled 4.6 million tpy in 1992/93. Public sector
production remained at 1.8 million tpy in 1989/90 (60% of capacity utilization),
significantly lower than the target of 2.2 million for that year (73% of capacity
utilization), which was approximated only in 1992/93 -- in 1989/90 production of
"sick units" was lower than in 1984/85, and only by 1992/93 could other public
sector units show a slight increase in their production.  All-India nitrogen
fertilizer capacity utilization increased from 74% in 1984/85 to 83% in 1989/90,
in line with the target of 82%, and reached 85% in 1992/93. During this period,
the cooperative and private sectors increased capacity utilization respectively
from 93% and 77% in 1985/86, to 106% and 98% in 1989/90, and 111% and 107% in
1992/93.
(b) Feedstock and Energv Consumption
5.23      Nitrogen fertilizer production in India is still based on a wide range
of feedstocks. Recent ammonia-urea plants are large, energy efficient gas-based
plants along the HBJ pipe, however, a large part of the existing capacity is
based other feedstocks, including naphtha, fuel oil and coal. The targets and
achievements with regards to energy consumption are presented in Part III para.
3. Average energy consumption of gas-based plants has decreased from 10 Gcal per
ton of ammonia in 1984/85, to 9.6 Gcal in 1989/90, and 9.5 in 1992/93, still
higher than the targeted 9.0 Gcal, and very far from the 7 Gcal or less which
currently available technologies can achieve (Aonla had an average consumption
of 7.76 Gcal in 1992/93).   Fuel-oil based plants have improved their energy
consumption in line with the targets, but no improvement was obtained in the
naphtha and coal-based units -- energy consumption of the coal-based sick plants
owned by FCI and HFC increased steadily and reached 42.7 Gcal in 1992/93; for
naphtha-based plants, energy consumption of even the better operated plants
remain very high (energy consumption of the well operated IFFCO's Kalol plant
decreased to 11 Gcal in 1992/93 but increased again to 11.5 Gcal in 1993/94).



- 12 -
(c) Distribution Efficiency
5.24      Progress in improving distribution efficiency has been limited, mainly
because of lack of incentives associated with the equated freight and market
allocation systems. However, a rationalization study is being carried out RITES
and the final report is expected soon. The all-fertilizer as well as the urea
average rail haulage distance (lead) has not changed significantly. it remained
within a 1,010-1,080 km range for all fertilizer until 1989/90, then decreased
steadily to about 900 Km by 1992/93, compared with the target of 800 km by 1990
(700-800 km for urea) .  The commissioning of several large plants closer to
market increased the use of road transport for short movements (less than 250 km)
and in fact probably contributed to the high average rail lead, as rail transport
became restricted to longer distances. In 1984/85 constant terms, the equated
freight paid to nitrogen and complex fertilizer producers decreased from Rs.235
per ton in 1984/85, to Rs.195 in 1990/91 and Rs.196 in 1991/92 (Rs. 302 and
Rs.327 in current terms). This decrease (17%) is higher than the 10% reduction
which was established as target.
(d) Ex-Factory Pricinq
5.25      The retention price system was introduced in 1977.  It is fixed by the
Fertilizer Industry Coordination Committee (FICC) office attached to the
Department of Fertilizer of the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, for
individual producers, on the basis of: (i) the type of feedstock; (ii) a 12%
post-tax return on share capital and reserves employed in the production of urea;
(iii) plant capacity utilization; and (iv) variable and fixed costs based on
standard rates, norms and actual prices of inputs.   In recognition of the
system's drawbacks, at negotiations, GOI to review the existing system and scope
for rationalization to promote efficiency and reduce subsidies. Until now, GOI
has limited its action to the implementation in March 1992 of some timid and
somewhat conflicting recommendations of a Joint Parliamentary Committee on
Fertilizer Pricing. These measures consisted of: (i) full decontrol of pricing
and distribution of phosphatic and potassic fertilizer; and (ii) re-imposition
of price and distribution controls on lower analysis nitrogenous fertilizer which
had been decontrolled since July 1991.  In addition, the pricing formula was
adjusted -- for gas-based urea plants, the capacity utilization norm was
increased to levels higher than its low initial 80% (para. 2) and the
depreciation norm was raised to 15 years.   Retention prices for urea plants
currently in operation range from Rs.2,500 to Rs.6,147 per ton, and averaged
about Rs.4,734 per ton in 1992/93 --  most Indian urea producers presently
receive ex-factory prices that are in line with landed prices of imported urea
or below (landed prices were estimated at about US$ 180 per ton of bagged urea
in May 1994, or Rs. 5,580 at an exchange rate of Rs.31 per US$). However, the
price of gas remains significantly above its opportunity value, affecting the
financial position of efficient companies and distorting feedstock choices. In
addition, these measures in fact accentuated the already existing distortions in
relative consumption of nitrogenous, phosphatic and potassic fertilizer.
(e) Farmgate Prices
5.26      The Department of Agriculture and Cooperation fixes (uniform) prices
and distribution margins for the various fertilizer types throughout the country.
Farmgate prices remained virtually the same from 1981 to August 1991, when GOI
decontrolled low-concentration fertilizer and increased prices of high-
concentration fertilizer by 30%. Other major changes were implemented in August
1992 and consisted of the decontrol of prices of phosphatic and potassic
fertilizer, re-control of low-grade fertilizer prices, and reduction by 10% of
urea prices. The urea farmgate price was Rs.2,760 per ton of urea in April 1994,
equivalent to US$89, still much lower than its import parity, estimated at about
US$ 180 per ton of bagged urea (or Rs.5,580 at an exchange rate of Rs.31 per
US$) . Furthermore, these changes in price policies led to shifts in fertilizer
consumption and accentuated the already existing distortions in relative



- 13 -
consumption of nitrogenous, phosphatic and potassic fertilizer. In spite of the
direct subsidy of Rs.1000 per ton of phosphatic and potassic fertilizer granted
by GOI (probably under the pressure of the farming community and phosphate
fertilizer producers), farmgate prices for DAP increased from Rs.4,680/ton to
Rs.7,100/ton and prices of Muriate of potash (MOP) increased from Rs.1,700/ton
to Rs.4,800/ton, while at the same time prices of urea decreased from
Rs.3,060/ton to Rs.2,760/ton.   As a result, phosphate fertilizer consumption
decreased from 3.32 million tons in 1991/92 to 2.84 million tons in 1992/93,
while potash fertilizer consumption decreased from 1.36 million tons to 0.88
million tons. Consumption of nitrogenous fertilizers increased from 8.05 million
tons to 8.42 million tons during the same period. Consumption, production, and
Import of fertilizer in India from 1952/53 to 1992/93 are presented in Annex 1.
(f)      The Fertilizer Subsidy
5.27      The total fiscal subsidy paid through FICC includes a subsidy on
controlled domestic fertilizer, a freight subsidy on domestic fertilizer, and a
subsidy on imported fertilizer. As a result of the above pricing policy, fiscal
subsidies for fertilizer increased steadily from about Rs.19 billion in 1986/87
(0.73% of GDP) to Rs.58 billion in 1992/93 (0.92% of GDP) -- Subsidies paid on
domestic fertilizer increased from Rs.17 million to Rs.48 million, and those
paid on imported fertilizer increased from Rs.2 million to Rs.10 million. This
increase has mainly resulted from increasing consumption and from the growing gap
between low farmgate prices and high retention prices.
6.    Prolect Results
(a) The Aonla Proiect
6.1       Proiect Oblectives and Physical Results:  Overall, project objectives
were more than fully met. The Aonla plant production levels, rates of capacity
utilization and specific energy consumption since start-up are presented in Part
III, para. 6.1-A. The rate of capacity utilization during the first year of
operation (1988/89) was over 94%, and increased steadily to 118% and 125% for the
ammonia and urea plants, respectively, by 1993/94. These high rates of capacity
utilization partly reflect: (a) GOI's decision to select Harold Topsoe as process
licensor, who designed the ammonia plant less conservatively than usual in the
industry; (b) the use of high calorific value natural gas since start-up; and (c)
impressive quality of plant operation and maintenance since start-up -- between
1989/90 (the first complete fiscal year of operation) and 1993/94, the ammonia
and urea plants respectively had 344 and 330 on-stream days per year, reaching
361 and 350 days in 1993/94. Since 1989/90, Aonla production has represented
about 50t of IFFCO's total urea production. It is estimated that the plants are
capable of maintaining a sustained 110% capacity utilization rate during their
entire economic life, which is substantially higher than the 95% maximum capacity
utilization assumed at appraisal for the third year of operation.
6.2       The quality of operation is also evidenced by low total specific
energy consumption per ton of ammonia, which improved from 8.133 Gcal per ton at
start-up, to 7.765 Gcal, substantially lower than the 8.100 Gcal guaranteed, and
the 7.870 Gcal contracted consumption. In 1993/94, the Aonla plant was awarded
first prize of excellence in energy conservation and management by the Ministry
of Power for the period 1990/91-1992/93.
6.3       Market:  Actual demand for nitrogenous fertilizer in India increased
from 5.4 million tons of nutrients in 1984/85 to about 8.4 million tons in
1992/93, in line with appraisal estimates (Annex 1). Supply also increased in
line with the most optimistic appraisal projection, from 3.9 million tons of
nitrogen in 1984/85 to 7.4 million tons in 1992/93, although, from the five new
ammonia plants based on Bombay-High gas originally expected to start operations
in addition to this project, one started only in December 1993 and two are not
expected to start before August 1994. Higher supply is mainly due to larger than



- 14 -
expected average capacity utilization of nitrogen plants countrywide, which
reached 88% in 1992/93. In 1992/93, the 112% capacity utilization rate achieved
by the project (though the lowest since the first complete fiscal year of
operation) was higher than the average capacity utilization rate of nitrogen
plants in both the public sector (69%) and the private sector (107%), and was in
line with capacity utilization of plants in the cooperative sector (111%).
6.4       In spite of some inventory build-up during the first two years of
operations, total sales of urea from Aonla increased rapidly from 270,000 tons
in 1988/89 to 963,000 tons in 1991/92, much more than expected at appraisal, and
remain over 825,000 tons in 1992/93 and 1993/94. At appraisal, in line with GOI's
plans, it was expected that 77% of Aonla production would be consumed in UP, 15%
in Punjab and 8% in Haryana.  In 1992/93 and 1993/94, actual distribution of
Aonla sales was very close to the above estimates -- about 69% in UP, 20% in
Punjab, and 10% in Haryana.
6.5       The  commissioning  of  the  Aonla  project  also  resulted  in  some
rationalization of IFFCO's urea distribution from the Phulpur and Kalol plants--
the states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh are now supplied from Aonla,
which is closer, instead of from Kalol and Phulpur. Similarly, western UP, which
was supplied from Phulpur, is now supplied from Aonla. However, most IFFCO's
sales from Aonla were directed to the plant's main market area (UP, Haryana, and
Punjab), where the increase was impressive -- total sales of IFFCO in this states
increased from 360,000 tons of urea in 1987/88 to 1.23 million tons in 1992/93
and to 1.09 million in 1992/93.   IFFCO's sales, marketing program and market
shares of its plants in the Aonla market area are presented in Part III, para.
6.1.
6.6       Economic rates of return:   The project economic rate of return (ERR)
is now estimated at 12.2%, lower than the base case rate of 17.1% estimated at
appraisal. Currently projected economic values for natural gas and urea are both
substantially lower than estimated at appraisal.  However, the high value of
natural  gas  as  estimated at appraisal  was more  than compensated  for by
substantially higher economic urea prices.   The project remains economically
viable under any reasonable scenario and is mainly sensitive to urea and gas
prices. ERRs and sensitivity analyses are presented in para. 6.1.B.1 of Part
III. Calculations of urea import parity and projected economic value of gas are
also presented in Annex 3-1. Economic cost and benefit streams for the base
case, calculated using prices in constant 1990/91 US$, are presented in Annex 3-
2.
6.7       Financial Rate of Return:   The project financial rate of return (FRR)
is estimated at 9.8%, slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of 11.8%. The
actual price of natural gas is slightly higher than appraisal estimates, but the
urea retention prices are much lower than those projected at appraisal. However,
these differences are partly compensated by: (i) higher rates of actual capacity
build-up and capacity utilization-- more than 110% compared with 95% estimated
at appraisal; (ii) a shorter implementation period; and (iii) lower capital costs
of the project.   Assumptions used for re-estimating the FRR and sensitivity
analysis results, compared to appraisal estimates, are presented in para. 6.1.C.
of Part III. Financial cost and benefit streams for the base case, which were
calculated using prices in constant 1990/91 Rupees, are presented in Annex 3-3.
6.8       Revenues are based on projected retention Drices. These were estimated
by IFFCO for Aonla on the basis of the plant's actual and projected performance
and on the basis of the present retention price formula (para. 6.1.C. of Part
III).  Since April 1988, the retention price formula is based on a capacity
utilization rate for natural gas-based plants of 80% in the first year of
operation, 90% from the 2nd to the 10th year (85% for fuel oil-based plants) and
85% from the 11th year onwards  (80% for fuel oil-based plants) .  Appraisal
estimates were based on a plant capacity utilization rate of 80%, which was then
the norm used in calculation of retention prices. Retention price calculations
and projections, compared to appraisal estimates, are presented in Annex 3-4.



- 15 -
6.9       In January 1994,  the price paid for gas,  Rs.2,957 per 1,000 Nm3
(Rs.2,276 in 1990/91 terms) was significantly above its economic value (Rs.1,422
in constant 1990/91 terms) . It was assumed that the gas price would increase to
the level recommended by the Kelkar Committee up to January 1995  (Rs.3,166,
equivalent to Rs.2,440 in constant 1990/91 terms), and thereafter remain at its
1995 level in constant terms. Urea retention prices (established at Rs. 4,444
per ton for 1993/94, equivalent to Rs.3,424 in 1990/91 terms), are projected (in
constant 1990/91 terms) at between Rs.3,559 and Rs.3,629 for the 1994/95-1996/97
pricing period, and at between Rs.3,723 and Rs.3,750 for the three years pricing
period 1997/98-1999/2000) . These values are slightly higher than the current and
projected import parity of urea (in 1990/91 constant terms, Rs.2,949 per ton in
1993/94, Rs.3,219 in 1994/95, increasing to Rs. 3,488 by 1997/98).  Based on
1993/94 current prices and Bank price projections for urea and crude oil, the
Aonla project slightly benefits from the retention price scheme, but is penalized
by the gas pricing system. The high price of natural gas could result in wrong
decisions regarding the choice of feedstock for future ammonia plants.
6.10      The project is financially sensitive to both gas and urea prices.  The
FRR would increase to 12.8% if the fertilizer sector was deregulated, i.e. if,
starting in 1988/89, IFFCO could buy natural gas at its fuel oil equivalent value
and sell urea at its import parity. However, the FRR would decrease to 2.4% if
only the urea price was set at its economic level. Urea retention prices and
natural gas prices, compared with their respective economic value and appraisal
estimates, are presented in Annex 3-1.
(b) The Rehabilitation Component
6.11      Overall,  the rehabilitation objectives for the Phulpur and Kalol
Plants were met.  Plant production levels, rates of capacity utilization and
specific energy consumption since 1985/86 are presented in Part III, para. 6.2-A.
The project reduced the environmental impact of the plants by implementing
schemes to reduce and better control liquid and gas effluent (paras. 6.18, 6.20
and 6.21) , and increasing safety through construction of a new, modern, ammonia
tank in each plant. The rehabilitation component also resulted in the following
improvements in plant operation:
(i) At Phulpur, the rate of capacity utilization of the ammonia plant
increased from less than 88% before 1985/86 to 117% and 104%,
respectively, in 1992/93 and 1993/94.   Similarly, the rate of capacity
utilization of the urea plant increased from less than 91% before 1985/86
to 123% and 109%, respectively, in 1992/93 and 1993/94. Specific energy
consumption per ton of ammonia improved from 12,340 Mcal in 1985/86 to
11,040 Mcal and 11,460 Mcal, respectively, in 1992/93 and 1993/94, and
overall specific energy consumption per ton of urea improved from 9,690
Mcal to 8,210 Mcal and 8,650 Mcal, respectively, in 1992/93 and 1993/95;
(ii)     At Kalol, the modification of the reformer and the rehabilitation
of the converter were implemented in 1993/94 and their impact is not yet
reflected in the annual results.   However,  average monthly capacity
utilization of the ammonia plant increased from 86% in the April-August
1993 five-month period before revamping, to 104% in the November 1993-
March 1994 five-month period after revamping. Similarly, specific energy
consumption per ton of ammonia decreased from 10,204 Mcal to 9,324 Mcal in
the same periods.
6.12      The status of rehabilitation sub-projects, their benefits and actual
costs, compared to appraisal estimates, and whenever possible estimated ERRs, are
presented in Part III - para. 6.2.B. All implemented rehabilitation sub-projects
with quantifiable benefits (generally the result of efficiency improvements and
energy savings),  have internal rates of return between 23% and 110%.   At
appraisal, rates of return ranging from 20% to over 40% were estimated for these
sub-projects. Other difficult to quantify benefits include reduction in negative



- 16 -
environmental impacts through reduction and improvement in effluent, increased
safety, and increased plant reliability.
(c) Financial Performance of IFFCO
6.13      Selected financial data and performance ratios are presented in Annex
4.  Since Loan Approval in June 1986, except in FY 1986/87, IFFCO has been in
compliance with Bank financial covenants (debt/equity, current and debt service
coverage ratios) . In 1986/87 IFFCO's debt service coverage ratio was 1.0, lower
than the covenanted 1.3 times the maximum debt service. However, it increased
to 1.4 in 1987/89 and has stayed above 2.8 since 1990/91.  Since FY 1990/91,
IFFCO has been in a good financial position -- as a result of the excellent
operation of the new Aonla plant and of improved production performance attained
by Phulpur and Kalol after their rehabilitation, IFFCO's operating income
increased from Rs.102 million in FY 1986/87 to Rs.2,134 million in 1992/93 and
the company's return on equity increased from less than 0.1% in FY 1986/87 and
1.7% in FY 1987/89, to 10.8% in FY 1992/93.
(d) Environmental Imnact and Disaster Management
The Aonla Prolect
6.14      The Aonla project is located in a generally barren and scarcely
populated area.  Nevertheless, adequate pollution control measures have been
adopted: adequate effluent treatment and discharge facilities were constructed
in accordance with Indian environmental standards, which are comparable to
standards applied for such installations in industrialized countries and/or other
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank. Major effluent from the plant
include: (i) liquid effluent from the ammonia and urea plants and from the water
treatment plant; (ii) dust emissions from the urea plant prilling tower; (iii)
blow down of the cooling tower; and (iv) sludge from the water treatment plant.
The ammonia and urea plants were designed based on a zero-effluent concept, with
complete recovery and re-use of process steam condensates and treated liquid
effluent. A green belt of 150,000 trees was planted to improve the ecological
balance of the surrounding area and reduce noise and dust transmission. Finally,
Aonla is equipped with a modern environmental management laboratory, on-line
analyzers and adequate water and air pollution monitoring stations, and early on
defined and implemented an environmental management plan, including a detailed
monitoring plan.
6.15      In addition to the compulsory initial environmental assessment, on the
basis of which the Aonla project was designed, in 1992/93, after more than four
years after commissioning, IFFCO carried out a new Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) of the plant, to assess the actual impact of the project and
estimate the potential environmental impact of the expansion project. The report
was submitted to, and accepted by, the state and central environmental agencies.
Its overall conclusion was that Aonla pollution control measures were effective
and that all effluent were within the limits specified by the UP Pollution
Control Board (UPPCB) -- its main conclusions were: (i) overall air quality
within and around the fertilizer complex is well within the limits specified by
the UPPCB; (ii) the quality of treated effluent is well within the limit of UPPCB
and most effluent are used for irrigation of the green belt; and (iii) the noise
level is within or close to the limit of the UPPCB Pollution Control Board. The
Aonla environmental control facilities and the recent assessment carried out
after four years of operation are summarized in Annex 4, para I.
6.16      In 1989, the Center for Energy, Environment and Technology carried out
a case study on environmental management practices at Aonla.  This study was
sponsored by the Ministry of Environment and Forests. Its main conclusions were
similar to those of the above-mentioned EIA. In addition, the study recommended
the inclusion of periodic external auditing in the Aonla management plan. The



- 17 -
Bank strongly supports this recommendation which would help identify, review and
improve upon the present situation and measures.
6.17      In 1992/93, IFFCO revised the Disaster Management Plan of Aonla in
light of new guidelines issued by the Directorate of Factories of the Department
of Labor of UP. This updated disaster management plan includes: (i) an inventory
of potential disasters and precautions to be taken; (ii) an emergency plan; (iii)
an evacuation plan; (iv) emergency pollution control, including mutual aid
schemes in the event of disaster; and (v) a disaster management structure chart.
The Phulpur Plant
6.18      The naphtha-based Phulpur ammonia-urea plant, which was commissioned
in 1980 with a nominal capacity of 1,500 tpd of urea, is located in the Indo-
Gangetic plains. Since start-up, IFFCO has implemented an extensive program of
effluent and pollution control improvements to maintain the Phulpur plant in
conformity with UPPCB and MINAS standards. Part of these schemes were financed
under the project. Except for the fly ash disposal/re-use and the overflow water
of the ash pond, all other effluent are similar to those of Aonla.   Pollution
control measures for liquid effluent, air emissions, domestic sewage, and solid
waste were adopted, aiming at maximum reduction and re-use of effluent -- many
improvements in operation and effluent treatment were made in the ammonia and
urea plants for maximum recovery and re-use of process steam condensates; maximum
recovery of treated liquid effluent and recycle of ammonia; and safe management
and use of solid waste (para 7 (b) of Annex 5). A green belt of 270,000 trees
was planted to improve the ecological balance of the surrounding area and reduce
noise  and dust  transmission.  Finally,  Phulpur is equipped with a modern
environment and pollution control laboratory (recognized by UPPCB) , on line
analyzers, stacks sampling arrangements, water and ambient air pollution
monitoring stations, and has established a detailed monitoring plan.
6.19      In 1992/93, HBTI/KANPUR undertook an EIA of the Phulpur plant, based
on field data collected over a period of eighteen months on air, water and land
pollution, solid, liquid and gaseous discharges, flora, fauna, and population and
human health. Main conclusions of the study include: (i) the water table will
not be depleted; (ii) no irreversible impacts on the environment are foreseen;
(iii) efficient control measures are adopted and impact on air and the atmosphere
is negligible; (iv) liquid effluent and solid waste are well managed and their
impact on water and land bodies is negligible; (v) the socio-economic environment
has improved; and (vi) the green belt moderates the plant impact on the
environment and has improved its aesthetics. The study also recommends to further
reduce discharge of effluent water (currently recycled at about 60%), improve the
bottom of the urea storage to better control moisture seepage and continue R&D
work for the use of solid waste. Phulpur environmental control facilities and
the recent environmental impact assessment are summarized in Annex 4, para II.
The Kalol Plant
6.20      The gas-based Kalol ammonia-urea plant, which was commissioned in 1975
with a nominal capacity of 1,200 tpd of urea, is located in Gujarat.   Since
start-up, IFFCO has implemented an extensive program of effluent and pollution
control improvement to reduce pollutants in plant effluent within the limits of
the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) and MINAS standards.   Part of the
newer schemes were financed under the project. Plant effluents are similar to
those of Aonla. A number of pollution control measures for liquid effluents,
atmospheric emissions, domestic sewage, and solid waste were taken, aiming at
maximum reduction and re-use of effluent.   Most of these improvements were
commissioned in 1992/93 and 1993/94 and liquid and gas effluent are now in
conformity with the GPCB standards. Main improvements implemented in 1992/93 and
1993/94 include: (i) a deep hydrolizer unit and a leakage collection and
treatment system in the urea plant to improve liquid effluent; and (ii) a vent
gas condensation system in the ammonia plant, an additional vent scrubber in the



- 18 -
urea plant and a dedusting and a wet scrubbing system in the urea storage and
bagging facilities to improve gas effluent.
The Kandla Plant
6.21      The Kandla Diammonium Phosphate  (DAP) and complex fertilizer  (NPK)
plant started commercial production in 1975 with two granulation plants using
imported phosphoric acid and potassium chloride.   Two additional granulation
units were added in 1981 to increase production capacity to 260,000 tpy of P205.
The Kandla unit is adjacent to the Kandla port (Gujarat). The units are based
on well-known processes, are based on total recycle of liquid effluent, and are
equipped with the necessary gas effluent treatment and pollution control systems,
including cyclones, scrubbers, dedusting systems, and with total recycle of the
scrubbing liquor.   Under the project, a new modern ammonia tank was implemented
for increased safety.   The plant also received many safety awards from the
Government of India and from Gujarat Safety Council.
(f) Project Impact:
6.22 In addition to foreseeable impacts of a large project such as Aonla in a
remote agricultural area (direct and indirect employment, increased trade,
company town, educational, medical and sanitary facilities, infrastructure
development, etc.. .), the project components made significant contributions to
expanding the domestic fertilizer industry, thus, to economically securing
sustained supplies of fertilizer and substituting for imports. Other positive
impacts of the Aonla project include: (i) transfer of technology to Indian firms
-- the project was implemented with a large involvement of Indian firms, which,
by working in association with international process licensors, further improved
their capabilities in carrying out similar projects (as a result, for the urea
plants of the Aonla and Vijaipur expansion projects, only the process license
will be provided by an international firm, while the basic and detailed design
as well as procurement and construction supervision services will be provided by
an Indian firm under a license agreement) ; and (ii) development of human
resources through training.
7.        Project Sustainability
7.1       It is estimated that, over its economic life, the plant is capable of
maintaining a sustained capacity utilization rate between 100% and 110%. If, in
line with the present trend of economic policy reforms, GOI decides to deregulate
the fertilizer sector (including prices of inputs and outputs), the Aonla plant
would be able to withstand competition from imports, at currently projected
import parity prices, even in the absence of protective tariffs, while paying
natural gas at its fuel oil equivalent value. In fact, such deregulation would
improve the project FRR from the currently estimated 9.8% to 12.8% (para. 2).
The major risk still faced by the project is that, in order to reduce the
financial burden of the fertilizer subsidy, GOI may decide to revise the urea
retention price norms further downwards -- if the retention price of urea for
Aonla decreased by 10% below its present level (Rs.4,444 in 1993/94), the project
would become less attractive, and its FRR would decrease to about 4.2%. Finally,
the duplication of the Aonla plant has been approved by GOI and is currently
under implementation. If sufficient volumes of product can be sold at viable
distances, the doubling of capacity will further improve project sustainability,
by reducing fixed cost per ton of urea, provided adequate gas supplies are made
available by GAIL for the expansion.
7.2       In the long term,  sustainable operation of the plant  is also a
function of adequate supplies of natural gas feedstock and efficient operation
of the HBJ pipeline. The project utilizes a maximum of 1.72 million cubic meters
per day  (MMm3pd)  of natural gas  (1.38 MMm3pd if gas  for steam and power
generation is excluded), out of 18 MMm3pd of gas currently transported by the HBJ
pipeline (the capacity of which can be further increased to 33 MMNm3pd). In 1990,



- 19 -
the Department of Petroleum and Natural Gas estimated potential supply of gas
from the western region fields and potential demand from these fields as follows
(in MMm3pd):
SUPP1V:                          75.0 2
Demand:
- Fertilizer                     28.0
- Power                          40.0
- LPG and Petrochemicals          7.0
- Sponge Iron                     6.0
- Other                          10.0
Total Demand             91.0
Therefore, in the western region, there is an excess demand of natural gas,
the bulk of which from the fertilizer and power sectors, where demand is mainly
generated by investment decisions taken by the Government. In fact, a long term
supply contract (15 years starting March 24, 1988, renewable for a five- year
period subject to gas availability) was signed between IFFCO and GAIL on August
20, 1991 (Part III - para. 4.1) . However, in accordance with this contract, GAIL
has since notified IFFCO that it will supply gas to Aonla only as feedstock, but
not for steam generation and heating, and, starting April 1, 1994, the original
contract supply was reduced by 15%. This shift was foreseen, and is not expected
to have an impact on project viability -- the Aonla steam and power generation
systems, which were already equipped with the necessary facilities, were switched
to liquid fuels (para. 2) and, in addition, IFFCO is considering using liquid
naphtha in the super heater within a year. IFFCO has also reached an agreement
with GAIL for the duplication of the Aonla plant. However, this duplication is
being designed with a possibility of replacing up to 50% of natural gas with
naphtha as feedstock. This switching unit would cost about US$7 million and its
additional CO2 production would allow operation of the urea plants of both this
project and the expansion at full capacity. As already commented in para. 2, the
current high price of natural gas may result in wrong decisions being taken with
respect to feedstock choice for future ammonia plants, as may be the case here.
7.3         The project Aonla plant has been implemented and is operated in an
environmentally sound manner. The rehabilitated plants also are operated in an
environmentally sound manner. IFFCO is aware of risks in these plants and has
adopted the necessary safety measures. Therefore, risks of problems impacting
on local communities and the environment are small.
7.4         The main objective of the performance evaluation and control system
component is to assist GOI in further improving the overall economic performance
of the sector and the physical and financial performance of the public sector
fertilizer industry, by linking greater autonomy at the enterprise level to
increased accountability of its managers. This component will be successful if
the recommendations of the study are implemented in line with this objective.
However, GOI should be careful not to use the system to increase day-to-day
control of public sector companies, further centralize decisions, and increase
the number of approvals.
7.5         GOI fertilizer policy has allowed India to develop a large domestic
fertilizer production and positively contributed to reaching targeted large
increases in foodgrain production through increased availability and consumption
of subsidized fertilizer. This policy has resulted in growth of the fertilizer
subsidy to unsustainable levels (Rs.58 billion in 1992/93). GOI has recently
recognized the need to address sectorial issues (Part II). However, fertilizer
2/ the Staff Appraisal Report of the Gas Flaring Project (Loan 3364-IN) indicates a total supply of 61
MMm3pd of natural gas for the country's western region.



- 20 -
subsidy and low-price policies have a built-in effect of increasing the total
amounts of fiscal subsidies by encouraging increased consumption of subsidized
fertilizer. Hence, the subsidy issue will become more and more acute, and it is
probable that GOI will have to seriously address this issue soon.
8.          Bank Performance
8.1         Bank performance during project identification, preparation,  and
appraisal was satisfactory and procurement supervision was good. Two supervision
missions per year took place in 1987 and 1988 during Aonla project
implementation. Subsequently, supervision missions averaged one per year until
1994, when the PCR mission took place. Except for two missions, including the
PCR mission, they consisted of two persons or more (Part III - para. 7.B.).
8.2         The Bank's major objective in this as well as prior projects in the
sector was to support GOI strategy of increasing domestic fertilizer production.
The main emphasis was thus on improving project implementation and efficiency;
rational project selection; expanding production facilities and improving
capacity utilization rates and energy efficiency; and on reducing negative
environmental  impacts.   All project components  successfully reached these
objectives.
8.3         The Bank correctly demonstrated substantial  flexibility during
implementation of the rehabilitation component, quickly accepting on several
occasions to adapt the investment program in order to reflect changing priorities
and constraints identified during implementation, after such long delays.
8.4         At preparation, appraisal and negotiation stages, the Bank's main
objective of the Government Loan was to support the adoption of a broader
sectoral approach and address the important issues of fertilizer subsidies,
pricing, and public sector enterprise management and production performance. The
Bank was unable to obtain a formal Government commitment, however, at
negotiations, GOI informally agreed to implement its Program of Initiatives aimed
at increasing production efficiency, improving pricing policies and reducing
fertilizer subsidies. Overall production efficiency agreed targets were achieved
but progress in the important policy reforms was insignificant.
8.5         Besides this loan, the Bank was contemplating further assisting GOI
sector restructuring efforts by supporting: (i) a production-efficiency oriented
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project; and (ii) a distribution-efficiency
oriented Fertilizer Distribution Project. However, this program was dependent
on significant progress in reforming fertilizer prices, reducing subsidies, and
improving production and distribution efficiency. The reform measures proposed
by the Bank were considered too radical, and the policy dialogue on the sector
between GOI and the Bank largely ceased around 1987.
9.          Borrowers' Performance
9.1         The  Aonla  project  was  professionally  designed,  organized  and
implemented. The plant was completed on schedule and within cost, and is being
operated efficiently at more than 110% of its nominal production capacity. IFFCO
was also able to prepare commercial operations and develop adequate markets in
time. Except for the debt service coverage ratio in 1986/87 (para.2) IFFCO has
complied with the Loan financial covenants.  As already indicated, the Aonla
project was efficiently implemented and was awarded second prize for excellence
in project implementation by the Ministry of Program Implementation (para.2) and
first prize of excellence in energy conservation and management by the Ministry
of Power (para.6.2).
9.2         Such success can be attributed to IFFCO's past experience  in
implementing and operating the Kalol, Kandla and Phulpur plants and to several



- 21 -
other strengths, from which useful lessons may be drawn for the implementation
of any large public or private sector project:
(i)    from the start, IFFCO entrusted project management, coordination and
supervision to a dedicated, high quality project team, headed by an
executive director with the necessary autonomy and authority.
Furthermore, the same team organized and subsequently took over the
responsibility for plant operations. This project team included a
planning and monitoring group and a quality control group, both
efficiently supported by an on-site modern computerized project
management system;
(ii)   the project was provided with sufficient and timely funds;
(iii) through its reliance on competitive bidding and a strong procurement
management system, IFFCO could carry out international and domestic
procurement efficiently and resolve all procurement problems in
time;
(iv)   experienced personnel from IFFCO's existing plants were appointed to
the project team; and
(v)    IFFCO timely provided on-site housing facilities and services,
essential for efficient implementation in such a remote area.
9.3         In spite of long delays in implementation of the rehabilitation
component, IFFCO took correct decisions on the inclusion and scope of the schemes
which were eventually incorporated, and implemented them efficiently.
10.         Project RelationshiD
10.1        The success of the large Aonla project was also due in part to the
high level of professionalism of all parties and their good relationship; the
Borrower's reliance on, and constructive relationship with, the consultants; and
the amicable working relationships between the Bank and the Borrower.
11.         Consulting Services
11.1        The Aonla project obtained process technologies and procurement,
engineering and construction management services from well known international
firms,  in association with a state-owned engineering firm  (para.2).   The
performance of all consultants was satisfactory, except for some delays reported
by IFFCO in the supply of some specifications and design services by the Indian
engineering firm. IFFCO benefitted from experience acquired by the consultants
during the earlier construction of the Thal and Vijaipur plants, which included
identical ammonia and urea units.
12.         Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1        The legal documents of the IFFCO Loan were adequate for achieving the
objectives of the Aonla and the plant rehabilitation project components.
However, the Government Loan agreement should have included a clear and formal
commitment from GOI to implement the Program of Initiatives. The Staff Appraisal
Report and the documentation in the Project File provided adequate background for
the review of project implementation. The Bank requested IFFCO to prepare the
project-related information and data needed for the preparation of the PCR well
ahead of  the Bank  completion mission in April  1994.   All  the requested
information, including draft in-house PCRs for the Aonla and the Rehabilitation
components, was provided and discussed during the mission.   However, it was
impossible to obtain the information related to the implementation of the import
component from MMTC -- MMTC is no longer responsible for import of fertilizers.



- 22 -
12.2        The preparation of statistical data needed for Part III of the PCR
is time-consuming. An effort should be made by supervision missions to obtain
this information in the form requested in the PCR guidelines early-on from the
start of project implementation, and maintain it up-to-date.



- 23 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVZ
IFFCO's COMMENTS ON PROJECT IMPLZEMNTATION AND PZRFORMANCE
1.          AONLA COMPONENT
1.1         Achievement of Prolect Obiectives
1.1.1.      With the successful completion of the project, reserves of natural
gas are being used to produce fertilizer for the local market thus enhancing
GOIs objective of increasing agricultural productivity toward increased self-
sufficiency in food grain production.
1.1.2.      Project implementation cost was about US$ 125 million below the
appraisal estimate of US$ 633.1 million. The saving could be realized primarily
due to early mechanical project completion (i.e. 36 months against 45 months) and
commencement of commercial production (i.e. 42 months as against 48 months
estimated by the Bank) that in turn led to reduced interest during construction,
lower working capital etc.
1.1.3.      So far, annual capacity utilization has been above 100% and IFFCO
should have no problem of maintaining sustained utilization rates in excess of
100%.    Generally,  energy  consumption  has  also  been  better  than  the
contracted/guaranteed figures.
1.1.4.      Industrial relations during the project were good, and during the
entire construction period no man-hours were lost due to any industrial
relations/labour problems.
1.2.        Project Management and Execution
1.2.1.      IFFCO's experience gained while implementing similar projects at an
earlier stage at Kalol and Phulpur has significantly helped in project
implementation. The performance of the consultants was generally satisfactory.
1.3.        Environmental Aspects
1.3.1.      The selection of "Zero Effluent Technology" for the urea and ammonia
plants, aiming at recycle and re-use of waste water has significantly helped
maintain a clean and healthy environment.
1.4.        Benefits to Relevant Sectors
1.4.1.      The project has a positive impact on the economy of the region with
respect to employment, enhanced food production, higher living standards, and
technology transfer.
1.5.        Bank Role
1.5.1.      The Bank has helped ensure cost effectiveness through use of ICB
procedures and in overall project implementation arrangements.
1.5.2.      As earlier Bank experience has demonstrated the need for using more
conservative project implementation time estimates and proven technologies, IFFCO
combined its previous project experience with Bank recommendations and thus
managed to complete the project in record time and to operate it with high
efficiency.



- 24 -
2.          REHABILITATION COMPONENT
2.1.        IFFCO targeted the rehabilitation component at improving energy
consumption, pollution control and operational reliability at its existing plants
at Kalol, Kandla and Phulpur. Although the proposal for the component was ready
in July 1986, final approval by the Government of India was obtained only in
December 1988.
2.2.        Subsequently, some schemes had to be dropped and/or replaced by more
attractive project proposals to suit the Borrower's requirements. The Bank has
been accommodative and flexible in accepting new proposals during project
implementation.
3.          FINANCIAL ASPECTS
3.1.        Of the loan allocation of US$ 152 million equivalent, IFFCO utilised
US$ 106.72 equivalent and surrendered the balance. Loan disbursement by the Bank
was prompt and no difficulties were experienced in loan withdrawal.
3.2.        The loan has been disbursed in 43 different currencies.  IFFCO has
not been able to safeguard its liability which increased due to devaluation and
the convertibility of the Rupee, as it was unable to hedge the risk (through a
forward-booking mechanism) as the respective currency required for an installment
is intimated only six weeks before the due date.
3.3.        Bank disbursement is re-valued periodically under the currency
pooling system with the result that it is not possible to correlate the loan
outstanding with the currencies drawn and currencies repaid.   It would be
appropriate if a complete statement of currencies drawn by the loan closing date
would be marked-up by the Bank for the Borrower's reconciliation, indicating the
effect of revaluation on each currency, repayments made during the period and
amounts outstanding - currency-wise and in dollars equivalent.
4.          SUMMARY
4.1.        Overall, the Aonla component has demonstrated that it is possible to
efficiently execute a mega-project in India within budgeted cost and time
schedule, meet guaranteed energy consumption and achieve good operating
performance, provided good project management and effective project organization
with relevant past experience are furnished.
4.2.        Under the rehabilitation component and its successful completion, the
Bank has been very cooperative and flexible with regard to scope adjustments
required to ensure project viability.   Due to this approach, the projected
benefits of the schemes have been realized.



- 25 -
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
COMDENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF FERTILIZERS ON THE "PROGRAM OF INITIATIVES" AND
THE PERFORMANCE OF IFFCO UNDER THE WORLD BANK-ASSISTED
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT LOAN NO. 2729/30-IN
(December 1994).
1.          As per the Statement on Industrial Policy issued on July 24, 1991,
industrial  licensing has been abolished for the fertilizer industry.   An
entrepreneur is free 10 select technology, feedstock, plant location, project
execution   arrangements and financing.   For example, GSFC is expanding its
ammonia production capacity using technology from Linde. Technology from Kellogg
is being used to retrofit the Hazira plant of KRIBHCO. The expansion projects
of IFFCO at Aonla and NFL at Vijaipur are based on technology supplied by Haldor
Topsoe and Snam Progetti. Whereas natural gas remains the preferred feedstock,
ammonia/urea plants based on naphtha also are both under implementation and
consideration.
2.          As part of the liberalization measures, customs duty on import of
capital goods for new fertilizer plants and revamping of old plants has been
abolished w.e.f. September 23, 1992.
3.          The per capita and total agricultural subsidies in India remained far
below the levels prevalent in the developed countries, as shown in the table
below:
Country         US$ per Capita         Total (US$ billion)
Norway                950                         4
Switzerland           800                         5
Japan                 580                       74
EU                    420                      156
OECD                  410                      354
USA                   390                        91
India                   1.2                      1.1
(Source: Agricultural Situation and Fertilizer Demand Paper presented at 62nd IFA
Annual Conference, Istanbul, 9-12 May 5, 1994, by IFA Secretariat)
4.          Regarding energy consumption, there is a trade-off between capital
costs and energy required to produce 1 MT of ammonia. Beyond a particular point,
the marginal decline in energy consumption may not be justified by the additional
capital expenditure involved. For example, the new ammonia plant being set up
in Trinidad using the Kellogg Advanced Ammonia Process (KAAP) by FARMLAND
Industries of the US and Enron International CV and the National Gas Company of
Trinidad and Tobago is expected to consume 33 million BTU (more than 8 Gcal) of
natural gas per tonne of ammonia product. (Source: Fertilizer Week of 26-09-
1994)
5.          Regarding developing the international competitiveness of the sector,
while reducing the economic cost of production, it may be mentioned that at
present only urea is under price control. The difference between the sale price
of controlled fertilizers as notified by the Government and the cost of
production as assessed by the Government is paid as subsidy under the Retention
Price-cum-Subsidy Scheme (RPS) . Under the RPS, the retention price, which is the
cost of production plus reasonable return on investment as assessed by the
Government is fixed for each unit. In the case of urea, based on the latest.
notified retention prices for various units, the weighted average cost of
production per tonne of urea works out to Rs. 4888/-. This compares favourably



- 26 -
with the price of imported urea. As per the latest contract, the import of urea
is being contracted at US$ 202.5 C&F per tonne. However, while on a weighted
average basis, indigenous urea may be cheaper than the international price, the
cost of production in some of the new urea plants is much higher than the
weighted average price.   This is mainly on account of high capital related
charges which is roughly around 60% of the total cost.
6.          In the case of prices of decontrolled phosphatic fertilizers, since
the country does not have adequate reserves of phosphatic raw materials, nearly
95% of the requirement of phosphatic raw materials is met through imports.
Therefore, the cost of production is directly related to the cost of imported raw
material. In the case of DAP units, the variable cost is around 85% of the total
cost.
7.          On the issue of fertilizer subsidy, it may be mentioned that during
the period 1982-91, the prices of controlled fertilizers remained unchanged,
resulting in outgo of subsidy going up from Rs. 375.00 crores in 1981-82 to Rs.
4,389.06 crores in 1990-91. In order to contain the mounting subsidy bill, the
prices of controlled fertilizers were increased by 30% in July-August 1991.
Again, in August, 1992, all phosphatic and potassic fertilizers were removed from
the price control mechanism and simultaneously the price of urea was reduced by
10%. Lastly, the price of urea was again raised by 20% with effect from June 10,
1994. The outgo on account of subsidy during 1993-94 was of the order of Rs.
4,398.97 crores.  Though there may not have been any significant fall in the
outgo of subsidy, this has been mainly on account of increase in
production/consumption of fertilizers and this would have been much more, had the
measures to raise the price of fertilizers from time to time not been taken.
8.          Regarding efforts to improve pricing by modifying and rationalising
the retention pricing system, it may be mentioned that the policy parameters for
retention prices of controlled fertilizers are fixed once in three years. Over
the successive pricing period, various norms of RPS have been tightened with a
view to spurring the units to higher levels of efficiency. The major changes
related to capacity utilisation, plant. life, life of catalyst etc. Individual
units cannot realise the prescribed return of 12% on net worth, unless these
norms are achieved. Moreover, a number of cost elements are not allowed while
working out the retention prices.   For example,  higher inventory holding,
turnover tax, purchase tax, freight incurred on longer leads compared to
normative leads, cost of investment not related to requirement for production
facilities, cost over-run due to delay on the part of project authorities in
execution of projects etc.   The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Fertilizer
Pricing which went into the details of fertilizer pricing, noted that the norms
have been considerably tightened over the years and, therefore, did not recommend
any further tightening of these norms.
9.          With respect to distribution efficiency, it may be mentioned that at
present urea is the only fertilizer which is under price and movement controls
and, therefore, its distribution is covered under allocation given by the
Department of Agriculture & Cooperation. A "Total System Rationalisation Study'"
was assigned to RITES. They have given a draft report, but there are a number
of points which require moderation and reconsideration. These have been pointed
out to RITES and they are reconsidering these points before submitting the final
report. As far as the overall lead for all fertilizers is concerned, the same
decreased considerably to 908 km in 1992-93 as compared to 1010-1080 km range
till 1989-90. However, there was a marginal increase to 933 km in 1993-94. This
was attributable to the tight availability of urea during the year, when some
special movements had to be resorted to for taking care of the localised
shortages on account of unforeseen circumstances and consequent constraints in
indigenous production.  The overall lead for urea has, however, maintained a
decreasing trend.  From a level of 679 km in 1991-92, it has decreased to 655 km
in 1992--93. During these years, the average rail lead for urea decreased from



- 27 -
806 to 774 km. The normative lead for 1993-94 was 644 km (overall) and 741 km
(by rail). However, actual leads for urea have not yet been worked out. The
equated freights per tonne for urea during 1992-93 and 1993-94 were Rs. 293 and
Rs. 334 per tonne (in current terms) . If we take into consideration the increase
in the cost of transportation, there has not been any significant increase in the
equated freight.
10.         The details of targets and achievements of fertilizer production and
capacity utilisation during the period 1984-85 to 1992-93 as available with the
Department are different from those given in the World Bank report.   The
information available in the Department is enclosed (Annexure-I).
11.         The Aonla ammonia-urea plant has consistently performed at very high
levels of capacity utilisation and energy efficiency.   This is evident from
Annexure-II. At the same, IFFCO Aonla has contributed about 5% of the national
consumption of nitrogenous fertilizers for the past six years (see Annexure-III).
12.         Regarding  rehabilitation projects,  capacity utilisation of the
ammonia plant in the Phulpur unit increased from less than 88% before 1985-86 to
117% and 104%, respectively, in 1992-93 and 1993-94. The corresponding increase
in capacity utilisation for the urea plant was from less than 91% in 1985-86 to
123% and 109%, respectively, in 1992-93 and 1993-94. The decline in specific
energy consumption per tonne of ammonia and urea is given below:
S.No.      Product            Specific energy consumption in Gcal/MT of product
1985-86      1992-93       1993-94
1.         Ammonia                         12.34        11.04         11.46
2.         Urea                             9.69         8.21           8.65
The modification of the reformer and the rehabilitation of the converter
in the Kalol plant was completed in 1993-94 and their impact is yet to be
reflected in the annual results. Based on the figures available, the average
monthly capacity utilisation of the ammonia plant increased from 36% in the five
month period viz. April-August 1993 (before revamping) to 104% in the five month
period of November 1993 to March 1994 (after revamping) . For these periods, the
specific energy consumption per tonne of ammonia decreased from 10.20 Gcal to
9.32 Gcal.



- 28 -
Part II/Annexure-I
DEPAiTMENT OF FEITILIZERIS
Fartilizor Pruduction 6 Capacity Utilization - Target and Acievunzt
1984-85  1985-86  1986-87 1987-88  1988-89  1989-90 1993-91 1991-92  1992-93 1993-94
Capcity Utilization of Nitru"noras fErtilizers (%)
Taratu
All India                          73.2      67.0     75.6      79.7      76.5     85.9      86.7     89.1      90.3     91.4
Public Sector               63.3      64.9     67.0      68.5      70.2     75.1      75.1     71.0     73.7      73.5
Ichieved
a11 India                          74.4      70.3      79.1     77.6      85.2     82.8    65.6       68.5      88.0     83.9
Public Sector               60.2      55.9     65.4      66.1      71.1     66.7     66.3      69.0     69.1      67.4
Sick Units                  42.1      37.1     46.8      44.5      37.7     37.1     30.0      31.3     31.1      25.7
Viable Units                57.9      65.4     75.4      78.9      66.1     81.7      84.7     87.9      88.0     88.2
Coop. Sector               107.0      83.0     93.3    100.2    110.6    107.7   112.4   112.8    111.3    108.3
Private Sector              90.0      95.1     99.1       8.5      98.1     96.8   105.0    108.8    106.7        96.9
Fertilizer Production (N+P205) (Million Tonsos)
Targets
All India                          4.90      5.73     6.91      7.00      8.60     9.40      9.07   10.00    10.45    10.00
Public Sector               2.20      2.70     3.15      3.40      3.69     3.92     3.80      3.99     3.99      3.79
ichieved
111 India                          5.17      5.75     7.07      7.13      8.96     8.54    9.04    9.86        9.74      9.05
Public Sector               2.19      2.35     3.07      3.16      3.75     3.33     3.38    3.75       3.68      3.45
Sick Units                  0.54      0.48     0.60      0.65      0.55     0.54    0.44    0.46        0.45      0.37
Viable Units                1.65      1.68     2.47      2.51      3.20     2.79      2.84    3.29      3.23      3.07
Coop. Sector                0.87      0.94     1.45      1.49      1.89     1.87     1.95      2.08     2.02      2.00
Private Sector              2.11      2.45     2.55      2.48      3.32     3.34     3.71      4.03     4.04      3.59



- 29 -
Part II/Annwxur--II
CONPARIS0N OF CAPACITY UTILISATION (NITROQINOUS)
& INIRGY CONSUMPTION
(For natural gas plant)
ALL INDIA vs IFFCO Aonla unit
Canacitv utilisation of Nitrogenous Fertiliser plants (ursa
production) existina in 1984-85 (M)
88-89  89-90  90-91  91-92  92-93  93-94
All India                       80      83      86     --      85      --
Total Public Sector          64     60      58      --     58      --
Coop.Sector                  --    106    110       --    111      --
Priv. Sector                 --     98    106       --    107      --
IFVCO-Aonla                  98    114    120    117    112    125
Feedstock and oeray Conoumntion (Gcal/t NHJ
All India avg.               10.0   9.6    9.6    9.6    9.5    --
(natural gas based)
IFFCO-Aonla                  8.133  7.888  7.762  7.808  7.839  7.765



- 30 -
Part II/Annexure-III
IFFCO'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE CONSUMPTION OF
NITROGENOUS FERTILISERS IN INDIA
('000 t of Nutrient)
88-89  89-90  90-91  91-92  92-93  93-94
All India consumption    7,251  7,386  7,997  8,046  8,426        --
IFFCO-Aonla production  232.40 380.70 401.20 392.50 377.40 418.70
Total IFFCO's urea       697.60 808.50 854.70 815.40 815.90 831.60
production
IFFCO-Aonla's share of    3.20   5.15   5.02   4.88   4.48        --
all India production
(%)
Total IFFCO's share in    9.62  10.95  10.68  10.13   9.68
all India production
(%)
It can be seen from the above that IFFCO Aonla has contributed
around 5% and IFFCO as a whole about 10 of the national
consumption of nitrogenous fertilisers for the past six years.



- 31 -
PART III:       STATISTICAL INFORNkATION
1.     Bank GrouD oDprations in the F-rtilizer Sector
Loan Credit             Proiect Name          Yar ofStatus                               LA i-n
Ao,rovgl                                   gurlion
Credit 264-IN       Fertilizer Cochin     July 1, 1971     Closed: June 30, 1977             20.1
Completion: March 12, 1980
Credit 279-IN      Fertilizer Gorakhpur    Dec. 21, 1971    Closed: March 31, 1976           10.0
Completion% Sep. 9, 1976
Credit 357-IN       Public Sector         Jan. 30, 1973    Closed: March 11, 1977           58.0
Fertilizer Nangal                      Completion: Aug. 31, 1979
Credit 520-IN       Fertilizer Sindri     Nov. 26, 1974    Closed: Sep. 30, 1978             91.0
Completion: Dec. 22, 1981
Credit 481-IN       Fertilizer Trombay    June 18, 1974    Closed: Dec. 12, 1977             50.0
Credit 598-IN       Fertilizer Industry    Dec. 16, 1975    Closed: Dec. 31, 1982           105.0
Credit 1125-IN      Hazira Fertilizer     Mar. 31, 1981    Closed :June 30, 1988            400.0
Loan 1079-IN        IFFCO fertilizer      Jan. 07, 1975    Closed: Dec. 31, 1980            109.0
Completed: June 29, 1982
Loan 2415-IN        Madhya Pradesh        May 17, 1984     Closed: June 30, 1992            203.6
Fertilizer
Loan 2729/2730-IN    Cooperative Fertilizer  June 26, 1986    Closed: June 30, 1993         256.9
IFC                 Indian Explosives Ltd   1967                                 Loan:       8.6
Equity:       2.9
IFC                 Zuary Agro-Chemicals    1969                                 Loan:      15.1
Ltd                                                        Equity:       3.8
IPC                Deepak Fertilizer and   Nov. 13, 1979                         Loan:       7.5
Petrochemical                                              Equity:       1.2
Corporation
IFC                 Coromandel Fertilizer   1981                                 Loan:      15.9
Ltd
Total   1,35LU6
The Bank Group has been a major partner in India's effort to increase
fertilizer production. Total financial contribution of the Bank Group has
amounted to about US$1.4 billion. However, the Cooperative Fertilizer Industry
Loan approved in June 1986, was the last operation in the fertilizer sector --
it was designed to assist GOI in (i) expanding and increasing the efficiency of
fertilizer supply in India; (ii) develop and implement a system to improve
management of public sector companies; and (iii) assist in defining and
implementing a program of policy reform and subsidy reduction. In addition to
this loan, the Bank was envisaging to further assist GOI's fertilizer sector
restructuring effort by supporting: (i) a production efficiency-oriented
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation project; and (ii) a distribution efficiency-
oriented Fertilizer Distribution project. However, this program was dependent
on progress in achieving significant reforms on the major issues of subsidies and
production and distribution efficiency.  The reform measures proposed by the Bank
were considered too radical, and the sector policy dialogue between GOI and the
Bank largely ceased around 1987.



- 32 -
2.    Prolect Timetable
Date           Date             Date
Item                      Planned        Revised           Actual
- Project Identification                                                  FY 84
- Preparation Mission (i)                                                 04/85
- Appraisal Mission                    07/18/85        07/18/85     07/85-08/85
- Post-appraisal Mission (ii)                                       10/85-11/85
- Loan Negotiations                        01/86          02/86    04/86-05/86
- Board Approval                           03/86          04/86        06/26/86
- Loan Signature                                                       07/22/86
- Loan Effectiveness                    10/22/86                       10/20/86
- Loan Closing
* Loan 2729 to GOI                  06/30/92                        06/30/92
* Loan 2730 to IFFCO (iii)          06/30/92                        06/30/93
- Loan Completion (iv)                 12/31/91                   10/31/88 (for
the Aonla
Project)
Comments:
(i) This mission was organized in response to GOI's request for further
lending in the fertilizer sector, particularly for the Aonla project. Its main
purpose was to establish whether the Bank had a continuing role in the sector,
and if so, the measures that GOI should undertake as part of, or in parallel
with, additional Bank lending.
(ii) The purpose of the post-appraisal mission was to obtain updated and
complete project information from IFFCO, and to discuss with Government officials
the "Statement of Initiatives in the Fertilizer Sector", which was to be the
basis for the Bank to proceed with lending to the sector.
(iii) At IFFCO's request, the project original closing date was extended
to allow completion of the fertilizer rehabilitation component. The outstanding
schemes focused on energy conservation, pollution control and plant efficiency
improvements.
(iv) Completion, as defined in the Loan Agreement (as operation of the
manufacturing facilities included in the project for not less than 60 consecutive
days, at an average production rate per day of at least 80% of daily capacity),
was for the Aonla ammonia/urea plant at the end of October 1988.



- 33 -
3.   Loan Disbursements  (US$ sillion)
(i) Total Project
Cumulative Loan Disburement
Bank Pimcal Year
and Seoster                 A2nraixal        Revised                                Actual as
Endina                       gotizate       Nutimate    Profile   Actual            Of Estimated
1987    - Doe, 86                 11.2          16.3          3.2          16.3              146
- Jun, 87                74.3          35.9         10.9          35.9               48
1988    - Dec, 87                142.9          57.1         20.6          57.1               40
- Jun, 88               218.0         190.9         41.1         190.9               88
1989    - Dec, 88                244.9         205.0         71.9         205.0               84
- Jun, 89               268.0         229.5         97.6         229.5               86
1990    - DOc, 89                284.8         232.3        123.3         232.3               82
- Jun, 90               295.6         241.2        149.0         241.2               82
1991    - Dec, 90                299.6         242.6        169.6         242.6               81
- Jun, 91               301.3         252.2        190.1         242.6               81
1992    - Dec, 91                302.2         256.7        205.5         246.1               81
- Jun, 92               302.2         261.2        215.8         246.7               82
1993    - Dec, 92                              265.2        226.1         249.8               83
- Jun, 93                             269.2        236.4         254.5               84
1994    - Dec, 93                                           241.5         256.9               85
- June, 94                                         244.1
1995    - Dec, 94                                           249.2
- June, 95                                         254.4
1996    - Dec, 95                                           256.9
Project Total Disbursements
320
300-
280-
260 -
240-
220
200-
_180 
a
-160-
140
co120-
100 
80-
60-
40-
20-
1987               19189          19 91          1993           1995
1988           1990          1992           1994           1996
Bank FY
El Appraisal Estimates + Disb. Profile  Actual Disbursement
\ifdiab.wkl



-34 -
(ii) IFFCO'- Loan (US$ million)
CunlatlYe LOan Di.bure.ent
ZFCOo Loan                                             overnant Loan
Dank FLOa.l Year               Konla ComPonent                        Kababilitation  Component
and 5eater           AuDraiEal                    katual as *   AunraiGal               eatual as I         Appraisal
Eadina                Zutinate        Actual   Of x0t&nted         xstimate   actual  Of Estimated           Eutimate    Aotual
1987    - Do, 86           11.2          16.3           145.5                                                     0.0
- Jun, 87         23.2          35.9           154.7            0.9                                     50.2        0.0
1988    - Do, 87           40.1          57.1           142.4           2.6                                     100.2        0.0
- Jun, 66         62.9          73.4           116.7            4.9                                    150.2      117.5
1989    - Deo, 6           85.2          77.4            90.3           9.5                                                127.6
- Jun, 89        100.0          86.3            86.3          17.8                                                143.2
1990    - Do, 89          107.2         86.7             60.S          27.4                                                145.6
- Jun, 90        111.0          67.4            78.7          34.4          3.6           10.5                    150.2
1991    - De, 90         112.0           88.7            79.2          37.4         3.6             9.8
- Jun  91                       88.7            79.2          39.1          3.6            9.3
1992    - Do, 91                        Be.6             79.3          40.0         7.0            17.6
- Jun, 92                       88.8            7S.3                        7.7           19.3
1993    - Do, 92                        89.1             79.6                      10.4            26.1
- Jun, 93                       89.1            79.6                       15.2           37.9
1994    - Do, 93                        89.2             79.6                      17.5            43.6
IFFCO Loan Disbursement
Aonla & Rehabilitation Components                                 Government Loan Disbursement
120                                                             160
110                                                             150_
140/
100                                                             10
90 -1 20
809                                                            110
701                                                            1009
90-
60                                                              80
-50                                  A70
c0) 40-                                                          '    60-
30 -                                                            50S
40-
20 -30-
10-                                                             20-
o CI~                                                          10-
1987        1989          19,91      1993                     0-
1988        1990         1992        1994                 1987        1988         1989        1990
Bank FY
ElAonla - SAR Est. +Aonla - Actual Disb                          BloI         A      s   aonk   a -   ctaYDs
ORehab. - SAR Est. ARehab. - Actual                            IAna-SREt+ol      culDs



- 35 -
4.    Proiect Ilolesentation
4.1 AONLA Proiect
IUdi-tW                               IFTO Eshf                        ADDra;SI                      A&
,(rvsd)                   vimt
Zero Date                                                   Jamzary 8, 1985          October 1, 1984            January 8, 1985
Detailed Enginering Completed                                   April 1986             Febraary 1986              January 1987
Procurement of Equipment:
- All Purchase Orders Placed                                  April 1986           November 1985              September 1986
- Supply Received                                           January 1987            November 1986               January 1988
Civil Works Completed                                         January 1987                  July 1986                April 1987
Gas Contract with GAIL                                       June 30, 1987                                      August 20, 1991
Initial Gas Supply                                            July 31, 1987             July 31, 1987           March 24, 1988
Mechanical Completion                                       January 1, 1983              July 1, 198S           january 1, 1988
Commercial Production                                         July 15, 1988          October 1, 1988              July 15, 1988
Project Completion as per Schedule 2 of Loan                                           Dec. 31, 1991              October 1988
Agreement
Comments:
(i)   Gas supply became available about 8 months behind the original schedule
but only 2.5 months after mechanical completion.
(ii)  a detailed actual project implementation schedule, compared with IFFCO's
revised estimates, is presented in annex 2.
4.2 Rehabilitation Schemes
Appraisal estimates and actual implementation of the rehabilitation schemes
is presented in the chart below.
4.3 Kana-oment Study and Imoort Component
iuSatnW                            ADDrA    aEstimate                                                Ac
Agreement on Terms of Reference                                  June 1986                                         by mnid-1988
Initiation of Study                                         September 1986                                           April 1991
Study Completed                                              June 30, 1987                              Drft Report: Apr. 1992
Final Report: Oct. 1993
ll brs1Coemn
FuDl Dibburwmeme                                               by PY 1988                                         By June 1990



--  -  -  - -  -  -  - -  -  -  - -  -  - -  -  -  - -  -  - ------E---E--------         ----    --- ; 1 l - - l -       | i j  i 4 | | | 1
I   ~          ~~  I                                                               '[I    f|
d                                                                 3I
I  I 2~~~~~~~I ~~--                                     - -  - -  -   -
;       ;                ;            ;1 ;; ;   ;   ;                              1        ;
,   ae------ ----------            --- -- -         - ---  ------'--l--    -- - '-.---  -  l - --    - -
7| 1 "  1                       503         1 1              s w il tl                           I "   @  '
____    I __________  I                   I____   ___  I _______!__________ _I   I I 
.-------------------------------------   ----- --------- ----------- __._-                        ___--           t
-- ----  :--------- --1- --- --  -- -----  -------  -- --------  --  --- 7
_______________________________ _ -----  -----                     __  --_______________   --I-----I
- 9 -



- 37 -
5. Polsct Costs and Flnancina
A. Aonil Prolsct Total Cost
ApppSJL ESTIATEA           ffW's ElLnMSTEM AiCF L COSTS                % Cwge  S Chugs
barn      ban
Totl     FoS  F              TOdW              T        Lo1 Fo FD
Eqaert, Meume& Spam                              2222      48.0   174.9        20.4              242.7    41.1   201.6        8.9       15.9
FrIMgt Hwdlh&h urw                                29.1      6.3    22.8         252               25.0      LB    1i.4    (14.1)       (11.3)
eDudawdTamn                                       132      132     -            132               19.3    19.3    -          462        46.2
Sab-a            2662      67.5   197.7         250.8            267.0   e6.0   218.0         82        14.4
ULne old tgres g Swie                             322      15.6    ISA          25.7              30.8     2.4    26.1        (54       18.7
Project, MUieguwit&ikn ce                         14.6    13.9      0.9         132               16.4    10A    -           10.8       242
Lw,d& Sb  Dw.lpmmn                                 8.7     8.7    -              8.8              10.1    10.1    -          16.1       14.1
CMI Wods NdW bipkb                                43.8    25.1    18.7          58.4              46.7    42.9      2.8       4.3       21.7)
Edin & Coryrtubng                                 27A      23.0     4.4         29.4              17.1             17.1     (37.)      (41.8)
TownIi                                            182      167      1.5         24.5              22.8    228    -           253         (6es
Irrrucure                                          92      8.4      0.8         11.5              10.6    10.6    -          152        (7.8)
T=I B"  Coat                419.5   179.1   240.4         422.3             4402    1742    266.0        4.9        42
Fyi  Co nk       e                                 68      2.7      4.1         17.8             -        -       -
Prke x*qguie                                      381.    14.8    24.0          25.4
Tadl hald Ccot           4651    1961e   26s.5         468.8             4402    1742    266.0       (5.4)     (11.4)
W Okrg Col"                                       842      842      0.0         17.7              23.1    23.1    -          (72.)      30.5
irtered-f CafmSans,dOWerFmnddCoCbl/    83.8    20.9    e2.9                     49.3              44.1    44.1    -         (47.4)     (10.5)
TOTALF3W4Ch4GCUW                   633.1   301.7   331.4         5365              507.4   241.4   266.0    (19.9)        (5.2)
hIn lb Sw
APPRAISALESiMATES  WWs ESTIMATES    ACUAL COSTS    S%Chwg  S Ch
tun       from
Tod  La Fo                   Tadl              Tod  Load Faw bp IndF  FCO
Equrnwt, MSerId&Spwn                           2,97.7   024.0  2.273.7        2,7222           3,155.1    534.3  2,620.8      e.9       15.9
FrSig0tHmdh,g&hanom                              378a     8119   296.4         306.6             325.0   111.8   2132       (14.1)     (11.3)
EtrirDutkemrndTam                                171.6   171.6    -            171.1             2502    250.9    -          462        462
Sub-M           3,447.6   877.5  2,570.1      32c0.4           3,731.0   897.0  2,84.0        8.2       14.4
LUONc mi  rgeei  Savic                           41L6    205A    2132          334.1             3965     312    36.3        (5.s)      16.7
Prcject,mqunswt & neurc                          192.4   18.7    11.7          1711              2132    2132    -           10.8       242
Lw.d&SibtDwlcpent                                1131.   113.1    -            114.4             131.3   131.3    -          16.1       14.8
Cmi Wors mid thdIn                               869.4   326.3   243.1         7592              594.1   557.7    36.4        4.3      (21.7)
Emclan & Canmmmbr                                3562    299.0    572         3a22               222.3     o.o   272.s    (37.6)       (41.8)
Tmauh@                                           236.6   217.1    19.5         318.5             296.4   296.4    -          25.3       (6.9)
Irrruclur                                        119.1   1092      10.4        149.5             137.1   137.1    -          152        (7p8)
- - --    - - --    - - --    - - --           - - --    - - --    - - --    - - --   - -- -
TOW Be Cost PM)           5,483.5  2,32ss  3,1252        5,4e91           5,722.6  2,264.6  3,458.0      4.9        42
PhysiCa C   otWncie                               B8.4    361      53.3        231.4             -       -        -         -         -
Price Cortgnciee                                 504.4   192.4    12.0         3692              -       -        -         -         -
Ta hal_d Cot            6,046.3  2,558.8  3,480.5     6,090.5          5,722.6  2,2641   3,488.0     (5.4      (11.4)
WorkIrg Cep                                     1,094.6  1,094.1    -          230.1             30o.3   30o.3    -         (72e)       30.5
lriteresdngCahubdan&OterFhlwclCoatl/   10NA    271.7   817.7                   640.              573.3   573.3    -         (47.4)     (10.5)
TOTAL FlUACIN  IEQU               8,230.3  3,922.1  4.3082      8,961 .s         6,592   8,1382   3,488.0    (19.9)       (5.2)
aCr=  =      w  ====          ==as            ==sf    n=s   ===              ==w        fl==
1/in actual cots, Other Financial Cots include foreign exchange losses durng constructlon of th  project
V wl  oath US$ Ibaed on an aedxwg  race US$1 - Ra 13.0, in k i   Vwawregh.cwgsec cacAbd
frm aUM phukng of enpibures.
-a)



- 38 -
B. Relb_1 on Prole        o On miln Rs3
APPRAfSAL   ESTIMATES            ACTUt.L COSm             Ca
SCHEIES                 TYPE OF SCHM                                                                    Fn
Fsim    Loel  ToW            F m    Loaed    ToWl  Awrl
A. Ph urp Pw
Revamping of Prkmry Rformer             Ern. SavjProd. Improv    39.8    47.8   87.6          45.6    34.5    80.0         (8.7)
Ineteidnonf tkeaHy*rolymr               PoludonConlrol           4.4    10.0   23.4           14.6     4.9    19.5        (16.7)
Liquld E_bft OuatOuwuity /I             Polkio  Coar"              -      9.7    9.7                    8.2     8.2
Enrgy Survey                            Energy Saings            1.0      0.3    1.3           0.3      0.0     0.3       (80.7)
Anmoni Plant Equipnt Replacement        Opwrmod Need             2.3      3.2    6.0           2.2       -      2.2       (63.3)
ExistingfBoisrOperatlonalimpremewtel2   OperdonaitNoed             -     30.8   30.8            -       3.0     3.0
Syntel  Gm rytng wit MoWetir Sein       Ens. Sw,Prod. lmproe     8.3    17.6   25.9                    canoellcd
Inert Ga Geardion Pstw and Hyd. Storage    Produdion imprameu      -     13.1   13.1                   canced
Arnonia Stra  Tank                      Sety                    45.2    40.3   85.5           83.6    12.4    96.0          12.3
002 Compreaa Twbin                      Energy Swing                                          34.2     0.7    34.9
C02 Removal Syatwm                      Energy Swing                                          15.2    29.9    45.1
Convertr Roeait
(0) Repiping                          Enr. SwJProd. Improv                                  25.2    16.7    41.9
Of Remote Confrol Radbgraphy Cmra     Operadtone Need                                        0.7              0.7
(l) Dynm  Dada Maager                 Operatone Need                                         1.1     1.8      2.9
Sub-Wa Phubw Ps                                                101.5   1818    s.3s           z2     112.1   334.7         18.1
A. Kild Plea
Urn Plnt Rnmp kw Ernrgy Swings          Ens. Sr.SProd. lmprov.    7.1    10.*   17.9            -       1.9     1.9        0.4)
Primwry Reformm  Conveoon Zoe Md.       Enrgy Swing             12.0    10.6   22.6           24.0     7.0    31.0         372
Replment of Hedt Exchangr.             Ensgy Swng                 -      4.0    4.0           3.4       -      3.4        t5.
Presu  Enrgy Recovoery by Stm TwTbhe    Enwgy Swing              1.S      8.0    0.5              Canclbed
0usd Bed for Low Temperatue Shit        Ens. SwJProd. lmprosv      -      5.0    5.0              Caoled
Man Speromoter                          Enwgy Swng               1.4      Le     4.0              Cancoeed
Raw Wats Deealrntion                    Poluion Conrol          12.0    17.0   29.9               Canedb
Urn Plant Doeober Evwpor  Sysbtm        Polution Control         4.5      8.5   13.0              Canolbld
Urn Plant Deorber Modrifaton            Poluton Control            -      9.0    9.0              Cancelled
Lke Pril Coolng Syebm.                  Operationa Ned           4.0      7.9   11.9           1.8     9.0    11.4
Inspedon & Analyakd Equipment           Operaona Ned            11.1      8.9   20.0              Cwnclld
Equip_m Replacement
i) High Promie Cwrbanato Condenr        Opaoroal Need              -       -       -          39.5      5.7    45.2
i) CaalystH HdingReduction c heme       Energy Swing               -       -       -          14.2    13.3    27.5
II) Equipmen  Replcment                Operon  Ned                -       -       -          33.1     20.5    53.0
hv) Reformer Revamp-H                   Operational Need           -       -       -          86.4    24.2   110.6
vt) Microprocese-bnedWelingMachbne      Operaonal Ned              -       -       -           1.3     0.1      1.3
TdW Equpmned Peplacmwee                             46.1   2074  253A           174.5    53.    233.2          130)
Ammonia Sbrag Tank                      Safety                     -     50.0   50.0          64.8     0.0    64.8         23.0
Modoculr Seineand Rapiping Syn*els Loop Energy Sikng             7.2    22.7   29.9               Cancolbd
PSA-band Nitrogen Gnration P1st         Oprdone Need               -      5.0    5.0           1.3      1.5     2.8       (44.0
Urn Supergranul Plwit                   Operational Ned          9.8    40.0   50.7               Cancelld
Microprooeeaor-baod Interu mm           Operatonal Need             Now Scheme                 1.4      1.8     3.2
Conrter RetrdlJRepi%ng                  Ens. SwJProd. Improv.       New Scheme                23.0    21.8    44.8
Hydrolysw for LArn Plt                  Pllution Cordol             Now Schem                 27.6    11.1    38.9
Sub-AW Kol Plet                                                116.7   410.2  532.0         321.0   118.5   440.5          (17.31
K Kanca Pet
PipedReeswe Robr Modceions              Ens. SwJProd. Impos.    16.9    41.7  88.60               Cancelbd
Independent WeW Supply Schme            Operaional Ned          23.4    17.2  40.60               Cnelbd
New Product Storage, kggng and Handing   Opeaiona Need          13.0   116.2  123.20              Ccelld
Ammonia Sbrage Tank (5000 MT)           S                           Nw Schmwn                 91.7    17.2   108.9
Sub-tloW Vd 1                                                   63W*    175.1  228.4         01.7    17.2   106 9t3)
Tdol B~ Cost Es sAEm   lmo 1.044.A   27S  lIa M 1lS44
Phyaloe Coningenl                                               27.2    77.3  104.50
Prce ContngnmeWe                                                25.7   130.5  156.20
To l lr_neld Cod                                                24d      MASE 1"iSa         eso.    EM        RE           X"I
Intereet Duing Conaruc-In                                      282.0   161.0  443.00            -    117J  117.800        ff35
TCYTAL FNANCING REQUIED               00               0. 1.1412 JJ1174l        2m       M       1 014.71L
1/Wnckdee ReA.2I millbn o Uiquld effluetr Impreote hededwihownmdinge
2lbol Imprrovemnt woe mde trough ImpIeewon of rgy cheme reconeded by tho nergy may
3/ include Re.27 millin dlmned for Vi complIon of tio C02 remonvl cahem.



Rd Pfahd - CR Cad U.mmv
in mf    R)                                                   bnmUui UU
APPAI SAL  ESTMATES             ACTUAL COtSTS          Y         APRAWL EnATIe                 ALILC_
Fran                                                          FhnB
LoLad   Tom                          LoF       Tdl                         Load    TON      LFa               T      h
Pht*irPVi1I                                                  101.5   181.8  2633         2me6   112.1   334.7         181        7.8    14.0    21.8       9.4     4.6    14.0      Mg4)
Kald Pi                                                      116.7   4162   532.9        321.0   116S   440.5         (17.)      0.0    32.0    41.0      12.1     4.6    16.S      P9.*
Kmdkp*                                                        53    176.1  22a4           01.7    17.2   106.0        P)         4.1    13.5    17.6       &3      0.6      4.0    (77.4)
Tal KN Cad                                                   271.5   77a1 1,044.6         6.2   247.8   864.0         (154)     20       M0.5    80.4     24.8      0.7    34.5    (57.
Pli    Canlb. M                                               27.2    77.3  104.5                                               E2       6.       80        -        -       -
Price CaWnFcim                                                25.7   13D.5   12              -       -       -           -       2.0    10.0    12.0        -        -       -
T*l b_ d Coat                                                324.4   06.  1,3063          6362    247.8   84.0        (3)       26.0    765.    100.4     248       9.7    34.5     p6"
hdD.igGChniadm                                               2SZ30    101.0  443.0           -    117.8   117.8       (4)       21.7    12.4    S4.1        -       4.2     4.2    B7.
TOrAL FWS%NCN RE0UffED                                       WO4  1141. 1,74L        3      e Z     f   1i0i          NZ&    4 I                13 45    1Am        "        "      ZMa 
1/ hI Phiuke uhiMRion oa*6 to _k    bhgw,imwd w kahad:  RaA2 mnIan  twd   ant  a el h             _d   by rFCO
vIdh cintade; a Ran S mion to r _i dUal.  'a'n, hill   . vAh mi d. 1dkwig ti scamw Ihu d t rwrgy
awr.xwmid O) 8 rp i ooddI. C02 rmni aysm                    R27d mR.. m,.
2/nVing   idapprplm        cn odd    d Ra 13 pr US9
S/.m.g. _     g  id.adud aoordhg to phs.d m idkm:
Philpuw: Ra 23.7 pe US$
Kala: Ra.20LS pe US.
mt Tai nkTm    for Kalld id K1:iL R.27.5 pr US
Canpidaon Cattr C02 Raovl: RL 32 per US$



- 40 -
C. Project Fiancing (in mlNon US$)
As Planned at Annralsal
Soume                                      US$       %              US$          %
- The Aonba Project
Eauy
-GOI (1)                                 152.4   24.1             184.9      36.4
- Cooperatives                            34.6    5.5              20.9       4.1
- IFFCO Interral Resources                40.0    6.3              19.2       3.8
Total Equity                          227.0   35.9             225.0      44.3
Lona-tefn Debt
- World Bank                             112.0   17.7              89.1      17.6
- OECF 1/                                126.8   20.0                -        0.0
- Dervnark 1/                              6.0    0.9                -        0.0
-llalv 1/                                 18.0    2.8                -        0.0
- GOI                                     85.4   13.5                -        0.0
- Indian Financing InsiutIons               -      -              193.3      38.1
Total Long-tenm Debt                  348.2   55.0             282.4      56.7
Intemal Cash GenratIon of the Propct       57.9    9.1                 -         -
TOTAL FINANI      NG FOR AONLA PROJECT    91    i1         0 5&
- The RohabNlttion Prolect
Long-term Debt
World Bank                                  40.0   29.7              17.7      45.7
G01                                         12.7    9.4                -         -
Local Bonowlngs                            81.8   60.8                 -         -
OPEC Fund 3/                                  -      -               3.7        9.6
Total Long-temm Debt                  134.5  100.0              21.4      55.3
IFFCO Internal Resources                      -      -              17.3      44.7
TOTAL FINANCING FOR THE
REHABIUTATION PROJECT                     19u   10                  Ka 97
Notes
1/ these oans wero obtained by GOI, but tramnserrd to IFFCO as equity.
2/ Includes Rs.27 million estimated to be requird for the competin of the C02 removal shome in Phulpur.
3/ from fth initlal OPEC Loan of US$7 milIn, totl disbursements to GO
anounted to US$6.36 million. Howvr, according to IFFCO, only
US$3.73 million (equivaent to Rs.102.5 million) wer relnt to IFFCO.



- 41 -
D.    Bank Financing
Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in US$ million equivalent)
Catecgory                                   BAR                            Revised
Estimates                                                       Actual
09/01/1990    10/08/1992    01/08/1993
I.  The IFFCO Loan (Ln. 2730 IN)
(1)    Aonla Ammonia/Urea Plant
(a)   Equipment, Materials,
and Spare Parts
(Including Supply and              85.000          B0.600         80.600          79.400           79.270
Erection Contracts)
(b)  Technical Services                  12.000          10.400          10.400         10.400            9.7B4
(c)   Unallocated                        15.000           -               -               -
Sub-Total Aonla Plant                  112.000          91.000          91.000          89.800          89.054
(2)    Rehabilitation
(a)   Equipment, Materials,
and Spare Parts
(Including Supply and              29.000          26.000         17.000          17.000           16.898
Erection Contracts)
(b)   Technical Services                  2.000           1.260           1.260          1.260            0.771
(c)   Unallocated                         9.000           -               -              -                -
Sub-total Rehabilitation                40.000          27.260          18.260          18.260          17.669
Component
Sub-total IFFCO Loan                   152.000         118.260         109.260        108.060          106.723
Cancelled on March 31, 1989                                   7.000           7.000          7.000            7.000
Cancelled on September 1, 1990                               26.740         26.740          26.740           26.740
Cancelled on October 8, 1992                                  -               9.000          9.000            9.000
Cancelled on January 8, 1993                                                                 1.200            1.200
Undisbursed Balance  (i)                                                                                      1.337
Total Cancelled from IFFCO                              33.740          42.740          43.940          45.277
Loan
II. Government Loan (Ln 2729 IN)
(i)    Fertilizer and Related                                                                            150.000
Raw Materials                     150.000
(ii)   Consultants' Services               0.200                                                           0.200
Sub-total Government Loan           150.200                                                         150.200
Total Bank Financing for the                302.200                                                        256.923
no, eCt
Comments:
(i)   The undisbursed balance of US$1,336,715.03 from the IFFCO loan (Loan
2730 IN) was cancelled on November 17, 1993.
(ii)  A total of US$45,276,715, or about 30% of the total IFFCO loan, was
cancelled -- Bank financing was reduced by US$22.9 million (about
20.5% of the original loan allocation) for the ammonia/urea



- 42 -
component, and by US$22.3 million (about 56* of the original loan
allocation)  for  the  rehabilitation  component.    However,  the
Government Loan was fully disbursed before the original closing
date.



-43 -
6.    Proiect Denef4ts
6.1    The Aonla Proiect
A. Direct fmefits
Ul8       DM0        9019       I11=       9219        MM19      Vn1       7
IL
1. Procd  _    bUds                       
0 Amwonia ht
-Prductio(thusandtpy)        296.3     473.2       519.2      4U.5       413.2      5273      490.9      445.5
- Capcity Uilizai  (%)         94        106        117         110        10        11        110       100
- Specific Total Energy      8.133     7.933       7.762      7.318       7.139     7.765     7.765      7.765
Conmumrptiao (Cealion) 2/
- On-sream Days pot Year      224        349        343         323        335       361        340       330
- Cumulated Productin        339.4     312.6    1,331.8      1,820.3    2,303.5   2,U30.1
(tbausd lons)
* 'JzPd
- Productio  usand toes)     503.2     324.0       3A.4       349.6      816.S    906.4       796A       726.0
- caaity Utilizaon (%)         93        114        120         117        112       125        110       100
- Ovell Specific Enry        6.468     5.943      5.717       5.752      5.325     5.715      5.720     5.720
Consumption (Gcal/to)
- On-iram Days:
Ur 1                       217       325         327        322        323        344       330        330
UIrea 1                    214       335        329         322        318        356       330        330
- Cumulative Aonla           556.1    1,380.1    2,248.5    3,098.1    3,914.9   4,321.4
Production (thousand torn)
- TOsl FFCO Urea             1,510     1,750       1,L50      1,765       1,766     1.300
Prduction thand tpy)
- PrductionShameofAona         33         47         47          43         46        50
2. VM
Uma Sales fron Aonla         269.1     794.6      943.3       963.1       357.0     827.5
(thousand ton)
Cumulative Sale from         269.1    1,063.7    2007.5      2970.6    3,827.6   4,655.1
Aoala (tousad tons)
Total Ura Sales of IFFCO     1,240      1,300      1,940      1,950       1,810     2,010
Shar of Aoln in Sal            22         44         49          49         47        41



- 44 -
S. IFFCO's Markedna Prourm for Aorda and Markeina Share. of ih. Plnt In Ania's Mwrkot
(Thaouad Tons)
87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93194
IFFCO's Tolal Saj of Lka
Saes fom Aonb                                0.0    278.1    794.7    961.8    963.1    856.9    827.5
Saes tom PhlipIr                           403.6    514.0    576.2    657.0    574.4    578.7        n.a
Sales tomn Kakol                           357.3    461.4    480.2    372.8    396.8    366.2        n.a
Imports                                    58.0      41.0      5.3      11.5      1.8       3.8      n.a
Total IFFCO Utr Sala                      818.9  1294.5  1.808.4  2.003.1  1.9S.1  1.805.S  2,010.0
Shwe of Aona (%)                              0       21        44       48       5Q        47       41
IFFCO's Side   Urek In Aona's Market
Uttr Pradmh
- Sale fom Aonla                             -     152.1    450.3    572.2    743.3    587.9        n.a
- Saes tom Phuptx                         188.0    204.2    202.5    227.5    133.5    148.0        na
- Sales tomn Kal                           18.6     29.7      0.3       1.9      0.5      0.5       n.a
- Saleafom Inports                         3.6       5.0      3.2       7.9     10.1      3.1       na
Toal IFFCO Ukr Sale In the Slat    210.2    391.0    656.3    809.5    887.4    739.5         n.a
Share In IFFCO's Sals In the Sate M%)
- Aonla       0.0      38.9     68.6      70.7     83.8     79.5       n.a
- PhtApLz    89.4      52.2     30.9     28.1      15.0     20.0       na
- Kalol       8.8       7.6      0.0      0.2       0.1      0.1       na
Puniab
- Salefrom Aonla                             -      55.3    208.2    271.5    149.7    167.7        n.a
- Sales fom Phlipur                         2.7     15.4      0.6       1.6      4.2        -       n.a
- Sal"sromKa lo                           90.1      24.5      1.4      14.8     97.0      55.4      na
-SalesfromImports                          19.6      7.8      1.7       2.4      3.6      0.3       na
Tdal IFFCO Uke    rSale. In the StIt   112.4    103.0    211.9    290.3    254.5    223.4     n.a
Share in IFFCO's Sale. In the Slate
- Aonh        0.0      53.7     98.3      93.5     58.8     75.1       n.a
- PhLApw      1.3      15.0      0.3      0.6       1.7      0.0       n.a
- Kakl       42.9       6.3      0.2      1.8      10.9      7.5       n.a
Harva
- SaesfromAorda                              -      31.9     79.3      89.5     57.9     89.5       n.a
- SaIs tom Phdptu                          0.1       1.8        -        -        -         -       n.a
- SaW"fomKaklol                            33.0     32.5      1.3      11.1     31.7      39.2      na
- Sas from lportB                           3.7      6.4      0.1       1.2      3.0        -       n.a
Totl IFFCO Ure Sale. In the Slh t   36.7      72.6     80.7    101.8      92.6    128.7       n.a
Share In IFFCO' Sale. In the Ste (9%)
- Aonha       0.0      43.9     98.3      87.9     62.5     69.5       n.a
- Phulpur     0.0       2.5      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       n.a
- Kalo       15.7       8.3      0.2       1.4      3.6      5.3       n.a
Tal  loIFFCOIn Aona Main Market    SS9.A A                   H      1.201J 8 1J234.5 1J091f8        na
Sale In oth  Slate from Aon                  0.0     38.8     56.9      28.6     12.2      11.8      na
SBat. Sal. In % ot Talal Sai. tom Aonha M%
- Ultr Pradesh                               -       55        57       59        77       69       n.a
- Punjinb                                    -       20        26       28        16       20       na
- Haryana                                    -       11        10        9        6        10       nA
- Othr Slate                                 -       14         7        3         1        1       n.e



- 45 -
1/ Production in 1988/89 is from the date of commercial production, on July 15,
1988. During commissioning, 42,525 tons of ammonia and 52,851 tons of urea were
produced.
2/ Energy consumption includes feedatock and fuel.
CoK22at'
(a)   At appraisal,  it was assumed that the project would start comercial
operation in January 19901 and capacity utilization was estimated at 65%
in the first twelve-month operating period, 80% in the second period, and
95% from 1992/93 onwards.
(b)   In 1993/94, the Aonla plant was awarded first prize of excellence in
energy conservation and management for the period 1990/91 to 1992/93 by
the Ministry of Power.



- 46 -
B. Economic ImDact
1.    Economic Rate of Return: Based on assumptions presented in para. 2 below,
cost and benefit streams for calculating the economic rate of return are
presented in Annex 3-2. The base-case economic rate of return was re-estimated
at 12.2%, which is lower than the 17.1% estimated at appraisal.   Results of
sensitivity analyses are summarized below:
ApDraisal
Economic Rate of Return         Current (Nov. 1992)          Estimate
(%)                    (%)
Base Case                                    12.2                   17.1
Project Implemented in 48 months                                    19.2
Variable Costs up 10%                        11.1                     -
Variable Costs down 10%                      13.1                     -
Production Costs up 10%                      11.0                     -
Revenues up 10%                              15.2                     -
Revenues up 5%                               13.7                     -
Revenues down 10%                            8.9                    13.6
Capacity Utilization up 5%                   13.3                     -
Capacity Utilization down 10%                9.9
Capacity Maintained @ 110% until             12.4
year 2000/01
2.    Assumntions used in the ERR Analysis
(a)    CaDital Cost:   Total actual installed cost of the project as
estimated by IFFCO is Rs.5,723 million (equivalent to US$440.2 million),
excluding interest during construction and working capital. The economic cost
of the project investments are based on financial costs, after deducting taxes
and duties.   A standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8 was applied to local
currency costs, as at appraisal. All costs were brought to constant FY 1990/91
terms, based on actual inflation rates (Wholesale Price Index-WPI) and phasing
of expenditures. In FY 90/91 terms, total actual economic capital cost of the
project is US$534 million. Plant operating life is assumed to be 12 years.
(b)   Revenues:   Calculations and projections of economic prices of urea
are presented in Annex 3-1 in 1990/91 constant terms. They are based on Bank
projections of international FOB-Europe prices of bagged urea, plus ocean freight
(US$35 per ton), handling, port charges, storage and losses costs (US$14
equivalent per ton), and a domestic transport differential of Rs.275 per ton,
equivalent to US$15. It was assumed that all ammonia would be used for urea
production.    Until  1993/94,  actual  production  levels  have  been  used,
subsequently, it was assumed that the plant would have a capacity utilization
rate of 110% until 1997/98, and of 100% afterwards.
(c)    Operatina costs:   the economic value of natural gas is assumed to
be equal to its fuel oil equivalent value, based on calorific value.   The
international price of fuel oil is expected to move in line with Bank projections
of international crude oil prices. Calculations and projections of the economic



- 47 -
value of gas are presented in Annex 3-1. Economic costs of utilities (such as
power and water), labor and overhead are derived from financial costs by
deducting taxes and applying a SCF of O.8.
3.          Coments: The ERR is now estimated at 12.2% and is lower than the
base case of 17.1% estimated at appraisal. Currently projected economic values
of natural gas and urea are both substantially lower than estimated at appraisal.
However, the economic value of gas is not low enough to compensate for the lower
economic value of urea. Appraisal estimates and revised economic and financial
projections compare as follow:
Economic and Financial Prices of Gas and Urea
Year      Economic Price- Apvraisal  Actual Economic   Actual Financial
Estimates                Price               Price
(1985 US$)   ('90/91 US$)    ('90/91 US$)        ('90/91 US$)
Gas Prices
- 1990/91        98            143              97                 146
- 1995/96       131            191              66                 135
Urea Prices
- 1990/91       270            394             221                 229
- 1995/96       286           417              187                 201
About 70% of natural gas is used in the country's western part by the
fertilizer and power sectors. In case of shortage, the most logical scenario
would be to produce power from fuel oil. Therefore, the marginal value of gas
would remain its fuel oil equivalent.



- 48 -
C. Financial ImDact
1.    Financial Rate of Return:  The project financial rate of return (FRR) is
estimated at 9.8%, slightly lower than the appraisal estimate of 11.8%.  The
actual price of natural gas is slightly higher than appraisal estimates, but the
urea retention prices are much lower than those projected at appraisal. However,
these differences are partly compensated by: (i) higher rates of actual capacity
build-up and capacity utilization-- more than 110% compared with 95% estimated
at appraisal; (ii) a shorter implementation period; and (iii) lower capital costs
of the project. Financial cost and benefit streams for the base case, which were
calculated using prices in constant 1990/91 Rupees, are presented in Annex 3-3.
The results of the sensitivity analysis, compared to appraisal estimates, are
summarized below:
Financial Rate of Return               Current Estimates  ApDraisal Estimates
(%)                  (e)
Base Case                                     9.8                  11.8
Project implemented in 48 months                -                  14.0
Variable Cost up 10%                           7.3                  10.4
Variable cost Down 10%                        12.1                  13.1
Production Costs up 10%                       6.4
Revenues up 10%                               14.6
Revenues Down 10%                             4.2
Capacity Utilization up 5t                    10.8                   -
Capacity Utilization down 10%                 7.8                  10.2
Capacity Maintained at 110% until             9.9                    -
end of Project life
2.    Assumvtions used in the Financial Rate of Return Analysis
The financial rate of return has been calculated using prices in 1990/91
constant Rupees. Revenues are based on retention prices as projected by IFFCO
on the basis of its current retention price, actual project operating costs
(1990/91 and 1991/92), and the present retention price formula.    The urea
retention price is fixed for pricing periods of three years by the Fertilizer
Industry Coordination Committee (FICC) office attached to the Department of
Fertilizer of the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, for individual producers
on the basis of: (i) the type of feedstock; (ii) 12% post-tax return on share
capital and reserves employed in the production of urea; (iii) plant capacity
utilization of 80% in the first year of operation, 90% from the 2nd to the 1oth
year, and 85t from the llth year onwards; and (iv) variable and fixed costs based
on standard rates,  norms  and actual prices  of  inputs.    Retention price
calculations and projections compared with appraisal estimates are presented in
Annex 3-1. Current urea retention price projections for the project are much
lower than appraisal estimates-- appraisal estimates were based on 80% plant
capacity utilization,  as was the norm then.   In addition,  the following
assumptions were made: (i) the price of gas was projected according to the
recommendations of the Kelkar Committee up to January 1995, and thereafter
maintained constant; (ii) plant operation at 110% of capacity from 1994/95 to
1997/98 and at 100% of capacity thereafter; (iii) 10% increase in real terms for
salaries; (iv) operating life of 12 years, as at appraisal; and (v) recovery at
the end of project life of working capital and of a residual value estimated at
10% of depreciable assets.



- 49 -
6.2 The Rehabilitation Component
A. Direct Benefits
1. Plant Production and Caoacity Utilization
85186   86187   87/88 S88I9   89190    90191         91192    92193       93194
PHULPUR PLANT
* Ammnorfi Pa
- Production (hound tpy)    261.5   278.5   264.1   254.2   319.9        330.0    295.4    346.9        308.8
-CapacityUtilization(%)        88       94      89     114      108        111       99       117         104
- Overa Specific Energy     12.34    11.72   11.56   11.04    10.95      10.87     11.29    11.04       11.46
Consumption (Ocal/toc) 21
* Ure Pi n:
- Production Touanad        450.0   482.1   446.9   444.8   546.2        590.0    506.2    607.0        540.5
tons)
-CapacityUtilization( )        91       97      90     120      110        119      102       123         109
- Overl Specific Energy      9.69    9.08    9.06    8.39      8.19       7.91      8.44     3.21        8.65
Consumption (Ocal/ton)
KALOL
Anmmonia 
- Production  housand                290.3   288.1   243.5   283.0      294.5    324.3    261.4         279.7
tons)
-Capacity Utlization(X)                97       96     108       94        98       108        87          93
- Over  Specific Energy               9.77   10.14    9.54     9.88       9.94      9.57   10.316        9.86
Consumption (Goal/ton)
*CUmP                                               1,240    1,800     1,940     1,950    1,810        2,010
- Production (Thouand                421.9   405.2   345.9   375.8       388.5    432.1    361.0        378.6
tons)
- Capcity UtiizAtion(X)                106     102     116       95        98       109        91          96
- Overall Specific Emergy             6.78    7.05    6.64    6.97        7.01      6.72     7.29        6.69
Consumption (Gcal/ton)
Notex2
1/ Production for 1985/86 to 1987/88 is from July I to June 30. Strting Apri 1, 1989, the fiscal year was changed to April I to March 31.
2/ Production for 1988/89 is from July 1, 1988 to March 31, 1989.
3/ Energy consmption includes feedstock and fuel.



- 50 -
B. Status and Economic Benefits of the Rehabilitation Sub-Proiects
The status of the rehabilitation sub-projects, their benefits, actual costs
compared to appraisal estimates, and when possible an estimation of the ERR are
presented in Table 4 below. All the implemented rehabilitation sub-components
whose  benefits  are  quantifiable  and  generally  the  result  of  efficiency
improvement and energy savings, have an ERR between 231 and 110%. At appraisal,
a range of 20% and over 40% was estimated for these sub-projects. The ERR's were
calculated from the savings as estimated by IFFCO and are based on a two-year
implementation period and a ten-year operation project life. Other benefits are
intangible and include the reduction of the environmental impact through the
reduction and improvement of effluents, increased safety and increased
reliability of the plants.



tats and Bemett _      th Reh_btlbtion Sub-rSect
Cct               a I R
Tyne of Sa_e             (million Ru.)        Anume              (SIENER -                                                             21WAI
KotL  hAteL  jhf                          t  bl                                                               (s d av1lI
E__n                  (million Re.)           Eet_tee
PHILPUR PLUtT
Revamping of Primery Rafcmw         Energy S g A Produtn           87e        80.0           40.0       40.0      62.0   10% Increase In NH$ outpu, equvalent         Completed
Improvnme nt.                                                                         b 4,600 tpy d ure.
Inetalalon  dUrea Hycrolye_r        Pollution oontrol              234         19.5           84        65.5      43.0   Reduction In final SquLd effluent by         Completed
about 800 m3/day. Thl* amount Is
oycld to th coolng towr.
Uquid Etilun,t. Redution &          Poeiion oontrol                 9.7        82              -          -               Improvement I liquld etuenbt                Completed
Improvement                                                                                                               Implemented with own tun de.
Energy Surny                        Energy svinge                   1.3        0.3               Idem Boier               Tho spit noznl soheme rommeonded by         Equipment Is under
the oonsutnt reulbed In benete of RseD5 m Hilon   prourerment for th
per yew. Oporatlonel bent we-              recommended Improved
aleo obtaind.                               elotonio oontrol
Anmonm   Plant Equipmont Roplacement OpertEnal need                 6.0        22             2*8       63.0   over t0   Reducoon hI plant shut down time.            Completed
Exiedtng Bolb Opwationrl Improvemont Operational ned               30.8         3.0           3.5       974       22.0   Purchase of new ooal mile ws                 Completed
cancelled, Imprrme nt
wee obtained through
Implemontation of
recommendations of the                                                         J
energy oonsuiant.
Syntheeis Gee Dryig with Moloular   Energy envng & produotin       25 9                                           29.0                                                Canoeled
Seins                              Improvement
Inert Gs Gneration Plnt end         Production Improvement          13.1                                                  No iongr viable, due to iow oost of         Canceled
Hydrogen Storage                                                                                                          nitrogen
Ammonia Stige Tank                  Selety                         65*        959             na                          lncmeead misty and opeatonal                Oompleted
flxebllty
CO2 Compreeor Turbine               Energy saving                  Now         349           60.0      114.0              Reduction in steenoon-                      Completed
eumption by 16 t/r.
C02 Removal Sysism                  Energy eawing                  New         45*           13.0       23.1              Atr oumpletion, wi                          To be oompleftd In
result In svngs d                           1995.
14 tph of iow prsesur
and 7tph d high presur stem.
Converer Reotai                     Energy sving & production      New         41A           44.0       75.0              As In Ksol, a eing of                        Completed
(a) Repiplng                      Improvemert                                                                            272 Moal Is projotd
when the
current problwm In th
chilr of the yn. ioop Is solved.
(b) Remot Operated Radiography     Operational need                New         0.7            ne                         Health hard le reduced                       Completed
Camera                                                                                                                whil scAnning weld joint.
(a) Dynamio Data Manager           Operetionl need                 New         29            n.e                         Improved diagnostic.                         Completed
monitoring and maintenance
of rotating machines.



Stabus and Bonelfte c tth RehabIlitstion Su b-probectb
Costa             Actua             IRAi
Tue. at Shmoe            (millon Rs.)        Annrul             (S)                            SENERTS                                tTA1TUS
Awsrat_I      M )        Sw             Acb.l Aratal_                                                        (Asd oay 10"6
Eadtrnote             (million Re.)            ESma
KCALOL PLNT
Urea Plant Revenping for Energy     Energy eoving & produotion     17.9         1.9           6.0      181.0      44.0   Swing ot 0 tph d low pressure steam.         Completd
Swvings                             Improvement
Prlmary Reformer Convection Zone    Energy saving                  22.8       31.0           20.0       51.0      22.0   Swing ol about 2000 ci per hour.             Completed
Modiication.
Repiacenenotn   teat Exchenger.     Energy Sving                    4.0         3.4           1.1       26.0      38.0   Hietreooveryofabout 020 Mos per             Completed
hour, In addition to lower oooling townr toad
Pressure Energy Recovery by Steam   Energy Sving                    0.5                                                   No longer attective when Ga approved        Canciled
Turbine                                                                                                                   mis Investment, due to higher oost In Rupees.
Guard Bed for Low Temperature ShIft    Energy eaving & production   5.0                                                                      Idem                     Canoelled
Reactor.                           improvement
Mess Speoorometer                   Energy SwIng                    4.0                                                                      Idm                      Canoelled
Raw Water Desnahtion                Pollutlon oontrol              20.9                                                   Other,. mo  economic, solutions were        Canoled
Implemented thfrough the wter egency.
Urea Plant Desorber Evaporative     Pollutlon controi                .0                                                                                               better rpleced by th te
System.                                                                                                                                                               the hydrollre
Urea Plant Desorber Modifiation     Pollution control               9.0                                                                                                          Idam
Urn Prtfl Cooling Systm             Operetlanal need               11.9        11.4           nMe                         Improved product quality end lose caking.   Completed
inspeon & Analyse Equipment         Operational nwed               20.0                                                   No longer etirective when GCX *pproved       Cancelled
this Imvestment, due to higher rosis In Rupees.
Equipment Reciacoment                                             253.5       243.8
0 High Presure Cerb mata            Operetlxna neod                 n.a       48.9            n.e                         Reduction In down tine end improved         Completed
Condenser                                                                                                                 relabillty of the uree plant.
1i Catalyst HeaItng/Reduction       Energy moving                   n.s       28.8           11.0       30.6              Stlrt-up tine will be reduced by 8          Completed
days when otalyst Is recharged,
resulting In additon In 5 million Meal
saving.
IIi)Equipment Replaocment           Operational need                n.e        53.7           ne                          Reductin in down tinme*nd improved          Completed
reliability ot the urea plant.
tv) Reformer Revemping              Operatkionl need                n.e       111.1           n.a                        Increased life a reformer tubas end lower     Completed
pressure drop In retormar. WIth more
catalyst volume, the plant oan be opersted
at higher front end ioad.
v) Mioroprooe Based Weighing       Opeational need                  n.         1.3            ni Betbtr oontrol d ure begs weIght                                     Completed
Bagging Maohines.                                                                                                         resulting In le customers oomplaints.



Statu and BnctiH of t,. RedtabWteon Sub-prohcet
OoeS.             Ackal               IRR
TWe of Scheme             (million Re.)       uAntet                (%)                             BENEFITS                                ITAMS
Acalw i       Aaal                       Atua  Apprale                                                           (As of Mad 1ttd
E_t_see                (milion Ra.)             Esbute
Ammonia Storage Tank                S8aty                             50.0       64.6             n.a                         Incr easd safety and operation flexibility.    Completed
Modeculer Seine end R'piping         Energy savIng                    19.9                                             20.0                                                 Wes replaced with the
Synthole Loop                                                                                                                                                               the converter retrofit echeme
PSA Baed Nitrogn Generation Plant    Operatinal neod                   5.0         2.6            n.e                         Increased operation rallablitty d              Completed
Inert Ges plant.
Urna Supergrenules Plant             Operatonal ned                   60.7                                                     wes no more ettractiv when GO( approved       Cancelled
the Inivestment.
Mlcroprocesoor-basad Instruments     Operatonal need                  New          3.2           nMo                          Batter control d plant operation.              Completed
Converts Reroti & Repiping           Energy/prod eving                New         45.0           43.7       69.6              2.75% Inrease In NH3 oonversion In             Completed
Improvement                                                                              the converter, resulting In an energy
saving d 272 Moal/toto Ammonia.
Hy&olyser for Urn Plant              Pollution control                New         40.7            2.6       (3.0)             Reduction In final liquid efiuent.             Comphlted.
This smount Is recycled to the oooling
tower; results In saving d water, In addition to
tower nitrogen In the disohlrge.
KANDLA PLUNT
Ppoe Reatorr  NPK Plant ModifcatIons   Energy saving & production   Stt6                                                                                                   Caonelld, not yet
Improvement,                                                                                                                           approved by 001
Independent Water Supply             Improved operetion               40,0                                                    the Gujaret Water Supply and Sawerage          Canrclled
Board could Increaso water supply
et a cost well below the cost of doesalination.
New Product Storage, Bagging end     Improved opration               129.2                                                     A oonsultent study ooncluded that the         Cancelled
Handing                                                                                                                        scheme wee no longer viable at
current aleve of production.
Ammonma Siwge Tank (5000 MiT)        Sehty                            New        10005      n.o                               Increased safely end operational               Completed
flexibility ten.k
eroawn



- 54 -
6.3 Targets and Achievement under the Proaram of Initiatives
1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
A.  Capacity Utilization of Nitrogen Fertilizer
Plants existina In 1984/85 M%\
Tarods
-Al Indha                74        75        76       78       80        82
-Ptublic Sectr           60        61       63        65       69        73        -         -        -
Achleed
-Al hdis                 74        65        -         -       80        83        86        -        85
- TaolP Puicbecbr         60        -        -         -       64        60        58        -        58
* Sick Uris              42                                     33       30                 27
*OIw Unis                73                                    80        78        -        81
-CoopeatSector                     93        -                          106       110               111
- Prhvea Sector                    77                                    98       106               107
B. Fertilizer Production (Million Tons of Nutrient)
Taraf
- All dia                3.8      3.8       3.9      4.2       4.1      4.2
-Pubiklc Scor            1.8      1.8       1.9      2.0       2.1      2.2
Achleved
-A .inx                  3.8
-bToIl Public Swcr       1.8       1.8                                  1.8       1.7                2.1
k Skk Urdt               0.5                                   0.4      0.4                0.3
01isr Unr                1.3                                   1.4       1.3                1.8
- Cooperathiv Soctr               0.6                                    1.3      1.3                1.3
- Privet Sector                   0.8                                   1.1       1.2                1.2
C. Feedstock and Eneray Consumptlon (million Kcal por ton of Ammonia)
- Natual Gas            10.0                         9.5                9.0
- Fu iONi               16.0                        15.0                14.0
- Napha                 12.0                        11.0                10.0
- coal                  18.0                        18.0               15.0
-Nctral Gas                                         10.2      10.0      9.6       9.6      9.6       9.5
- Fuel Oi                                           13.9      14.3     14.4      15.1     13.5      13.9
- Napha                                             12.8      12.2     12.4      11.9     11.7      11.7
- Cold                                              33.5      33.8     38.9      39.1     39.7      42.7
Total                                           12.5     11.9      11.8      11.7     11.6     11.4
D. Avraaso Rail Transport Haulaag (Kilometers)
Tarets for d1 ft rler                900                                             800
- Ai F.iizw            1,089     1,094    1,073    1,089    1,011      1,024     929       935
- Lrea                  682       725      804       843      746
E.  Equated froeiht
-In 1 98U8ConstntsPt.      235.0                                                    211.5
AcbM
- Incwrrwtrms                235      239       197      217       299      311       302      327
kidian Nation (WPI)    6.50      6.50     5.80      8.20     7.50      7.40    10.30      7.20
- I  Nation Idex      100.00     93.90    88.75    82.02     76.30     71.04    84.41     80.08
- In 1986lConswntPa.      235.00    224.41    174.84    177.99    228.14    220.95    194.52    196.47
%PRODa



- 55 -
7.    Use of Bank Resources
A.    Staff Inputs
Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                        Weeks                                Commento
Actual
Until Appraisal                                 24.7    Includes 13.3 and 11.4 staff weeks in FY 86 respectively
for lending development and preparation.
Appraisal                                       37.3
Appraisal through Board Approval                15.7
Board Approval through Effectiveness              -
Supervision                                     83.7    Only about 35% and 51  of total supervision time was
spent respectively before mechanical completion of the
Aonla plant and project completion (as defined in
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement).
- Total                                    161.4
Comments:
1. About 50% of total supervision time was spent after the AONLA Project
was mechanically completed and commercial production formally declared. However,
project supervision was required until the end of 1993 to follow-up
implementation of the plant rehabilitation component.
2. Time spent in preparation of the PCR is not included.



- 56 -
B.       Missions
Stae of           Month/Year    Number of    Days in        Specialisation       Performance       Type of Problems
Proet  avcle                       Persons      Field          of Mission           Rating
b-rs aj            Status b/
Identificatio        FY 84          n.a.         n.a.             n.a.
n
Preparation          04/85            2           18               Eco
Appraisal            07/85            4            22         Eco, Eng, FA
Post-              10-11/85           1           11               Eco                           To obtain updated
Appraisal                                                                                        information and
discuss the
statement of
initiatives in the
fertilizer sector
with the
Government..
Supervision
1          02/87            2            11           Eco, Eng               1         Risk of delay in
gas supply, delaYs
in implementation
of the
rehabilitation
schemes, the
management study,
and the Program of
Initiatives.
2           10/87           4            6            Eng, Eco               2         GOI approval of the
Rehabilitation
schemes is already
18 months behind
schedule. Delays in
gas supply and in
implementation of
the management
study and the
program of
initiatives. Import
component is also
behind schedule.
3          03/88            3            5               Eng                 2         Approval of the
rehabilitation
component is 21
months behind
schedule. No
effective action
has been taken on
fertilizer pricing
and fertilizer
subsidy.
4           10/88           2             6            Eng, FA               2         Further delays in
rehabilitation
component and
study. Progress in
program of
initiatives remains
slow and does not
address the issues
of pricing and
subsidies.
5         01-02/90          3            13           Eng, Eco               2         Contract for gas
supply not yet
signed.
Rehabilitation
component seriously
delayed. Progress
on policy reform
issues and MIS
study
insignificant.



- 57 -
Stage of           Month/Year    Number of    Days in           Snecialisation       Performance       Type of Problems
Pro1ect Cycle                       Persons        Field          of mission            Rating
Mombmrs a/          Status b/
6           12/90             1            16               Eng                  2          Slow implementation
of the
rehabilitation
component and of
the revised
schemes.
7         11-12/91            2            16               Eng                  2          Implementation of
the rehabilitation
component remains
slow and an
extension of the
closing date is
requested.
8           01/93             2            6                Eng                  2          Implementation of
the rehabilitation
component remains
slow.
PCR                   04/94             1            12               Eng
Coments
a/ Key to Specialization:
Eng: Engineer
Eco: Economist
FA : Financial Analyst
b/ Key to Status:
1: Problem-free or Minor Problems
2: Moderate Problems
3: Major Problems



58 -
8. Status of Covenants
A - Loan Aueoment with IFFCO (Loan 2730 IN)- IFFCO shall:
2.03       ensure that all loan funds are disbursed by June   June 30, 1993    Closing date postponed one year to
30, 1992 (closing date)                     (actual)         alow completion of rehabilitation
investments.
3.05       tal all such action as shall be necessary on its   Met, with  Government approvals were obtained
part to obtain, by Dec.31, 1986, aU necessary    significant  only in December 1988.
approvals from the appropriate authorities for  delays
the implementation of Part A (ii) of the Project
(Rehab. investments).
4.04       by June 30, 1987, enter into contractual    Met, with        Contract was signed only on August
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the  significant   20, 1991. However, gas supplies
timely and adequate supply of gas for Part A (i)  delays     started March 24, 1988, two months
of the Project (Aonla plant).                                after mechanical completion.
5.01 (b)    provide audit reports on financial statements,  Met
project accounts and Statements of Expenditures
no later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year                                                                                     l
5.02 (a)    maintain a debt/equity ratio not greater than  Met
(i)        60:40                                                                                            l
5.02 (a)    after completion of the project, maintain a  Met
(ii)       current ratio of at least 1.2
5.02 (a)    maintain a (projected) debt service coverage  Met, except in    Ratio was 1.0 in 1986/87, but
(iii)      ratio of at least 1.3                        1986/87         increased above 1.3 in later years
5.02 (a)    during implementation of Part A (Aonla     Met
(iv)       project), not make aggregate investments in
fixed assets other than the project in excess of
US$80 million
5.02 (a)    not prepay any debt or declare dividends if this   Met
(v)        would result in the current ratio falling below
1.4
B - Guarantee Aereement (Loan 2730 IN)- GOI shall:
3.01       ensure that an adequate supply of gas for   Met, with        mas supply started on March 24,
operating the facilities is made available to  delays        1988, eight months after original date
IFFCO by July 31, 1987                                       and two months after mechanical
completion.
3.02       make available to IFFCO an amount equivalent   Met, in       GOI transfered the equivalent of
to US$267.8 million in the form of equity and    amounts needed   US$184.9 million as equity and
loan, as and when needed for the project    for the project    US$3.7 million as loan.



- 59 -
-wo        pawia     fCvnn
3.03       make appropriate allocation of alternative liquid   Met
fuels to IFFCO in a timely manner to operate
the dtam and power generation fccilitios
constructed under Part A (i) (Aonla)                                                           l
C - l      A reement (Lean 2729 to aon
2.03       closing date: June 30, 1992                 Met
3.01       carry out Part B of the project (program of  Met            Bank agreed alao to finance oil and oil
imports of fertilizer and related raw materials;            products under the import component,
and MIS study)                                              and first phase of MIS study was
implemented, although with long
delays relative to agreed chodule.
Second phase of the study is under
implementatation by 001.



Anna 1
InlA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN N0.2729/2730-1l)
PROJaCr CaWLETIOE REPORT
Consumption, Production and Imports of Fertilizers a/
(in thous nd tam of nutrliet)
Nitrogen                                   Phosphate                        Potash                         All NutrientS
Year      Consumption   Production  Imports    Consumption  Production  Imports   Consumption  Imports   Consumption   Production   imports
1952/53       58              53         44                5            7         -              3            3              66            60         47
1953/54       89              53         19                8           14        -               a            7             105            67         26
1954/SS       95              68         20              1S            14         -             11           11             121            82         31
1955/56      107              77         53              13            12         -             10           10             131             89        63
1956/57      123              79         57              16            17        -i                          15             154           106         72
1957/58      149              81        110              22            26        -              13           13             184           107        123
1958/S9      172              81          97             29            31        -              22           22             224           112        119
1959/60      229              84        142              54            S1        4              21           33             305           135        179
1960/61      212             112        399              53            54        -              29           20             294           166        419
1961/62      250             154        307              60            65        -              28           75             338           219        382
1962/63      333             194        244              83            88       10              36           41             452           282        295
1963/64      377             219        228             116           108       13              50           40             544           327        281
1964/65      SSS             243        232             149           131       12              69           57             773           374        301
1965/66      575             238        326             132           119       14              77           73             785           357        413
1966/67      738             309        632             248           146      148             114          lie          l,lOl            455        898
1967/68   1,034              402        867             335           207      349             170          270          1,539            609    1,486
1968/69   1,209              563        844             382           213      138             170          213          1,761            776    1,195
1969/70   1,356              730        667             416           224       94             210          120          1,982            954        881
1970/71   1,479              832        477             541           228       32             236          120          2,256          1,060        629
1971/72   1,798              949        481             558           290      248             300          268          2,657          1,239        997
1972/73   1,839            1,054        665             582           330      204             347          325          2,768          1,384    1,194
1973/74   1,829            1.050        659             650           324      213             360          370          2,839          1,374    1,242
1974/75   1,766            1,186        884             471           331      286             336          437          2,573          1.517    1,607
1975/76   2,149            1,535         996            467           320      361             278          278          2,894          1,S55    1,635
1976/77   2,457            1,857        750             635           478       23             319          278          3,411          2.335    1,051
1977/78   2,913            2,000        758             867           670      164             506          599          4,286          2,670    1,521
1978/79   3,419            2,169      1,228           1,106           776      243             592          517          5,117          2,945    1,988
1979/80   3,498            2,226      1,295           1,151           763      237             606          473          5,255          2,989    2,005
1980/81   3,678            2,164      1,510           1,214           842      452             624          797          5,516          3,006    2,759
1981/82   4,069            3,143      1.055           1,322           950      343             676          644          6,067          4,093    2,042
1982/83   4,263            3,434        425           1,420           984       65             735          644          6,418          4,418    1,133
1983/84   5,236            3,487        656           1,757         1,057      143             799          556          7,792          4,544    1.355
1984/85   5,486            3,917      2,009           1.886         1,318      745             839          871          8,211          5,235    3,625
1985/86   5,660            4,323      1,616           2,005         1,430      805             808          894          8,474          5,753     3,315
1986/87   5,716            5,412      1,106           2,079         1,662      279             850          890          8,645          7.074    2,275
1987/88   5,717            5,466        175           2,187         1,666       -              881          809          8,784          7.132        984
1988/89   7,251            6,712        219           2,721         2,253      407           1,068          989         11,040          8,965    1,615
1989/90   7,386            6,747        523           3,014         1,795   1,311            1,168       1,278          11,568          8.542    3,112
1990/91   7,997            6,993        412           3,221         2,051   1,016            1,328       1,326          12,546          9,044    2,754
1991/92   8,046            7,302        566           3,321         2,562      968           1,361       1,236          12,728          9,864    2,770
1992/93   8,426            7,430      1,152           2,842         2,321      727             884       1,081          12,152          9.751    2,961
a/ Until 1985 Statistical annual consumption is from rebruary 1 to January 31 and annual production is from April 1 to March 31.
Source    FFRTILIZfl STATISTICS (1992-93).
TEX JKRTILXZKR A8SOCIATION OF INDIA.
/Par l



-2
INDIA - COOPERATIVE FRRTILIZXR INDUSTRY PROJECT (LOAN nO. 2729/2730-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ASqLA PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLIENTATION SCMMULR - Actual  eruus IhFCO's REtisaten
*.N.   1ACTI         /   NOW=                  0       2       4        6       I       10       12      14      is       is      20      22       24      26      21       30      32      14       36      33      40       42
2. DITAILD p OIUZf D
3. P*OC          CRITICAL
4.  PIOCORT  ITIfCKL                                _
--  _-   _  --. --- -- ---  -_   . --..-  -.-  ...-. --  -   ---. -..-  --..- - -- -   ............ ......... ___. _...... ....... 4.
0. T5XIS  AD  CTRCTI5O________________________________________
6.  5M9F. AN  DR1.. O  CRITICAL/I.3? PT.
7. *3NU.  MD DaLY. O0 ISDIOMSKO     ,OPT.                  __
9.  DDL    TORSFRT
10. PILIN
11. 1          MPII     PIPIN                                                                -          ---
12.   PO GUNKO TION /sOXM o 5_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
13. STUNL  f       3r
14. UQlIMYsT rIoM                                                                                                                                                           ,,,,,,,,,,  _         ,__,
15. amO Wm  FIPtz=
16. D15T331T siCSI11
17  RLUCTRXCAL Z T10                                                                                                                           ,,_____,,,__________,,,,,,,,,,,_,_
19. AIrrIAG
19 .  PAINS....                                                                                                           _ ____ _ _ _______________________________________
20. PR:C: :E:IOII::
21. CSUssI N_                                                                                                                                                                                                              _ 
5CL 3        ___  __ _  ____
ACTUAL        --------
Zero Dts., January , 1905
ote:       - At appraisal. IFFCO' implseotation schedule estimates was based on (i) a 36-moths period to mwchsnical cowlation;  nd (ii) aia months for comiasioning. and performnce guarantee,
with the start of comercial production after 42 months. The Bank's SAR considered a Overall 41 months mrs conservative schedule, based on 45 months to mechanical completion plus
a shorter comissioning period of 3 moths.
- The SA considers the xero date as of October 1, 1904, while the actual zero date is January 8, 1345 whn 001 approvals wre obtained and the process consultants contract for anonie
/PCA31       d urea becme effective.



Annx 3-1
FFCO - hA  Proabt
hwmt Pwlstv of Ure
R_Mmm2~   on  mmflt WMM                                                                                                                                        mz  am  "M  7WM  MAI
Urna-FOB Europ. Begged
hi Consmbt 100 US                                                                      163      140      167       6ee      132      100      11S      123      127      ItX       133      136       144
Oean Feight to Bombay                                                                  35        35       35       35       35        35       35       35       35        35       35       35       35
en6tag. Port Chwg. Storage and Los                                                     14       14       14       14        14       14       14       14       14        14       14       14        14
tkea-ecnl hOt Us e                                                                                                                                                                          3ff 217 M  1 4  JR
Ureas -porthi 91  aR.                                                                3,605    3,302    3.6s7    3,9s5   3.24s    2.674    2.044    3,067    5,150    5,213    3,267    3,321    3,464
Gomsetc Tbnaport DNiranti fRle.jin)                                                   v5 s      n5s       ns      ns       275       275      278      275      275       275      275      275       276
B-inca r.~~~~~ a Featom Oat hi 30*1 Naiba                        3m LM            LM       A 33Zg    3fl               3        3M       A"f       is       iLi    35         LI
B-inn Pr~e hmmUt use                                                                    z    aI            at   a    ins    7in    nz   in   in                                      z S              a
ReSbntn Prce for Aohe hI 900j1 Rsadon                                                6.283    4,607    4.115    5,764    3.688    3.424    3,550    3516    3.6129    3,6e3      3,705    3,749    3,730
Economic Prie of Une at Apprnel. hi 196 USSAton                                                          270                                           256
Economi Pric of tUre at Apprasal, hI 1900/91 USS/lon                                                     304                                           417
Economic Value o Natural GM
R_ b    _                                                                            ule09    509*0    9001    91/S2    92*93   0944    94f96    95*6    0/67    97*8    06*0              99/00    00/01
Cnadeci (C eonr 1990 U0SMBL)                                                          14.3      17.2     21.2     17.0     16.3     14.2      13.1     13.8     14.5      18.3     16.0     16.8     17.5
AcAtalAa    PrieofFuelGNHS(CurrntUN)                                                    a6       95        0D       62       81
Aall Avwrge Prie of Fuel 0(1900 USS)                                                    e9      100       00        61       76
Fuel 01 (100091 oonetnt USSA*n)                                                                                     51       76       66       61        63      68        71       75        78       82
Ooan Frait lo Bombay                                                                   3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0
Fuel GOOF Bombay (1990O 1 US)                                                           72      10       102        n4       7f       e         n       6e        71       74       za        el       eb
Transport b IC                                                                          10       10        10       10       10       10       10        10       10       10        10       10       10
Ecm.bPrtFof FelON t1moat Umu/bn                                                         *2      115      112       e4                  70     7n        Z                   4       3e        91       96
Ecnomic Prce of Fue GO (1990/91 RsJbn)                                              1t474    202j    2 010    jJ087    1.697    1.422    1.330    1372    t447    1510    1.572    1A&               I eaw
Ec1n1 Prim Of amtlinit RaJiOcNom                                                     I= w7        r US14   t.4a   is    2S    Lin E                       LE   i        iS     1ite  J.Z7
EnPreofOaefl690UAIsfo0Mcm1                                                              fl    a           a   lat   zz    a                     e        a        in    ZR    ZR    ZR    t
Aom Gas Price hn Cumt ReJl100ooNcm                                                  2,606    2.610    2,620    2,639    2,740    2,963    3,075    3,16e
Fhiendl Prbe of Ba (100091  RJOooNom)                                                3,047    2,681    2,629    2,427    2.3e6   2,276    2,370    2,440    2,440    2,440    2,440    2,440    2.440
Eonomic Price of GBe at Appranil, In 1965 USS                                                              ea                                           131
Econommi Price of S    at Appmnihaln hi1901 US                                                            143                                           191
ccimnwm



Arinx3-2
Econoemnic bt. of RPwn - Aonih Prolee
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y                             am    mms am   am^ MM   O                                    wi           - sw O"w    WM  "0 WM   Om
-  1      --    IMq)                                                              503.2   824.0  86.4   84.6    816.8   870.0           0.0o   so0.0   80.0    8.          72.0   726.0    726.0
-          _Adi r r-oind bkn) \1                                                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
- ur -a                                                                           s,sss 3.98  3,842    3.847    4,044    3,3ss    2.824    3,093    3,237    3,30S    3,302    3,416    3,470    3,614
- Lkm Lw"                                                                          227      204      221      232      196      164      179      187      191      194      197      200       206
Tom fAluNM                                                                           114      108      11        S7      1U0      14U      148      100      l88      18       148      145      l51
bhi   C\wComb 2                                14.2    72.4    221.0    140.9       71.e      5.7      7.4      0.0      0.6       1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3    (54.4
WouWng CqplW %                                                                       9.0      (0.9)    1.5      1.2      8.1                                                                    (154
Gas
my "MoaNe                                                                          382      534      544      66       s5u      572      406      406       40s      406      483      483      463
.Prim (iIWni R&AhwAwndNon)                                                        1,279    1,757    1,744    1,403    1.366    1,233    I,13    1,100    ,I'm     1.309    1,364    1,418    1,473      w
P.im (IUWSI USWmwsn Nom)                                                           71       96       97       82       77       60        64       66       70       73       76       79       82
.Cadiom"wonULAW                                                                     25       52       53       46       43       30        32       33       35       36       35       37       3s
PLdrchu.d 5lIky (nmlan Rs.)                                                         -        -       0.1      0.1       -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
-Bagk   (1Mu    RL)                                                                   5        7        8        6        5        5        4        5         5        5        5        5        5
Bb-bM  Vm Cmd                                                               30        S       el  II Z          48       4        36       87        40       41       40       42       48
Tol F  d 0b                                                            17.2   a2o        18.      10.3    11.9    12i        114      14.8     152      1g       16.7      17.8  1- 0
TOl C            1 4    Zs  2              141    127                    a                                   W        4M  U    N         s       -        11        3
td    h                         MFlS4 LW                     141)                                                             a         74 105  184  * 5  97               as      In
FbmnsI aR_b d u1M Ml                   12.2 5                                                                                                                              R
A1a            BAR Edb_A
Bs" Cas                         12.2              17.1
Proneo hipn d hI 48 Sun**                         19.2
VwribOo Cs 41G%                 11.1                -
Ndbs                                                                                                                                  vrhm  oeifdown I 10%            13.1                 -
ProduOdbn Co    up 1G%          11.0                -
1A b asemied 6t.  N ammik im ued for wea produdln                                                                                   Raev up 10%                     15.2                 -
\2 - .    ---d  atppra mla residl vuka at the and of                                                                                  Revee up a%                    113.7                 -
projtd We m sadhd at 1 0% d dapreble as_ses                                                                                           R     Nene dm  10%               8.9               13.6
\ r3ry  owydAg  wcapi ate sud oproect His.                                                                                            Capcy Ul. u 5%                  13.3                 -
Casely L. down IO%               9.9                -
Gapacy MakUtd d                                      -
@ 110% wS 2001                  12.4                -



Arnet 3-3
FRinncal RIf8 of Rsbun - AanIm Plant
ICn_*1_1M  RiL W
FhrnIVin  ~~~~~~~~~~S                         m        W          WMW                        S      m          i    MM         -q-  mm          _ amW              ONO
- Ike. (UIaUinndbua) S03.2   824.0    S.4   84.6   816                                                               870.0    80.0   800.0   800.0  s00.0   726.0   726.0   728.0
_ma*n   e                                      \                             -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -        -
- Ue     5" 83    4,60                                                                            4,115    3.74    368U    3,424    3,560    38615    8,629  3523   3a70        8,740    a780
TGl      rNmm 2.                                                                             7              _1 -N  -  -  -    Z                                              - M  L -          -
h        n    Cags 2                          144    1.05S    3,06      2,100     1,068      e       143        0       23       S0      S0       S0       S0      50       S0       S0 o     0
Ws0     \JI 3                                                                      161      -16       27       22   0 2
*Quanf _ nNMiN)                                                                  382       34      544      861      S8       872      490     406      406    406       463      463      46S
Pib.  PwB.FtMPAAsm=M  m)                                                        2,6      2,610    2,M      2.60    2,748    2,063    3,075    3,166    8,166   3,166    3,166    X,166    3,166
Price (10U  Rm.Mhoad Nem)                                                      8,047    2,861    2,e20    2,427   206    2,276    2,370    2,440    2,440   2,440    2,440    2,440    2440
. CadoQ  (mE,nRs.)                                                              1,073    1,S22    1,420    1,361    1,336    1,302    1,175    1,210    1,210   1,210    1,131    1,131    1,131
- Pwcuad Elogy (mUon Ra)                                                            -        -        2        1        -        -        -        _       _       _        _        _        _
- B.ghgW (mon ML)                                                                   81     147      171      179      1U8      176      170      179      I8     197    18        197      207
___b____.1SS_C1._ 156    I                                                                MM       1.841    144   1.479    1J4S    15        I1J7   1A.4       15t9    1M        1S
TGlFbodeamb                               nZ7    862  _ILO    4A                                        4605     49t.0   88.4   517.    666.0 9        Q A            OK      741J
TGWCX_ t44 im MM LtM  mi t0 7m   aff7M  AM tM  MM .0t LOm  &It  U 17
Rdm                            no@ tt           F    IL   t.1741 tA2 t" D                                         M        27    M   1 . 7 M  "6M                              6
Pb.neI R_m d R_wn Mi -                  8.0                                                                                  s_                                     FM
_              UR  _.
BR4mor                         0.8              11.j
Pi    DvqAw lsIn48 rrwts        -                14
MwbCadB Up 10WA                7.3              10.4
MobS                                                                                                                               wIbCadownn10%                  12.1              131
ProadudnCOmbtp10%              64                 -
1 l _umedUtallw-             ic ibmd   we. produdon,                                                                               Rae   up1Wl                   14.6                -
\2 rnea-, dgtpp          rdfklwkattom erd                                                                                           Revm uqpSK                    12.3                -
projmgUsvma inbdu10           Z ~ deprecd _se.m.                                                                                   A.w.wnR dmn10%                 4.2                -
%troooaw.y~d0i*   pbIdUu endoip Q mPE..                                                                                             CUpacl LU. up %               10.8                -
CUp  cIyUtdown10%              7.8              10.2
D1 10% Od 2001                 9.0                -
F- n6 Pme     or kea &Gm    12.8 
EccnomncPricesoyLcrLke.        2.4
*I.Lw



Annex 3.4
REEI4IXON PRICE CALCULATION FOR AONLA
(Ra p- two)
J88          Apr-9   Apr-"   Ap44l   Apr92   A4-3   A"4   A"5   Apr-%    A7   A"                                                    A         Aw-
to            to          to          to         to          to          to          to          to          to          to          to         to
Mbn~~~~~blr9 Mu-f M            M2    "                 Mu    bla5   hrM                      7    Mu-   blM-                    M          w
PRC1  G PERIOD I                   PRICNPIOD                             ICINO PIIOOD m                    mCIN  PERIOD IV
PRODIUCI       (Te_Y p _T)                 435,480     669,240     691,650     691,650    691,650    691,650       685,920    688,920      688,920     65,380     658,410     647,310   647,310
IVARI"LE COSI
NATURAL GAS                                169         1,69        1,707       1,707       1,707      1,917       2,036       2,097       2,097       2,097       2,097       2,097     2,097
PVRCAED POWER-t                              -           -                       -           -          -           -           -           -                       -           -         -
AUB                                          158        14          184        197         179         119         203         210         221         235        245         258        m
NWTA   I                             1,5         I,M         1,5I1       I,          1,887       2,1 6b 9                2,3W       2w318        2,331      2,3M        2,355      2,368
LM7DX COST, EIC.t1DUN   I N M
LADODR AOVERHEAD                             164         166         168        I5         195         195         211         211         211         278         290         295       392
MWNTENANCE                                    82          78         76          84          S8          95         115         120         126         133         146         156       163
INSURANCE                                     47          50          50          54         54          54          S0          80          S0          93          97          99       115
CATALYSTS.O ,OCALS A WATER                    So          61          59         62          62          62          72          72          72          S4          88          89       103
SMAINOE)MJSES                                106         106         106         155         155        155         199         199         199         230         230         230       266
DEW3CATION                                   517         475        460         460         460         460         528         528         52S         544         566         576       590
KTOAL.                                1,5s4        93g         %I         1,10       1,013       1,I51       1,26'       1,211       1,217       1,303       1,416       1,444     I,t
SJfRCZR T-LGW TERMW DM"                        581         539         522         357         357         357         307        307         307         135         141         143        -
4ymD   COST MNQUOM         GDMM              1,585       1,475       1,440       1,366       1,370       1,378       1,512       1,517       1,523       1,498       1,557      1,587      1,629
SJlEOURN ON NW           OUT                 1,076         919         783         960         960         960         us          8a          o68        172         90S         923        843
6,rKPE     N PUCE  t114+51                   4,917       4,345       4,115       4,31        4,217       4,484       4,611       4,81        4,70        4,701       4,857      4,W6S      4dM
_  S  _    =  e  =    =  _  a    a _  a    a  a  a    a  a  a    a  =  a    a  a  a    a  =  -    a -  a                as       na -          '- -  
Y_o  pik I1n  85111,                          5,283       4,697       4,115       3,714       3,688      3,424        3,59        3,615      3,629       3,623       3,705       3,749      3,730
RdaUIrn hdm u  Jdhd  g Aho
hC _rontgagm                                       5,339       6,097       6,072       6,032       6,038       6,049       6,065       6,065       6,111      6,143       6,180      6,223
JEUIA                                             411         469         467         464         464         465         467         468         470         473         475       479
bnmu_-dZhuah1598t       5  ReAM               4,080       3,667       3,97        4,170       3,524      2,949        3,219      3,362       3,434       3,418       3,342       3.596      3,739
Emein  ,FtImd1 inh1S9Wm  1tU                    277         204         221        232          196        164         179        17          191         194         197         200       20S
_- WII     - %WORTMJ aL-u  A7p  *=



- 66 -
Annex 4 Page 1
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF IFFCO
Balance Sheet
Fiscal Year                          1986/87  1987/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Ending                                6130/87   3/31/89  3131190   3/31191   3/31/92  3/31/93
(21 months)
Current Assets
- Operabing Cash and Banks              810       288      856     1,004      558     3,216
- Accounts Receivable                  1,325      876     1,307      682     1,072    1,063
- Inventories                          2,971    2,715     3,026    2,562     3,048    3,493
- Loans and Advances                   2,316    3,809     2,940    3,608     5,177    4,166
Total Current Assets           7.422    7.6M      8.129    7.856    9.855   11,938
Investments                             1,127    1,127     1,127    2,549     2,656    1,127
Net Differed Revenues/Expenditures         7         7        4         1        0         0
Fixed Assets
- Gross Fixed Assets                   5,130    10,280    10,565    10,875    12,844    13,408
- Accumulated Depreciation             1,981    3,015    3,933     4.844     6,115    7,382
- Net Ficed Assets                     3,149    7,265     6,632    6,031     6,729    6,026
- Work in Progress                     2,980      105       53       100      280       344
Total Fixed Assets            6.129    7.370    6.685    6.131    7.009    e.370
Total Assets           14.685   1190   15.945   16.537   19.520   19.4S5
Current Liabilities                    3,694    2.945    3.422    3,415    4,455    3.937
Total (LT) Debt                        4,873    6,782    5,687    5,188    6,547    6,032
Equtt
- Share Capital                        3,250    3,529     3,562    3,580     3,606    3,623
- Retained Earnings                    2,868    2,934     3,274    4,129     4,913    5,842
Total Equity                    6.118    6.463    A8S6    7.709    8.519    9.465
Main Financial Ratios          Covenants
- Debt Service Coverage Ratio  1.4       1.0      1.4       1.9      2.8       2.9      3.5
- Debt Equity Ratio            0.6      0.44     0.51      0.45     0.40      0.43     0.39
- Current Ratio                1.3       2.0      2.6       2.4      2.3       2.2      3.0
- Return on Equity (%)                  0.02     1.70      4.91     9.19      7.24    10.81



- 67 -
Annex 4 Page 2
Income Statement
Fiscal Year                           1986/87  1987/89  1989/90  1990/91   1991/92  1992/93
Ending                                 6/30/87   3/31/89   3/31/90   3/31/91   3/31/92   3/31/93
(21 months)
Income
- Sales                                 4,929    9,472     6,498     7,154     8,772    10,137
- FICC Receipts                         1,019    3,847     3,470     3,873     4,307    3,908
- Other Income                           621     1,240     1,109     1,115     1,528    1,139
- Change in Inventories                  360      (818)      149     (555)      238       844
Total Income              6.929   13.741   11.226    11.587   14.845    16.028
Costs
Variable Costs
- Raw Materials                         3,666    7,265     4,769     5,110    8,305     8,454
- Purchased Products                     600       128     1,107      356       123       640
- Other                                  548      1,214    1,116     1,140     1,306    1,288
Total Variable Costs            4.814    8607    6.992    6.606    9,734    10,382
Fixed Costs
- Labor & Overhead                       235       505       395      524       531       668
- Depreciation                           301      1,010      920      917      1,398    1,264
- OtherCosts                            1,206    2,281     1,597     1,730     1,844    1,580
Total Fixed Costs             1,742    3,796    2,912    S,171    9.779    3,512
Total Cost of Goods             6.556    2.403    92.        9.777   13.507   1.L894
Operating Income               373    1,t38      1,922     1,810     1,998    2,134
Financial Charges                         448      1,106      804      712       597       488
Other Income & Adjustments                177       (25)        6       (17)     267       (93)
Income before Taxes                       102       207      524      1,081    1,008     1,553
Income Taxes                                -         -         -                          396
Income after Taxes                        102       207       524     1,081     1,008     1,157
Dividends                                  54       137       214      215       216       217
Retained Earnings                          48        70       310      866       792       940
UNANCE



- 68 -
Annex 5 - Page 1 of 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
(Loans 2729-IN & 2730-IN)
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
I.   THE AONLA PLANT
1.   The project is located in a generally barren and scarcely populated area.
Nevertheless, adequate pollution control measures have been adopted: adequate
effluent treatment and discharge facilities were constructed in accordance with
Indian environmental standards, which are comparable to standards applied for
such installations in industrialized countries and/or other environmental
standards acceptable to the Bank. Major effluent streams from the plant include:
(i) liquid effluent from the ammonia and urea plants and from the water treatment
plant; (ii) dust emissions from the urea plant prilling tower; (iii) blow down
of the cooling tower; and (iv) sludge from the water treatment plant.
A.   Existing Environmental Control in the Aonla Plant
2.    The environmental control facilities of Aonla are summarized below:
(a)   licuid effluent treatment:  the ammonia and urea plants were designed
based on a zero-effluent concept, with complete recovery and re-use of process
steam condensates, maximum recovery of treated liquid effluent and recycle of
ammonia.   The plant liquid effluent treatment facilities include:  (i) a deep
hydrolyzer in the urea plant to recover ammonia and CO2 from process condensates,
before they are recycled; (ii) stripping treatment of process condensates in the
ammonia plant to strip ammonia and other impurities and, after polishing, recycle
the condensates as boiler feed water; (iii) disk oil separators for the treatment
of oily waste water from compressors; (iv) effluent neutralization pits; (v)
centralized treatment of the cooling water blow-down with hexavalent chromium
removal and dumping of the final de-watered cake in a low density polyethylene
(LDPE) lined pit; (vi) centralized treatment of waste from ammonia and urea
plants with air and steam stripping towers; (vii) two separate corrosion-
resistant double-lined holding ponds for the storage of treated effluent (85,000
m3 each), before re-use for the irrigation of the plant green belt; and (vii)
sewage treatment.
(b)  Air Pollution Control:  the urea prilling tower is equipped with a
dedusting system (water jet scrubbers) to remove urea dust from the exhaust air.
The urea solution is recycled and the system maintains dust concentration in the
exhaust  effluent  at about  20 mg/Nm3,  well  within the limit of  50 mg/Nm3
stipulated by the 1981 Air Act and MINAS. Also, the use of natural gas from
Bombay High as fuel allows a negligible sulfur dioxide and dust content in all
stacks.   Flue gas stacks of ammonia, power and steam generation plants are
equipped with monitoring devices (NO, and SOx analyzers) and CO2 and oxygen on
line analyzers were incorporated to improve combustion and reduce pollution. Use
of liquid fuel (LSHS) instead of gas (Part I - para 7.2), will marginally
increase So2 emissions, but they are estimated to be within standards -- with
this in mind, the Boiler stack was constructed high, at 120 meters.
(c) Noise Control and Land Environment: to improve the ecological balance
of the surrounding area and reduce noise and dust transmission, a green belt of



- 69 -
Annex 5 - Page 2 of 5
150,000 trees have been planted, in and around the plant, on a total of 350
acres. In addition, IFFCO has also established a tree nursery and distributes
free seedlings to promote social forestry.   The project area was initially
deforested, barren and alkaline, however, the large scale tree plantation program
carried out by IFFCO is improving the micro climatic conditions and the
aesthetics of the area by improving the soil, reducing soil erosion and helping
in the restoration of displaced fauna.
(d)  Environmental  Monitoring:   Aonla  is  equipped  with  a  modern
environmental management laboratory, adequate water and air pollution monitoring
stations and, with the guidance and assistance of the UP Pollution Control Board
(UPPCB),  the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), and the Department of
Environment, has established an environment management plan, including a detailed
monitoring plan. In addition, the local agency of UPPCB periodically checks Aonla
liquid effluent and air emissions to ensure that they are within prescribed
limits. Finally, a fully dedicated team of engineers from the Technical Services
Department, constituting the core of the environmental monitoring group,
coordinates all activities related to environmental protection. Finally, an
emergency system is in place (para. ?)
B.   Environment Impact Assessment of January 1993
3.   In addition to the compulsory initial environmental assessment on the basis
of which the project was designed, in 1992/93, more than four years after
commissioning, IFFCO undertook a new Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the
Aonla plant to assess the actual impact of the project and estimate the potential
environmental impact of the expansion project. The report was submitted to and
accepted by the state and central environmental agencies. This new study was
prepared on the basis of data collected for air, water, noise, biological, land
and socio-economic impacts in the project area of influence. The EIA analyzed the
air, water and biological, noise, land, and socio-economic environments, and
included the identification, projection and evaluation of the project's
environmental impacts; proposed a detailed environmental management plan,
mitigating measures and a detailed environmental monitoring and disaster
management plans. Its overall conclusion is that the Aonla pollution control is
effective and all effluent are within limits specified by MINAS. Excerpts of the
EIA are available in the PCR file, including annual average effluent analyses
compared with UPPBC standards. Main conclusions on the present situation can be
summarized as follows:
(a) the liquid effluent treatment plant is efficient, the quality of
treated effluent conforms to the Minimum National Standards (MINAS)
and can be used for irrigation purposes;
(b) cooling tower blow-down effluent are efficiently treated, treated
effluent are recycled, and chromium cake safely stored in LDPE-lined
pits;
(c) efficiency of the sewage plant is satisfactory;
(d) effluent discharges to the Aril river meets the UP Control Board
standards and their impact is negligible and reversible by self
depuration and therefore no damage to the aquatic life is expected;
(e) flue gas from the power and steam generation plant contain negligible
quantities of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide and suspended
particulate content are well below the UP standards;
(f) exhaust air from the urea prilling tower contains less than 35 mg per
Nm3 of dust, well below the 50 mg/Nm3 standard.   All other gaseous
streams from the urea plant are scrubbed and are practically free from
ammonia;



-70 -
Annex 5 - Page 3 of 5
(g) there is no adverse impact on ground water;
(h) air within and around the fertilizer complex is almost free from toxic
pollutants  --  so   concentration  is  negligible;   the  maximum
concentrations of N02 is lower than 20 micrograms/Nm3 and well within
the UP limit of 120 micrograms/Nm3; and suspended particulates in the
plant area are lower than 200 micrograms, well within the UP limit of
500 micrograms/Nm3; and
(i) the noise level inside the factory requires the introduction of
personal protective equipment, however, it is within or close to the
established 90 decibel standard.
C.   A Case Study of Environmental Management Practices at Aonla
4.   In 1989, the Centre for Energy, Environment and Technology carried out a
case study on the environmental management practices at Aonla. This study was
sponsored by the Ministry of Environment and Forests. Its main conclusions were
similar to those of the above later EIA. In addition, this study recommended the
introduction of periodic external auditing in the Aonla management plan. The
Bank strongly supports this recommendation, which will help identify, review and
improve upon the existing situation and the adopted measures.
D.   Disaster Manaqement and Risk Assessment Study
5.   In 1992/93, IFFCO revised its disaster plan in Aonla in light of the new
guidelines issued by the Directorate of Factories of the Department of Labor of
UP.   This updated disaster management plan includes:  (i) an inventory of
potential disasters and precautions to be taken; (ii) an emergency plan; (iii)
an evacuation plan; (iv) emergency pollution control, including mutual aid
schemes in the event of disaster; and (v) a disaster management structure chart.
II. THE PHULPUR PLANT
6.   The naphtha-based Phulpur ammonia-urea plant was commissioned in 1980 with
a nominal capacity of 1,500 tpd of urea and is located in the Indo-Gangetic
plains. Since start-up, IFFCO has implemented an extensive program of effluent
and pollution control improvements to keep the Phulpur plant in conformity with
UPPCB and MINAS standards.   Part of the new schemes were financed under the
project. Except for the fly ash disposal/reuse and of the ash pond ash overflow
water, all other effluent are similar to those of Aonla (para. 1).  Pollution
control measures for liquid effluent, air emissions, domestic sewage, and solid
waste were taken and aim at maximum reduction and re-use of effluent.
A.   Existing Environmental Control in the PhulDur Plant
7.    The environmental control facilities of the Phulpur plant are summarized
below:
(a)   Liouid Effluent Treatment:       Many improvements in operation and
effluent treatment were introduced in the ammonia and urea plants for maximum
recovery and re-use of process steam condensates, maximum recovery of treated
liquid effluent and recycle of ammonia.  The plant liquid effluent treatment
facilities include: (i) a deep hydrolyzer (financed under the project) in the urea
plant to recover ammonia and CO2 from process condensates, before they are
recycled; (ii) a stripping treatment of process condensates in the ammonia plant
to strip ammonia and other impurities and after polishing, recycle the
condensates as boiler feed water; (iii) oil separators for the treatment of oily
waste water from compressors; (iv) effluent neutralization pits; (v) centralized
treatment of the cooling water blow-down with hexavalent chromium removal and
dumping of the final settled sludge after drying and bagging in HDPE into a HPDE



-71-
Annex 5 - Page 4 of 5
lined pit; (vi) two separate holding ponds for the storage of treated effluent
before its recycling for process use, irrigation of the plant green belt and in
Moti Lai Nehru Farmer's Training Institute; (vii) sewage treatment; (viii)
reduction in fresh water requirement by recycling the effluent from the inert gas
plant; and (ix) a new ash pond constructed to reduce solid content in water
overflow within the UPPBC and Minas standards.
(b) Solid Waste Management: Waste generated at Phulpur includes fly ash,
lime sludge, and chromium sludge.   The chromium sludge is dried, bagged and
safely stored in a lined pit. 350 tpd of ash settle in a pond, part of which is
used for land reclamation and as land filling. Phulpur is implementing a pilot
plant for the production of 5,000 calcium silicate bricks with ash. Part of the
2,500 tpy lime sludge from the water softening plant is presently sold, and
development work is being carried out for better use.
(b) Air Pollution Control: The air pollution control systems include:
electrostatic separators for separating the fly ash from the flue gas; a 100 m
high stack in the power plant; scrubbers for gaseous emissions and cyclones for
dust collection for coal and product handling;   and C02 and oxygen on-line
analyzers were incorporated to improve combustion and reduce pollution. Finally,
the urea prilling tower is 96-meter high with natural draft air flow, and the
solid content of its exhaust is within UPPBC and MINAS standards.
(c)  Dust  and Noise  Control  and Land Environment:    to  improve  the
ecological balance of the surrounding area and reduce noise and dust
transmission, a green belt of 270,000 trees was planted, in and around the plant,
on more than 65% of the company area. The project area was initially deforested
and barren, however, the large scale tree plantation program carried out by IFFCO
improved the micro-ecological conditions and the aesthetics of the area.
(d)  Environment Monitoring: Phulpur is equipped with a modern environment
and pollution control laboratory (recognized by UPPCB), stacks sampling
arrangements, water and ambient air pollution monitoring stations, and has
established a detailed monitoring plan. Finally, a fully dedicated team of well
trained engineers, constituting the core of the environmental monitoring group,
coordinates all activities related to environmental protection.
B.   The 1992/93 Environmental Imvact Assessment
8.   In 1992/93 HBTI/KANPUR undertook an EIA of the Phulpur plant based on field
data collected over a period of eighteen months on air, water, and land pollution
I solid, liquid and gaseous discharges, flora, fauna, and population and human
health. Main conclusions of the study include:
(a) the water table will not deplete;
(b) no irreversible impacts are foreseen;
(c) efficient control measures are adopted and impact on air and the
atmosphere is negligible;
(d) liquid effluent and solid waste are well managed and their impact on
water and land bodies is negligible;
(e) the socio-economic environment has improved; and
(f) the green belt moderates plant impact on the environment and has
improved its aesthetics.
The study also recommends to further reduce the discharge of effluent water
(currently recycled at about 60%), improve the bottom of the urea storage to
better control moisture seepage, and continue R&D work on the use of solid waste.



- 72 -
Annex 5 - Page 5 of 5
III. THE KALOL PLANT
9.   The gas-based Kalol ammonia-urea plant was commissioned in 1975 with a
nominal capacity of 1,200 tpd of urea and is located in Gujarat. Since start-up,
IFFCO had implemented an extensive program of effluent and pollution control
improvements to reduce pollutants in the Kalol plant effluent within the limits
of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) and MINAS standards. Part of the
new schemes were financed under the project. Plant effluent are similar to those
of Aonla  (para.  1) .   Pollution control measures for liquid effluent,  air
emissions, domestic sewage, and solid waste were introduced, aiming at maximum
reduction and re-use of effluent. Most of these improvements were commissioned
in 1992/93 and 1993/94, and liquid and gas effluent are now in conformity with
GPCB standards.
A.   Pollution Control Measures Implemented
10. The following pollution control measures were implemented:
(a) a deep hydrolyzer (financed under the project )in the urea plant to
recover ammonia and CO2 from process condensates, before they are
recycled;
(b) collection and treatment system of urea plant leakages;
(c) use of sodium hydroxide instead of ammonia in the water treatment
plant;
(d) a condensate stripper vent gas condensation system in the ammonia
plant, the condensates being treated in the urea plant hydrolizer;
(e) a final ammonia scrubber to scrub vent gases from the existing HP
scrubber in the urea plant; and
(f) a dedusting system with wet scrubbing of gas effluent from urea
storage and bagging facilities.
IV. THE KANDLA PLANT
11. The Kandla Diammonium Phosphate (DAP) and complex fertilizer (NPK) plant
started commercial production in 1975 with two granulation plants using imported
phosphoric acid and potassium chloride. Two additional granulation units were
added in 1981 to double production capacity. The Kandla unit is adjacent to the
Kandla port (Gujarat) . The units are based on well known process, are based on
complete recycling of liquid effluent and are equipped with the necessary gas
effluent treatment and pollution control systems, including cyclones, scrubbers,
dedusting systems, and with total recycle of the scrubbing liquor. The plant
received many safety awards from the Government of India and from the Gujarat
Safety Council.



- 73 -
Annex 6
Ammonia - Urea Plants based on Natural Gas
from the Bombay High and South Bassein
ComDany        Site            State           No. of Plants
1    KRIBHCO        Hazira          Gujarat              2
2    RCFL           Maharashtra    Thal Vaishet          2
3    NFL            Vijaipur        Madhia Pradesh       1 + (1)
4    IFFCO          Aonla           Uttar Pradesh        I + (1)
5    Indo Gulf      Jagdishpur      Uttar Pradesh        1
6    Bindal Agro    Shahjahhanpur  Uttar Pradesh         1 (08/94)
7    CFCL           Gadepan         Rajasthan            1 (12/93)
8    Tata Chemicals Babrala         Uttar Pradesh        1 (08/94)
(1)  Expansion already approved,  process and design contracts
already signed, commissioning is expected in October 1996.
Design and procurement is being implemented jointly by the two
enterprises.












