noeumenz of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4346-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
INDIA
(IN AN AMOUNT OF t150.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND TO THE
INDIAN FARMERS FERTILISER COOPERATIVE LIMITED
(IN THE AMOUNT OF US$152 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
FOR THE
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
June 4, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 30, 1986)
US$1.00        =  Rs 12.79
Rs 1.00        = US$.0800
Rs 1 million   =  US$80,000
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
the US$1.00 = is 13 which represents the average exchange
rate at the time of the appraisal.
FISCAL YEAR
Government o, India: April 1 - March 31
IFFCO:                July 1 - June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
FAI                  -   Fertilizer Association of India
FICC                 -   Fertilizer Industry Coordination Committee
GAIL                 -   Gas Authority of India Ltd
GoI                  -   Government of India
HBJ Pipeline         -   Hazira-Bajaipur-Jagdishpur Pipeline
IFFCO, the Company   -   Indian Farmers Fertilizers Cooperative Ltd
kv, kw, MW, MWH      -   kilovolts, kilowatts, Megawatts, Megawatt-hour
HARD                  -   Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MP                    -   Madhya Pradesh State
NFL                   -   National Fertilizers Ltd
OECF                  -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan
tph, tpd, tpy        -   Metric tons per hour, per day, per year
tyn                  -   Metric tons per year of nutrient
UP                   -   Uttar Pradesh State



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summay
Borrowers:                    GOI Loan:   India, acting by its President
IFFCO Loan: Indian Farmers Pertiliser
Cooperative Limited (IFFCO).
Guarantor of IFFCO Loan:      India, acting by its President.
Amount:                       US$302.2 million equivalent, consisting of:
GOI Loan; US$150.2 million; and IFFCO Loan;
US$152 million.
Terms:                        GOI and IFFCO loans:  15 years, including 5
years' grace at the standard, variable interest
rate. GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk
on its Loan and IFFCO would bear the foreign
exchange risk on its Loan. OOI would charge
IFFCO a Guarantee Fee such that the effective
interest rate paid by IFFCO would be 13.75Z, the
current rate paid by similar firms in India.
Project Description:          The project consists of (a) construction and
cofiussioning of a greenfield fertilizer
manufacturing plant to be owned and operated by
IFFCO, one of the two cooperative sector
manufacturers of fertilizers in India. The
plant would be located at Aonla in the state of
Uttar Pradesh; (b) investments at 3 existing
IFFCO manufacturing plants at Phulpur, [alol,
and Kandla to improve operating efficiencies,
reduce energy consumption, improve product
quality and output, and lower pollution; (c) a
study to develop a performance evaluation and
control system for use by GOI for all publicly
owned fertilizer plants; and (d) the importation
of fertilizer materials. The project faces
minimal technological risks as the technologies
have been widely used in India. There is a
potential risk that the feedstock pipeline-the
gas pipeline from Hazira via Bijaipur and Aonla
to Jagdishpur (the HBJ Pipeline)--may not be
completed in time for the new plant but provi-
sion has been made for firing the steam gener-
ation units on liquid fuels should gas supplies
be delayed. Letters of Intent covering con-
struction of the pipeline have been issued and
procurement of major items is in progress.
This document as arestuicted distbution and may be used by recpients only in the performane
of their offi dutiea Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborizaion.



US$ Millions
Estimated Cost                       Local           Foreign           Total
(a) Aonla Plant 1/
Land and Site Development           8.7               _                8.7
Civil Works and Building           25.1             18.7              43.8
Equipment, Katerials & Spares      67.5            197.7             265.2
Erection and Commissioning         23.0              4.4              27.4
License, Engineering, Management  29.7              17.3              47.0
Township and Infrastructure        25.1              2.3              27.4
Sub total - Base Cost Estimate   179.1             240.4             419.5
(b) Rehabilitation Component 2/
Phulpur Plant                      11.4             10.4              21.8
Kalol Plant                        24.9             16.1              41.0
Kandla Plant                       10.3              7.2              17.5
Sub total - Base Cost Estimate   46.6              33.7              80.3
Total Base Cost Estimate         225.7            274.1             499.8
Physical Contingencies                7.4              7.4              14.8
Price Contingencies                  23.6             27.2              50.8
Total Installed Cost                256.7            308.7             565.4
Working Capital for Aonla            84.2              -                84.2
Interest During Construction         42.6             75.4             118.0
(c)  Performance Evaluation and       0.1              0.2               0.3
Control System Study
(d)  Fertilizer Imports Component    -               150.0             150.0
Total Financing Required       383.6            534.3             917.9
1/ Including taxes and excise duties estimated at $13.2 million.
2/ Including customs duty, taxes and excise duties estimated at $18.2
million.



-iil-
Financing Plan:                                 US$ Millions
Local           Foreign         Total
GOI, Suppliers Credits          169.3              81.3         250.6
IBRD                              -              302.2          302.2
OECF, Italy, Denmark              -               150.8         150.8
IFFCO and Cooperatives          132.5               -           132.5
Local Borrowing                  81.8               -            81.8
Total Financing Required   383.6              534.3         917.9
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year           FY87     FY88     FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92
Annual                     174.3     43.7      50.0     27.6       5.7     0.9
Cumulative                 174.3    218.0    268.0    295.6    301.3    302.2
Economic Bate of Return:    About 17X for the Aonla component (see text)
Appraisal Report:            No. 6025-IN, dated June 2, 1986.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO PROPOSED LOANS ONE TO GOI AND ONE TO IFFCO
FOR THE COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed loans;
the first to GOI in the amount of $150.2 million (equivalent) to finance a
portion of India's fertilizer imports and a study of the peformance evaluation
and control mechanisms, and the second to the Indian Farmers Fertiliser
Cooperative Ltd (IFFCO) with guarantee by the Government India (GOI) in the
amount of US$152.0 million (equivalent) to help finance the construction of a
greenfield fertilizer plant at Aonla in the state of Uttar Pradesh, and enhance
the operating efficiency of three of its existing plants. GOI would bear the
foreign exchange risk in its loan and IFFCO would bear the foreign exchange risk
on its loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "India:  Economic Situation and Development
Prospects" (6090-IN, dated May 9, 1986), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 12, 1986. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 760 mil-
lion (in mid-1985) and an average per capita income of about US$260.
Agriculture continues to dominate the economy, accounting for 36% of CDP, 23Z of
exports and about two-thirds of employment. The steady increase in population,
which continues at a rate of 2.2% a year, has put increasing pressure on natural
resources, in particular cultivable land.  By the mid-1960s, nearly all produc-
tive land had been brought under cultivation. While irrigation continues to
increase total cultivable area, an increasing share of the labor force will have
to be absorbed in non-agricultural activities. Industrial development has not
progressed rapidly enough to provide employment opportunities for the growing
labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with sig-
nificantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result the long-term
growth of per capita income has only averaged about 1.4% p.a. and close to
one-half of India's population continues to live below the poverty line. The
pervasiveness and intensity of poverty is such that its alleviation has been and
remains at the core of India's development strategy.
4.      During the 1950s and 1960s, India's economic performance was generally
characterized by slow economic growth, moderate inflation and a sustainable
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and Ir of the
President's Report for the Combined Cycle Power Project (No. P-4254-IN),
dated March 10, 1986.



-2-
external position. GDP rose at about 3.5%, with agriculture and industry grow-
ing at 1.8Z and 4.8% respectively; imports increased by 4.6Z and exports by 5.8%
a year. India was able to reduce its dependence on foodgrain imports from a
peak of 14X of total foodgrain consumption in 1966/67 to 4.5% by 1969/70 through
improvements in agricultural production, but progress in poverty alleviation was
slow mainly because of continued high population growth.
5.      In the early to mid-1970s, in response to a sharp deterioration in
India's terms of trade, the Government introduced various polity measures
designed to stimulate exports. This resulted in a large increase in export
growth to about 7.3% per annum in the 1970. compared with only 2.2% per annum
between 1950/51 and 1969/70. While expanding world markets, particularly in the
Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs
and more effective export incentives played a major role. The success in the
export expansion effort coupled with continued import substitution, particularly
of foodgrains resulted in a surplus on current account between 1976/77 and
1978/79, which was further enhanced by increased concessional aid flows. India
was thus in a relatively favorable position to deal with the increases in inter-
national oil prices, the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade and a series
of poor harvests. The comfortable foreign exchange position also played a major
role in the Government's decision to initiate import liberalization.
6.      Towards the end of the 1970s, India again faced considerable domestic
difficulties. In 1979/80 it experienced one of the country's worst droughts
which caused a large reduction in agricultural production. In addition,
industrial production, plagued by labor unrest and a vicious circle of supply
shortages (coal, power and transportation), failed to expand. These events
coincided with a second round of international oil price increases. As a
result, the current account reverted to a deficit position and the remarkable
price stability that the Indian economy enjoyed after 1975 came to an abrupt
end. The Government responded by mounting an adjustment program, which was
embodied in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81 - 1984/85). The program aimed at
raising the GDP growth rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% per annum
while adjusting the country's external balance to the adverse price developments
in world markets. The major elements of the program were alleviation of
infrastructure and supply constraints, increased energy independence, improved
efficiency in resource use, promotion of exports and efficient import
substitution.
Economic Performance Under the Sixth Plan
7.      Overall the Government's adjustment program has been effective despite
the severe drought in 1982/83 and a worsening of the external environment in the
early 1980s. During the Sixth Plan period, GDP grew by 5.1% per annum, I/ well
above India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. However, overall growth during the
1/ Actual GDP growth rate during the 1979/80-1984/85 period was 5.1% per
annum. However, this figure overstates the trend in recent years because
of the relatively low base year (1979/80). The 4.5% GDP growth per annum
and 3.3% annual agricultural growth between 1980/81-1983/84 (two "normal"
years) are more representative of the growth rates during the period.



-3-
first half of the 1980s has not been steady, mainly because of the effect of
uneven rainfall on agricultural production. In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy
substantially recovered from the 1979 drought, with real CDP growing by 7.6%
and 5.3Z, respectively. The recovery was particularly robust in agriculture
where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% in 1980/81 and 5.5%
in 1981/82. A severe drought in mid-1982 brought the economic recovery to a
halt. Agricultural output declined by 4%, which in turn reduced GDP growth to
only 1.8%, and put further strains on the balance of payments and domestic
resource situation. The timely implementation of various economic policies
relating to foodgrain imporLs, procurement and distribution, and the increased
allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the adverse effects of the
poor monsoon. An excellent monsoon combined with satisfactory performance of
the infrastructure sectors, in particular coal and transport, led to a recovery
of the economy in 1983/84. Agricultural output rose by 9%, industrial output by
4.5Z and overall GDP by 7.4Z. The power sector, however, emerged again as a
constraint on higher growth, especially in industry. In 1984/85, despite a
mediocre monsoon and difficult political circumstances, the aggregate growth of
the economy estimated to be 3.6%.
8.      During the Sixth Plan period, foodgrain production continued to grow
at an average annual rate of 2.6Z a year-sufficient to maintain a broad balance
between supply and steadily increasing domestic demand. The progress achieved
is an indication of the effectiveness of programs to expand irrigation,
strengthen extension and encourage efficient use of other agricultural inputs
which are being implemented. Bountiful harvests have led to record foodgrain
stocks in recent years. Over the past year, Government held stocks have
increased by more than 40%. Maintenance of ample, balanced operating stocks to
ensure smooth operation and even expansion of the public distribution system
remains a top priority of Indian agricultural policy. Yet, the financial cost
of foodgrain storage and subsidies represent a rapidly growing burden on the
budget.
9.     Growth of the industrial sector during the Sixth Plan period was slow and
uneven. Industrial growth averaged about 3.4Z a year--below the growth rates
achieved in the 1960s and 1970s. An inadequate policy environment, coupled with
depressed domestic demand, power and raw material shortages, as well as labor
unrest are the main causes for the slower than anticipated growth of the
industrial sector. After the severe drought in 1979/80, manufacturing output
grew at 1.7% in 1980/81 and 3.3% 1981/82. The drought in 1982/83, which led to
widespread shortfalls of agro-based raw materials and a sharp drop in the demand
for consumer durables, combined with a prolonged textile strike in Bombay,
reduced the growth of industrial output to 1.7% in that year. Following the
excellent monsoon in 1983184, industrial output gained momentum and grew by
5.0%. Preliminary estimates place ths growth of the manufacturing sector at
about 5.5% in 1984/85.
10.     The performance of the infrastructure sectors was mixed under the Sixth
Plan. While electric power generation, coal production and railway traffic grew
by 8.7%, 6% and 2.5% a year respectively, oil and gas production increased by
22.6%. The rapid expansion of domestic oil production is largely the result of
India's oil development program. Backed by substantial financial commitment,
performance under the program has been excellent with real investment and oil
production levels running well ahead of Plan targets. In 1984/85 domestic oil



-4-
production is estimated to have reached 29.4 million tons. While the gap
between domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, India's
dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to 30% in
1984/85. About two-thirds of current output comes from offshore fields around
Bombay High. As most of these fields have now reached their mature stage,
further increases in domestic oil production will have to come mainly from new
discoveries.
11.     India's economy reverted from a situation of a resource surplus in the
late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit during the Sixth Plan period. The
gap between gross investment and national savings increased from negligible
levels to an average of 2.1Z of GDP in 1980-85. Gross domestic capital forma-
tion increased from an average of 22.6% of GDP in 1975-80 to 24.7% in 1980-85
while gross national savings remained constant at an average of 22.6% of GDP in
both periods. The increase in capital formation mainly resulted from an
increase in the public investment rate, but it was largely a financial rather
than a real phenomenon since prices of investment goods increased considerably
faster than the general price level.
12.     The basic thrust of fiscal policy during the Sixth Plan was to provide
sufficient resources for growth and planned investment while maintaining infla-
tion under control. However, the Sixth Plan period was characterized by sig-
nificant budgetary resource constraints. Despite massive additional resource
mobilization efforts, public sector deficits exceeded 7% of GDP as compared to
only 4-5% of GDP during the mid-1970s. The shortfall was met by additional
market borrowings, both domestically and from abroad and by deficit financing.
Major reasons behind the large deficits were continued losses by most
departmentally-run undertakings, unsatisfactory performance of the two major
non-departmental undertakings of the States (the State Electricity Boards and
the State Road Transport Corporations), and the increasing importance of sub-
sidies which are estimated to have reached 2.8% of GDP in 1984/85. Of these,
fertilizer subsidy accounted for more than 0.8% of GDP, and food subsidies
nearly 0.5% of GDP.
13.     Developments in the savings-investment balances were mirrored in the
balance of payments.  Thus, India's current account balance, which had recorded
surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging
US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during 1980-85. Several developments contributed
to these relatively large deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a more
liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Fourth, export growth was
sluggish partly due to growing domestic demand, and, perhaps most significantly,
due to depressed foreign markets and prices. Faced with a growing need for
external capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional
assistance, india drew SDR 3.9 billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the
IMF and borrowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar
market and increased the use of suppliers' and export credits.



-5-
14.     Price performance during the Sixth Plan period has been mixed.  The
overall improvement in economic Derformance in the early 1980s, combined with
more restrictive monetary policies in 1981/82 and 1982/83, resulted in a sharp
decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate of wholesale prices declined
from 182 in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83. The lagged effects of shortages of
foodgrains in 1982/83 and of other agricultural products and industrial goods in
1983/84 coupled with a rise in the domestic cost of imports and rapid liquidity
growth, gave a boost to inflationary pressures towards the end of 1983/84. The
annual average growth of wholesale prices rose to over 9% in 1983/84, and the
rate of growth of consumer prices exceeded 12%. In SepLember 1984, the
Government took a number of measures to dampen pressure on prices including
increased imports of important agricultural commodities (sugar, jute, coconut
oil and others), releases of sugar stocks for distribution through fair price
shops, and a reduction in wheat prices for flour mills. These measures,
together with a decline in cereal prices as a result of the bumper crop in
1983/84 and a generally restrictive budgetary policy, led to a slowdown in the
rate of increase of wholesale prices to about 7.1% in 1984/85.
15.     Developments in the Indian economy during the Sixth Plan underscore the
progress that has been made in recent years towards accelerated GDP growth,
external adjustment, and increased investment. The experience of recent years
illustrates that India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid
pace. It is a tribute both to the fundamental soundness of key policies and
programs, particularly in agriculture, and to the strength and effectiveness of
public administration, that neither the serious political disturbances in
Punjab, nor the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, resulted in
significant disruptions to the performance of the economy in the last year of
the Sixth Plan. But the results during the Plan period also highlight the
disappointing performance of industry, the continuing shortfalls in electric
power generation, the rising public sector deficits, the importance of regaining
and sustaining momentum in export growth and the need for continued prudent
economic management so as to avoid a resurgence of inflation while generating
adequate resources for development. This mixture of achievements and challenges
provides the context for an assessment of development prospects and policies.
Development Prospects and Policies
16.     To deal effectively with its dual challenges of alleviating pervasive
poverty and expanding employment opportunities for a growing labor force, the
Seventh Plan aims at sustaining an annual rate of growth of GDP of at least 5Z.
The Seventh Plan lays down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90, and
continues the emphasis on agriculture, energy development, export promotion,
domestic import substitution where economically justifiable and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks.
17.     Achieving a GDP growth of around 5% a year will place heavy demands on
policy adjustment and entail major challenges. India will need to:
(a) maintain the recent higher rate of expansion of agricultural production;
(b) accelerate industrial production and export growth through policy changes
which enhance competition and efficiency; (c) expand supply capacities in the
economy by improving basic infrastructure services and the availability of
energy; (d) improve the efficiency with which resources are used, including



-6-
particularly the existing capital stock in infrastructure and industry; and
(e) further improve the already high resource mobilization effort.
18.     Agriculture.  Despite an impressive performance under the Sixth Plan,
Indian agriculture faces many chaLlenges in the second half of the decade. As
possibilities for extending cultivated acreage shrink, agricultural growth will
depend on finding new ways of increasing the productivity of land through fur-
ther development of irrigation, better water management, more intensive use of
new technology, efficient delivery of inputs and services, and appropriate
pricing policies. High priority must be given to the expansion of the country's
irrigable area through completion of ongoing irrigation projects, as well as
selective investment in new undertakings. Besides creating new irrigation
potential, the efficiency of irrigated farming will have to be enhanced through
the improvement of water management practices in existing irrigation systems.
Greater emphasis should al3o be given to obtaining higher yields under rainfed
and dryland farming conditions. Finally, even greater efforts must be made to
build and strengthen institutions to ensure the efficient delivery of agricul-
tural services, input supplies, credit and technology.
19.     Industry and Trade.   Prospects for raising India's GDP growth rate
will, to a large extent, depend on more rapid industrial production and export
growth to be attained through improved productivity and efficiency. A key
requirement will be greater competitive pressure on industry than has been the
case in the past. The size and domestic orientation of the Indian economy make
it necessary that this competitive pressure come mainly from within the domestic
economy. An important complement, however, will be greater exposure to foreign
trade to stimulate domestic competition as well as to induce technological
innovation and modernization.
20.     To increase domestic competition, domestic policies will need to allow
freer entry and exit of firms in the industrial sector and greater reliance on
market price signals. While the Government has taken various initiatives in the
above directions during the past several years, the most significant were
announced in the context of the 1985/86 Budget. These include the broadening of
licensing categories for certain industries, delicensing for others, increases
in the size limits for MRTP 1/ and small-scale industries, reductions in the
incentive for small-scale industries to stay small and various initiatives to
stimulate efficient indigenization of 'sunrise' industries (energy exploration
equipment, computers, telecommunication equipment, motor vehicles and parts,
general electronics). These are significant advances that need to be sustained
in future years.
21.     Changes in external trade policy will also be required to stimulate
export growth which is essential riot only for current financing of imports, but
to enhance borrowing capacity, to service debt, to provide an impetus to the
economy from the demand side, and to expose entrepreneurs to the quality-
consciousness of competitive external markets. While some changes have been
recently introduced, there remains a need to: (a) provide greater access to
imported inputs and capital goods through continued import liberalization;
1/ Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969.



-7-
(b) review tariffs, eliminating anomalies and lowering their overall level; and
(c) modify trade policies in such a way that the net impact of incentives is
more neutral between exports and import substitution.
22.     Infrastructure Sectors.  Investments in these sectors currently con-
stitute about one-third of total investment in India, and the efficiency with
which these investments are managed has an important bearing on the efficiency
of total investment and the growth rate of the entire economy. There is sub-
stantial evidence that better plaanming and management of public investments in
power, coal, railways and irrigation could improve returns and lower the current
capital-output ratios. For example, more efficient use of investment could be
achieved by better water management in irrigation projects, improved load 'ac-
tors in thermal power generatior., better capacity utilization in the fertilizer
industry and improved efficiency in railway transport.
23.     Resource Mobilization.  India's gross national savings rate (22.6% in
1980-85) is already high for a country at India's level of income.
Nevertheless, the investment required to sustain the relatively high GDP growth
rates realized during the Sixth Plan period--while holding foreign savings as a
share of GDP at prudent levels-will require some further increase in the
aggregate savings rate especially in public savings. Because there will con-
tinue to be well-founded demands for expansion of current and capital expendi-
tures in the public sector, the burden for a reduction in the savings investmant
gap has to be put on the revenue side. Increasing tax rates beyond their cur-
rent high levels would be counter productive. Thus, economically efficient
pricing policies in public enterprises, supported by improvements in their
operational efficiency, are to be preferred over tax increases as vehicles for
increased public resource mobilization. The sheer size of past and present
public enterprise investment indicates that if proper returns were made even
only a part of them, an increase in revenues of about 3% of GDP would be
attainable. In a number of sectors, e.g. thermal power, railways, and
fertilizer, concerted efforts are being made--with Bank assistance-to increase
efficiency and reduce costs. These efforts need to be improved and expanded
into new areas.
24.     Balance of Payments.  A policy of sustained GDP growth of 5Z per annum
will need to be complemented by measures which assure a viable balance of pay-
ments position. Acceleration of industrial growth will lead to a substantial
increase in import requirements, even after allowing for continued import sub-
stitution of key bulk comodity items.  Bank staff estimates place the export
volume growth necessary to support these growing import requirements without
excessive increases in external borrowing at about 8% a year over the Seventh
Plan period. Prospects for India to attain the needed higher export growth
rates appear to be reasonably good because India's share in total world exports
in value terms is only about 0.4%, leaving ample room for growth. Furthermore,
India's exports are relatively less sensitive to fluctuations in demand in the
OECD industrial countries because exports are well diversified with respect to
both products and markets. Nevertheless, success in India's export drive will
depend heavily on changes in domestic policy to improve the supply and
profitability of exports.
25.     Even assuming favorable export performance, India will continue to need
substantial external capital flows to augment its own resources for the foresee-



-8-
able future. Even with 8% export growth, the 5% GDP growth implies an increase
in gross capital inflows from US$17.5 billion to US$34.5 billion between the
Sixth and Seventh Plan periods. In the past, the bulk of this financing was
provided in the form uf official development assistance. In more recent years
the availability of concessional assistance to India has declined. Total
bilateral grants and concessional loans declined from a level of about
US$1.3 billion per annum over the years 1979/80-1981/82 to US$1 billion in
1983/84. Moreover, there was a large deterioration in the terms of aid from
multilateral sources. For example, while total lending from the Bank Group
continued to increase in nominal terms, the grant element declined from 71Z to
41Z as new commitments of IDA declined from a peak of $1,535 million in FY80 to
$673 million in FY85 and about $640 million in FY86.
26.     In the event that official develnpment assistance does not increase
significantly from recent levels, nearly the full additional financing required
would have to be provided from additional non-concessional borrowing from offi-
cial and commercial sources. Thi- -ill increase India's debt service ratio from
the present level of 15.5% to 21.6% by 1989/90. Provided India can in fact,
expand export earnings along the lines described earlier, and provided India's
past record of prudent borrowing and debt management continues, the country
should be able to raise the projected amounts. While its foreign resource
requirements would be manageable, the increase in its external debt exposure
would leave it with little cushion to deal with unfavorable eventualities and
with the risks of policy change.
27.     In the short term, a relatively large level of external borrowing,
including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to
cope with the balance of payments consequences of the growth strategy described
earlier. Althcugh India is currently in a position to increase borrowing on
commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather than
accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. While therefore a greater
volume of both official concessional and non-concessional assistance is
warranted, concessional assistance, in particular, will be invaluable in
moderating the build-up in India's debt service burden. Apart from the quan-
titative arguments for concessional aid, there remains the imperative to assist
India in addressing the problems of pervasive poverty. While Ini.;a is now
better placed than other poor countries to tackle its development problems, the
mobilization of additional resources to address poverty problems is heavily
constrained. Concessional assistance can also play a very important role in
relieving this constraint.
28.     Summary.  India has demonstrated that it can sustain a rate of growth
closer to 5.0Z per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per annum. If the
rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth
rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita income of
1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a significant difference to
the prospects of easing poverty in India. Development prospects over the next
few years will hinge on the extent to which the economy can be brought into both
internal and external balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid
growth than in the past. This will require the continuation of the current
development strategy which assigns high priority to export promotion, public



-9-
finance discipline, improvement of economic efficiency, and investment in
infrastructure, supported by adequate flows of external borrowing and aid.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
29.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 93 loans and 183 development credits
to India totalling US$8,735 million and US$13,809 million (both net of
cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,633 million has been
repaid, and US$8,743 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1986. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1986
totalled US$1,003 million, representing an increase of about 28 percent over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1986.
30.     Since 1959, IFC has made 36 commitments in Lidia totalling
US$310 million, of which a total of US$186 million has been repaid, sold, ter-
minated or cancelled. Of the balance of US$124 million, USt118 million repre-
sents loans and US$6 million equity. A suimmary statement of IFC disbursements
as of March 31, 1986, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
31.     The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's d-velopment objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development dRsigned to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered economic
growth in India, particularly through power generation and distribution, and
railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has also provided
financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises,
primarily in the private sector, through its support of development finance
institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability to satisfy
the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group has supported
nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as well as water
supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
32.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the the Seventh Plan. First, high
priority will continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India
has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to
be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to con-
tribute to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will con-
tinue to support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and
agricultural extension, research and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in
promoting greater efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector,
increased assistance will be provided for industrial development. Third, in
line with the stress which the Seventh Plan gives to the expansion and more
efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the development of India's
indigenous hydrocarbon resources, the Bank Group will continue to provide sub-
stantial support to the development of the energy, transport and telecommunica-
tions sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in both



-10-
the agricultural and industrial sectors. Fourth, support of urban development
and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor will also continue in
light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lowering birth and
death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year.
33.     The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in support
of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank
economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in
part to the response of the aid coummnity, India successfully adjusted to the
changed world price si nation of the mid-1970s. However, India continues to
require a substantial levei uo  foreign assistance both to offset the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the relatively
higher investment and growth rates achieved during the Sixth Plan period. As in
the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as
agriculture and irrigation.
34.     India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.5 billion
in FY80, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to supple-
ment IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments.  India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not adver-
sely affect India's creditworthiness.
35.     Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion contributed
by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1970/71, the Bank Group accounted
for 22% of total commitments, 11% of gross disbursements, and 10% of net disbur-
sements as compared with 68Z, 38Z and 47%, respectively, in 1984/85.  In
1984/85, about 26.3Z of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1985, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.5 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$11.1 billion or 42% (IDA's US$8.9 billion and IBRD's US$2.2 billion). As
of March 31, 1986 outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$20,911 million, of which US$8,743 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$12,168 million.



-11-
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
Background
36.     India's fertilizer industry accounts for about 4% of the total output
of the organized industrial sector, and in 1984/85, represented about 0.6% of
GDP at factor cost. The subsector employs about 79,000 people, representing
about 0.7Z of total employment in the sector. The industry comprises 42
manufacturing plants owned and operated by 27 producers. Twenty-two of the
plants are owned wholly or partly by GOI, sixteen plants are owned by private
sector groups and the remaining four are owned and operated by cooperative
sector companies including the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative, Ltd.
(IFFCO). Plant capacity utilization rates, though increasing, vary widely.
Average capacity utilization of publicly owned plants has increased from 41%
in 1980/81 to 60% in 1984/85. Average capacity utilization of privately
owned plants for the same period has increased from 612 to 91%, while in the
cooperative sector, utilization rates have consistently remained near or
above 100%.
The Indian Fertilizer Market
37.     Supply and Demand.  Increased fertilizer use is central to India's
efforts to increase agricultural output. Indigenous production capacity of
both nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers has grown from 148,000 metric
tons of nutrient per year (tyn) in 1952 to its current level of 6.9 million
tyn, of which 75X (5.2 million tyn) is nitrogenous fertilizer production
capacity. Both the production techno'logies and plant design capacities have
changed over the period and have generally followed international trends
towards more energy-efficient, larger capacity manufacturing facilities.
Plant locational decisions have been made in the light of regional
supply/demand requirements, raw materials sources, and infrastructure
considerations. Feedstock choice for nitrogen fertilizer initially favored
naphtha, then fuel oil and, still later, coal so as to decrease the country's
dependences on imported hydrocarbons. Following the discovery of large
quantities of natural gas near Bombay, most of the new nitrogen plants have
been, and will be based on this feedstock. India is currently the fourth
largest fertilizer producer in the world, after the USA, USSR, and China.
38.     In spite of this impressive build-up of production capacity, the
country, today, faces a supply gap of some 3.0 million tyn at an FOB cost of
about US$750 million. While fertilizer consumption has grown at an average
rate of 14% per annum over the past 25 years, there is considerable potential
for continued strong growth. Application rates in India, which average 36.6
kg of nutrient per hectare, are low in comparison to other developing
countries l/ and there are widespread disparities in fertilizer usage among
1/ Comparable figures for Mexico, Brazil, and China are 67 kg/ha, 79 kg/ha,
and 150 kg/ha respectively.



-12-
states within India. While the Punjab averages 149 kg/ha, some other states
use as little as 12 kg/ha. By 1991, in spite of the planned increased
production capacity, demand is expected to outstrip supply by at least 1.2
million tyn and, depending on various assumptions as to growth rates, the gap
could again be as high as 3.7 million tyn by 1994/95.
India's Fertilizer Investment Strategy
39.     Given the expected shortfall in domestic production and the large
quantities of natural gas available from newly discovered fields, the prin-
cipal thrust of India's investment program in fertilizers is to expand
nitrogen production through the construction of 10 large ammonia/urea plants.
Four have been completed; two are under construction; the seventh (the
proposed Aonla plant) is now at an initial stage of implementation; and a
further three are planned to be owned and operated in the private sector.
All will use natural gas from the Bombay High and South Bassein offshore
fields as feedstock and most will use common process technologies.
40.     In addition to establishing new facilities, GOI is keenly aware that,
in order to mitigate the cost of imports, the utilization of existing
capacity must be improved. In consultation with the Bank, GOI has in
progress a comprehensive program of plant-by-plant studies particularly
focussing on some of the public sector-owned manufacturing facilities to
determine technical rehabilitation measures that would permit higher capacity
utilization and energy conservation to reduce operating costs, and to iden-
tify uneconomic units for closure.
Previous Bank Group Operations
41.     The Bank Group has supported the fertilizer industry in India through
twelve projects with a total financial contribution of about $1.1 billion.
The financing has been through IDA for seven projects, IFC for three
projects, and IBRD for two projects. These projects aimed primarily at
expanding and balancing the expansion of capacity in the public sector.
According to their project completion reports, three (Cochin, Cr. 624-IN;
Gorakhpur, Cr. 279-IN; and Nangal Cr. 357-IN) experienced completion delays
due to delays in finalizing engineering arrangements, late delivery of
equipment, and/or poor management. A Project Completion Report (SEC M83-69,
June 22 1983) on the Bank-financed Phulpur project owned by IFFCO pointed out
the need for improved implementation, monitoring and management systems;
prompt Government decision-making; and greater selectivity in the use of
engineering technologies and equipment. A report being issued by the
Operations Evaluation Department (Sustainability of Projects-Review of
Experience in the Fertilizer Subsector) on all projects in the sector con-
cludes that the transfer of technology is an ongoing process, and that the
Bank Group has an important role to play. It cautions against using too
optimistic estimates of plant construction times and points to the need for
project sponsors to be selective in choosing domestic suppliers of services
and equipment. The proposed project has been prepared with these lessons in
mind. All legal covenants in the earlier projects were and/or are being met.



-13-
Fertilizer Prices and Subsidies
42.     Both the retail and ex-factory fertilizer prices are administered by
the Government. The ex-factory or so-called "retention" price is set accord-
ing to a formula that, on a plant-by-plant basis, will enable the producing
unit to earn a 12Z post-tax return on capital employed when operating at 80%
capacity utilization and at certain agreed input consumption norms. Urea 1/
retention prices for the various plants vary widely and currently range from
a low of US$128/ton to a high of US$377/ton, depending on technology and
feedstock used, plant age, cost of feedstock and other factors. The weighted
average retention price for all plants during 1984/85 was US$238/ton, which,
with the cost of freight and distribution margins, brought the average
farmgate cost of domestic urea to US$263/ton. While the retention price
system has certain advantages, it does not strongly encourage producers to
improve the efficiency of the production--since it allows them to recover
most costs--and, being separately calculated for each plant, does not gener-
ate the necessary element of competition among manufacturers. As part of. the
initiatives being undertaken by the Government at this time, there is a major
review of the retention pricing mechanism to ensure that the pricing
mechanism stimulates competition among producers using similar technology,
feedstock and equipment and to encourage lower operating costs. Support for
these measures is built into this project (see para. 53).
43.     The farmgate price for the different types of fertilizers is uniform
throughout India and is set at levels that ensure that farmers have suffi-
cient incentives to increase fertilizer usage and therefore crop outputs.
GOI has maintained farmgate prices practically constant for a number of years
in keeping with its policy of stimulating agricultural production through
increased fertilizer application. The current price of urea, at US$181/ton
is about 30Z below the current average farmgate cost of domestically produced
fertilizer of US$263/ton--implying a substantial budget subsidy. The incen-
tive to farmers to use fertilizer obviously depends not only on fertilizer
prices, but also on crop prices and on crop response rates. At current
levels, the use of fertilizer is profitable for Indian farmers and a study of
prices, crop response rates and fertilizer usage is currently underway.
44.     The Fertilizer Subsidy.  Since current average retention prices are
above retail prices, a Government budget subsidy is required to sustain the
producer margins. The overall cost of the subsidy has risen rapidly during
the 1980s, largely because of sharp increases in the retention prices for
many existing fertilizer plants 2/ and the coming on stream of new plants
with above average retention prices. In 1979/80, the total fertilizer budget
subsidy amounted to US$745 million. By 1984/85, the subsidy had reached
1/ Urea is the most common form of nitrogenous fertilizer sold in India.
2/ A major factor in the rising retention prices was higher energy costs,
which constitute 50% of the production costs of urea. These rose dramati-
cally between 1979 and 1985. Natural gas prices increased 1290%, naphtha
155% and power 75%.



-14-
US$1440 million and is expected to exceed US$1.5 billion in 1985/86.
However, not all of this subsidy represents a net outflow of funds from the
Covernment's budget. Currently, about half of the subsidy related to domes-
tically produced nitrogenous fertilizer is actually transferred to gas and
energy suppliers as payments under the retention price for energy and
feedstock costs are higher than international energy prices or compensates
for duties and taxes charged on capital equipment (which are reflected in
the capital costs of existing fertilizer plants).
45.     The level of total economic 1/ subsidy is also substantial and
amounted to US$1.1 billion or US$87/ton in 1984/85 - virtually all of which
was attributable to users since, on average, the retention price closely
matched the economic cost of fertilizer during that year. If, longer term,
international prices (FOB Europe) tend toward a projected equilibrium level
of around US$190/ton by 1990 and if there is no further increase in farmgate
or retention prices, the economic subsidy would increase to around US$115 per
ton and the need to progressively reduce the cost of the overall subsidy to
the levels implied in its public statements will require concerted action by
GOI to both reduce producer prices and increase user prices. Apart from the
political ramifications of substantial and repeated user price increases, the
disincentive effects on fertilizer use will clearly have to be taken into
account and, in addition, production costs will have to be reduced.
46.     The Government has recognized the need to reduce the burden of the
subsidy and has already undertaken a number of major steps. First it has
committed itself publicly to reduce the subsidy--the Long Term Fiscal Policy
(LTFP) Statement issued recently calls for a reduction in the total food and
fertilizer subsidy from 1.4Z of GDP in 1984/85 to an average of 1.1 over the
Plan period (1985/86 - 1989/90), a goal that implies a substantial reduction
in fertilizer subsidies. Second, it has recently (February 1986) increased
the retail price of urea by 10Z--the immediate effect of which is to reduce
the budget subsidy by about 20Z below what it would have been without this
increase. Third, it has nearly completed two major studies, one which
examines the need for changes in the retention price system to more ade-
quately reflect market conditions, and the other examines all aspects of the
price/subsidy question with reference to crop prices and input/output ratios.
The results of both of these reports are expected later in 1986 and will
provide the framework for the actions to be taken over the next few years to
meet the LTFP goal. GOI would review the conclusions of the reports with the
Bank and, in implementing the recommendations, take the Bank's views into
account. Finally it has agreed, in the context of the proposed project that,
in order to meet the subsidy-reduction targets implied in the LTFP, it will
have to meet a series of successively more stringent performance targets for
1/ The economic subsidy in India's situation of being a net importer of
fertilizers, consists of two components: first, a user subsidy that is
the difference between the farmgate price and the delivered cost of
imports; and second, a producer subsidy that is the difference between
the delivered cost of imports and the delivered cost of domestically
produced fertilizer.



-15-
all fertilizer plants and the distribution system. The year-by-year targets
are outlined in Annex V of this report.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
47.     The Bank Group's principal objective in the past has been to support
India's strategy for increasing domestic production of basic commodities such
as fertilizer in which India has a comparative production advantage. It has
played a central role in helping to build domestic capacity, and in helping
individual plants optimize design and technology choice and avoid delays in
implementation and commissioning. Through assistance from foreign licensors
and equipment suppliers, domestic engineering and contracting firms have been
able to build their capabilities to a point where domestic replication of new
generation, large scale fertilizer plants is feasible. Over the next 5-6
years the Bank envisages a series of three projects, including the proposed
project, that adds a focus on rehabilitation of additional existing plants
and upgrading of the fertilizer distribution network, while maintaining a
dialogue with, and supporting the Government in its efforts to reduce fer-
tilizer costs and the level of subsidies. If the Government is to achieve
the ambitious targets it has set for itself in terms of subsidy reduction,
considerable adjustment costs will be incurred over the next five years as
plants invest in upgraded production and energy efficiency and distribution
facilities. Many of these measures are the result of the Bank's dialogue
with the Government and the fertilizer industry, and the Bank is supporting
GOI's efforts in taking these initiatives by including in the project a $150
million imports component that first, partially meets GOI's immediate
requirements for fertilizer imports to bridge the domestic production
shortfall, and second, in the medium term, frees up that amount of GOI funds
to make the efficiency investments required to meet the targets--investments
which, individually, would be too small for inclusion in a cost-effective
IBRD project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.     The project was appraised in July 1985.  Negotiations were held in
Washington in April/May 1986 with the Indian delegation coordinated by Mr. V.
K. Malhotra of the Government's Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of
Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6025-IN) dated June 2 is being
circulated separately. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
49.     The main objectives of the proposed project are to expand domestic
nitrogenous fertilizer production capacity, thereby lessening India's depend-
ence on imports, and to improve the operational efficiency of existing plants
in the cooperative sector. The resulting reduction in fertilizer imports
also lessens the burden on India's internal transportation system and
increased domestic production capacity also reduces the chances of supply
interruptions at critical times due to shipping, port, and/or transportation
congestion or delays--thus enabling farmers to more efficiently prepare their
crops. The focus of the proposed project is consistent with the Bank's
strategy for the industrial sector which is to give encouragement and finan-



-16-
cial support to such industrial and other policy shifts as are now being
considered and to provide project assistance for those initiatives designed
to improve the competitive position of those entities engaged in raising
productivity and reducing unit costs.
50.     The project would include (i) construction of a natural gas-based
plant to produce 423,000 metric tons per year (tpy) of amonia in order to
produce 690,000 tpy of urea, together with related offsite and utility
facilities at Aonla in the State of Uttar Pradesh; (ii) rehabilitation of
three existing plants in the cooperative sector to increase production and
energy efficiencies; (iii) the preparation of a study for a management per-
formance control, signalling and incentive scheme for India's public sector
plants similar to that used in other countries; and (iv) imports of finished
fertilizers and raw materials required for the manufacture of fertilizers in
the early years prior to the start-up of the proposed Aonla manufacturing
plant. The Bank would lend a total of US$152 million to IFFCO (the IFFCO
loan) for the Aonla and rehabilitation components and US$150.2 million to GOI
(the GOI loan) for the imports component (US$150.0 million) and for carrying
out the study (US$200,000).
Detailed Features
51.     The Aonla component, for which the Bank would provide US$112 million,
consists of (a) a single-train 1350 tons per day (tpd) amonia unit; (b) two
1100 tpd urea units; (c) integrated power and steam generation facilities;
(d) cooling water and effluent treatment facilities; (e) storage for about
10,000 tons of refrigerated aimmonia and about 45,000 tons of bulk urea, and
associated bagging facilities; (f) other related offsites; and (g)
infrastructures, including a township with about 1000 housing units. The
annonia unit employs technology from Haldor Topsoe A/S (Denmark) and both the
design and capacity is the same as that used in the Bank-financed Madhya
Pradesh Fertilizer project (Ln. 2415-IN). The two urea units use the
ammonia-stripping technology offered by Snamprogetti (Italy) and the design
and size is similar to that used successfully in several other plants in
India.
52.     The rehabilitation component, for which the Bank would provide US$40
million, consists of investments at three existing plants: at Phulpur,
investments would include replacement of furnace tubing, larger coal grinding
mills and other measures to be identified by an "end-to-end" energy audit and
engineering study to be carried out under the project; at Kalol, major
upgrades are required to the plant which was commissioned in 1975, including
rehabilitation of the urea plant, modifications to the primary reformers,
replacement of heat exchangers, purchase of better inspection equipment, and
additional ammonia storage; and at the Kandla plant, modifications would
include retrofitting of two of the process trains with improved reactors,
additional storage and product bagging facilities, and supplementary seawater
desalination units.
53.     The performance evaluation and control system cimponent, for which
the Bank would provide US$200,000, would, as an important institution-
building element, further develop the management information system now being



-17-
implemented by the Department of Fertilizers and would incorporate:
(i) periodic evaluation of individual company and plant financial
performance; (ii) a signalling system to highlight variations from estab-
lished performance standards; (iii) a control mechanism to monitor progress
of corrective actions being taken; and (iv) a management performance incen-
tive scheme to foster improved plant operatiors. The terms of reference of
the study to design the new system which would comence no later than
November 1, 1986 and be carried out by June 30, 1987, will be agreed by June
30, 1986.
54.     Fertilizer and associated raw material imports to the value of US150
million, would also be financed under the project to support GOI's efforts to
increase production efficiency, improve pricing policy and reduce the
subsidy. India is currently importing about US$500-750 million of fer-
tilizers each year to make up the shortfall in domestic production so this
import component will still only finance about 12X of imports for a two-year
period. However it will free up an equivalent amount of resources to make
investments needed to raise the efficiency of production and distribution.
Project Implementation
55.     The Aonla component of the project would be constructed, owned and
operated by the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd. (IFFCO), a company
established in 1967. The company is well managed, has satisfactory internal
and external audit arrangements, management systems and capital structure.
It employs approximately 5000 staff of whom nearly 2000 are professionally
qualified. The in-house training systems are extensive and appropriate to
the needs of the organization. The Board of 31 Members has delegated suffi-
cient powers to the management to carry out its mandate effectively.
Consequently it is considered that there would be little, if any, managerial
risk in having IFFCO implement the project. Preparations for the Aonla plant
are complete and, as of March 1986, the engineering, procurement and con-
struction activities on the process units were 74Z, 441 and 141 complete
respectively (in physical terms). Detailed engineering will be completed and
most major equipment orders placed by mid 1986. The Aonla plant is expected
to be completed by October 1988, although for purposes of financial and
economic analysis, a more conservative, and typical profile has been assured
with a completion date of December 31, 1989.
56.     IFFOO will also undertake the rehabilitation component.  The many
sub-components (about 29 separate improvements are envisaged) are each
expected to take from one to three years to complete, and all would be com-
pleted by end 1990. The standard six-year disbursement profile has been
assumeu in preparing the project economic estimates because of the possible
difficulties of managing a large number of sub-projects simultaneously in
three different plant locations. The final selection of design and engineer-
ing requirements, although not yet definitive, is to be agreed between IFFCO
and the Bank and will be based on proven technology: most will involve the
installation of packaged units of standard designs. GOI confirmed, during
negotiations, that it expected that all necessary approvals would be provided
by December 31, 1986 and IFFCO would, by December 31, 1986, furnish to the



-18-
Bank for its approval a detailed plan for the management and execution of the
rehabilitation component.
57.     The study of performance evaluation and control systems would be
undertaken by internationally recruited consultants under the direction and
responsibility of the Department of Fertilizers. Costs are based on an
estimate of 15 man-months at US$10,000 per man-month, plus computer costs and
local expenditures. The Mines and Minerals Trading Corporation, a government
entity would implement the imports component as part of its ongoing respon-
sibility for importing the country's total fertilizer requirements.
Marketing
58.     Close to 80% of the Aonla plant's urea production is expected to be
consumed in UP - the state where both the Aonla and the Phulpur plants are
located. IFFCO has established a solid, extensive, and competitive marketing
position in this the major fertilizer consuming state in India. It is
actively involved in extension efforts that are also supported by the Bank
and, as a result, no new market development or seeding initiatives are
required under the proposed project.
Environment
59.     The Aonla plant is located in a sparsely populated, non-fertile area.
The plant has been designed and will be operated to meet the liquid effluent
and gaseous emissions tolerances/limits according to Indian standards which
are comparable to those applied to similar facilities in industrialized
countries and which are considered satisfactory by the Bank. These design
criteria have been incorporated in the contracts between IFFCO and its
process consultants and form an integral part of the process guarantees to be
met by them without limit to their liabilities. For the rehabilitation
component, a number of the investments proposed at the three plants are
intended to reduce effluents and treat pollutants in order to comply with, or
improve on these same standards.
Gas Supply and Infrastructure
60.     Natural gas for the Aonla plant will be transported from the Bombay
High/South Bassein offshore gas fields via the HBJ pipeline as shown on Map
19363 attached. GOI has confirmed the timely availability of adequate gas
supplies for the Aonla plant and procurement of major items (including pipe)
for the HBJ pipeline is in progress. GOI has signed a contract with the
successful bidder for the construction of the pipeline and mobilization of
the construction teams has commenced. GOI would ensure adequate supplies of
gas to the project by no later than July 31, 1987. IFFCO and the Gas
Authority of India Ltd. (GAIL) would be required to conclude by June 30, 1987
a formal gas supply agreement that would be acceptable to the Bank. The
supply of gas to Aonla is a key component of the project and, in case of
unforeseen delays in construction or commissioning of the pipeline, provision
has been made to fire the steam generation units with liquid fuels (see
para. 70 below).



-19-
61.     Power for the Aonla component will be supplied, in part, from captive
power generation units and from a new twin 132kv transmission line from the
ezisting UP power grid to the project. The UP State Electricity Board has
sanctioned the required 8mw of power for the plant and provided assurances
that the state grid has adequate resources to provide the entire power
requirements of the complex on a temporary basis if necessary. Local surface
water sources are inadequate to supply the estimated 40,000 cubic meters per
day required of the project. Groundwater studies have indicated, however,
that a series of 15-16 tubewells, appropriately spaced, would meet the plant
and township needs without adversely affecting surrounding wells.
Project Costs and Financing
62.     The financing required for the project, including contingencies,
interest during construction, working capital, and the fertilizer imports
component is US$917.9 million, of which about US$534 million is in foreign
exchange. Taxes and duties included in the total cost amount to US$31.4
million. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 2% and 10Z of the
base costs of the Aonla and rehabilitation components, respectively, and
price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of escalations of 5%
for 1986, 62 for 1987 and 7X for 1988 and beyond. The proposed Bank loans
totalling $302.2 million would finance about 18% of the costs of the Aonla
component, 30% of the costs of the rehabilitation component, 66Z of the costs
of the study on performance evaluation and control systems, and 100Z of the
costs of fertilizer imports. The proposed loans to GOI and to IFFCO, with
GOI guarantee, would be for 15 years with a five-year grace period, at the
standard, variable rate. For the IFFCO loan, GOI would, in addition, charge
IFFCO a Guarantee Fee such that, together with IFFCO's cost of covering the
foreign exchange risk, the resulting effective interest cost on the Bank
funds to IFFCO would approximate the standard rate applicable for similar
industrial type loans in India (currently 13.75%).
63.     The additional debt financing requirement of US$330.8 million woulU
be financed, in part, by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
(OECF) in an amount of $126.8 million equivalent, by DANIDA, an agency of the
Danish Government, (US$6 million equivalent), and by the Italian Government
(US$18 million equivalent). Local borrowings and GOI would provide the
remaining debt requirements. Equity funds in the amount of US$284.9 million
would be provided by GOI, by the shareholder cooperatives and from IFFCO's
internal resources, including internal cash generation of the project itself.
Under the terms of the GOI guarantee agreement, GOI would promptly provide
IFFCO with any additional funds and facilities required to complete the
project and cover any possible cost overruns.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.     Equipment financed by the Bank loan for the project would be procured
primarily through international competitive bidding (ICB). Procurement
through limited international bidding (LIB) procedures would be permissible
for equipment from specialist suppliers and proprietary to the process design
(US$5 million) and small items under contracts each with an estimated value
of not more than US$200,000 (totalling about US$8.5 million) from qualified



-20-
local suppliers from at least three eligible countries; and also for
specialist erection/comissioning services supplied by vendors (about US$3.5
million) and engineering and consulting services (about US$13.5 million).
For purposes of bid evaluation under ICB procedures, qualified local sup-
pliers will receive a margin of preference of the lower of either 15%, or the
generally applicable duty for such goods. Prior Bank approval would be
required before awarding all contracts over US$500,0oo (estimated to cover
70% of the loan amount). Imports of fertilizers would also be procured in
economic shipping quantities in accordance with the Bank's LCB procedures.
65. The proposed loan would be disbursed against: (i) 100% of foreign
(CIF) or locally manufactured (ex-factory) costs for equipment, materials and
spare parts and 70% of other costs for items procured locally; (ii) 100% of
the costs of engineering and commissioning services by equipment suppliers;
(iii) 100% of foreign and 70Z of local costs for specialist transportation
services and for civil works and erection services within supply and erect
contracts, both let under ICB; (iv) 100% of the foreign cost of the study and
consultancy services for the rehabilitation component; and (v) 100% of the
foreign cost of imported fertilizers, net of duties and taxes. Disbursements
will be made under Statements of Expenditure for payments relating to con-
tracts with a value below US$500,000. Retroactive financing in the amount
not to exceed US$11.2 million for procurement of long lead time items would
be provided for eligible expenditures made after July 31, 1985.
Financial Evaluation of IFFCO
66.     Largely because of high capacity utilization of existing plants and
sound management, IFFCO's financial position is strong. It has earned ade-
quate returns and its financial ratios are better than the standard bench-
marks considered prudent for the industry. Profits are expected to rise
rapidly once the Aonla plant comes on stream. Capacity utilization from year
1991 is expected to be 95% or better. In order to ensure IFFCO's continued
financial soundness, IFFCO would (i) maintain its debt-equity ratio at a
level not greater than 60:40; (ii) maintain a ratio of current assets to
current liabilities of at least 1.2:1 after completion of the project; (iii)
not incur any additional debt if its projected debt service coverage ratio
would be less than 1.3; (iv) not make additional investments in fixed assets
during implementation of the project in excess of an aggregate US$80,000,000
equivalent (representing mostly projects already under execution); and (v)
not prepay any debt or declare any dividends if such action would result in
the current ratio falling below 1.4:1. The financial rate of return (FRR) of
the project is an acceptable 12% which is lower than the economic rate of
return of about 17%, primarily because the projected urea retention prices
are lower than their projected economic values and domestic energy prices are
projected to be above their projected economic values (para.69 below).
Audits and Accounts
67.     IFFCO would also submit, in a form satisfactory to the Bank (a) its
annual audited financial reports within nine months from the end of its
financial year, (b) monthly construction progress reports until commissioning
of all components is completed, and (c) not later than 30 days after the end



-21-
of each quarter, quarterly financial statements for IFFCO. As is usual
practice, IFFCO would also prepare a project completion report. GOI, for its
part, would provide a quarterly report on the implementation of the fer-
tilizer imports program and the study in a form satisfactory to the Bank.
Benefits and Risks
68.     The project will ireate about 1200 permanent jobs and an additional
3000 jobs at the peak construction phase of the plant at Aonla. Local
engineering firms involved in the project will gain valuable experience and
know-how, a?' the project will have significant backward linkages into the
industrial sCLor, creating additional jobs and investments.
69.     The economic rate of return (ERR) of the Aonla component is about
17%, based on projected equilibrium international fertilizer and energy
prices and completion of the plant in a conservatively estimated 63 months.
The rate is sensitive to changes in product prices, and, to a lesser extent,
to operating costs. A 10Z drop in fertilizer prices would reduce the ERR to
14.8Z. A one year delay in start-up or a 20% increase in capital costs would
reduce the ERR to 14.8% or 14.2Z, respectively-rates that are still
acceptable. A reduction of 30Z in projected energy costs (equivalent to a
long term oil price of US$13.00 per barrel) would increase the ERR to 20%
if fertilizer prices remained at currently projected levels. Some of the
rehabilitation sub-projects have directly measurable ERR's that range from
22-44%. Others do not, however, and no overall ERR has been calculated for
the rehabilitation component.
70.     The major potential risk faced by the project initially concerns the
possible delay in receipt of gas from the EBW pipeline. To compensate for
this possibility, conservative assumptions have been used by the Bank in the
preparation of the project by estimating a plant start-up date of January
1990-which is two years after the planned pipeline completion date to Aonla.
In addition provision has been made to fire the steam generation boilers with
liquid fuels to cover short term delays in pipeline commissioning-up to 4-6
months. Second, a significant drop in the long-term international price of
fertilizers, possibly as a result of a long-term decline in world-wide energy
prices would affect the economic attractiveness of the project as shown in
para 69 above, and the possibility of lower international fertilizer prices
cannot be ruled out in today's volatile energy market. Should international
fertilizer prices stay depressed, then on strictly economic gr3unds, the
Government would be better off importing fertilizer than investing in domes-
tic production capacity. Nevertheless, reliance, except possibly at the
margin, on imports in a volatile mar.tet is not an appropriate development
objective for India with its abundant gas resources and growing fertilizer
demand.



-22-
PART V - RECOMMEADATION
71.     I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Ezecutive Directors approve
the proposed loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1986



ANNEX 1
I ha L.g                                        Pag  1 of 6
mu:                      cmu ucaur DlSuu13  ^
aguaLk.            136311           SLII 130016             li l KN * O
AM  taM-    u. U)
TOTAL                             2267.6     3361.6      2367.6                 .
AOUCUEeR*1                        1763.5     1760.5      1811.4
N I  CA  C                              ..         .-        240.0              276.3                   1011.1
CUILo SO 0or oL QOIvzLII)           79.0      :13*0       151.0             2 5.?                     566..
iuwr&mu m rna IUcewu
POPUIATIKO, nMD-TUl CT03M) 4549.0   567569.0   733248,0
133*  IWULATIOU  3 OF IOTA?.)       11.0       19.6        24.4              22.2                      25.9)
OPUSATIxow It1* 200  CuLL)                              694.4
As*   MWUATK  (EILL)                                   1700.0
OUUATIOV 3 N1                                             1.6                 .
MR 30. IN.                       122.2      166.6       223.0              173.8                    366.9
331 3  IN. AGRI. LAND            244.6      307.5       395.6              353.3                   1591.2
P0WMAINA1 AMg STUICIS (1)
0-14 1us                         A0.L       42.7        39.5               36.3                    32.2
1544 Yu                          54.4        56.1        36.5              59.                       57.7
*5 no ADftN                        1.6        3.0         3.9                4.3                      3.5
POPMATZ  oROT  RhTn (2)
TOTAL                              1.l$       2.3         2.2                2.0                      2.3
03211                              2.5        3.3         3.                4.1                       4.1
5i3i- 113T 11 Tt CMI 1TO05)         47.7       61.5         3.9               27.5                     30.1
0  3211 3U*A  tM  TH06)            23.9       17.9        12.5               10.2                      9.4
6 S3031 IIOTIOV KM                   2.9        2.6         2.3                1.7                      1.9
ACCIWIM. am"  (10)                64.0     3762.0      6626.0 j 
am   (Z w lN*UI   VOW)             ..        1.7         32.0              49.4                      56.
110011 D.
no0 no lo ar
IN01 O00 IPOD301. PCX1 C*FlZT
(1969-71.100)                       96.0      102.0       113.0              116.6                    124.4
PO3 CAPITA SOWLT Or
cALOR61S Cs or RopUy  36)         96.0       91.0        92.0              106.3                    115.7
33133  (1RAS MR D)                56.0       50.0        50.0              60.1.                     60.3
Q1 VNICH uNDUL Mi.   FOUl        17.0       15.0        13.0 /i            14.4                     14.1
c1l, (AM  1-4) DUJ Las              26.3       19.7        11.0               7.3                       7.2
LIUE ZKC3. AT  Stan t(To )          42.2       47.3        56.9              60.5                      60.6
13*3r "W?. BASS (MI TO3            165.0      139.0        93.0              69.2                      64
aCCESS 20 LUC WATSR (VW)
TOTAL                               .         17.0        41.0A             44.2                     44.0
0331                               ..    o 60.0          7n I              77.2                      57.6
301*1.                             .,         6.0        31.0 cL            34.6                     37.1
A0SS10 TO uCISTA 31S3951
Cl OF POPMIATIOU
TaTAL                             ..         18.0         6.0                                         ml 7.  50.1
URBN                                         650         27.0              2;.1                      52.9
NM"*1.                                        1.0         1.0 c             3.5                      44.7
PUUIIWSM   3      ICCt          41*0.0     689.0       2690.0 q          3216.0                    7751.
10. MI  ISn    "MN               10910.0 /   7420.0       40.0              490.7                    2464.6
pop. M 0     *. 33D
TOTAL                           2160.0     1650.0      1290.0 1j          1039.2                   1112.1
1m                                 .3 ..                 70.0             299.1                     651.4
R0UR                               ,          . .     1041C.0           G602.2                     2516.9
A3.DIIU13 P 01TL SCD  .                        ..          ..               52.3                      41.1
-I-
*V nIAG Z  012; a 0r 5o 3
TOW.                               5.2         5.6
01A3                              35.2        5.6
laL                                5.2        3.6
AWEUW  30. ot PZS/UOGt
TOOAL                              2.6        2.6
2.6        2.          .
ROM3*1.                           2.6         2.6
S3x36*Z   OrUUI DC S1W   RUIZT.
TOTAL                              ..         ..
omum..                                        ..
RURAL.                             ..         ..



ANNE 1
T A D L C 34                                  Page  2 of  6
IDIA                  -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SET
INDIA                               REEREC  aGRUPS CWIIGCITED AVERAGES) /a
nOST                     (MST nang ETIIWTCS) lb
IT ICEIIT         LOW i 3              NIDDLE 1ICOIIC
L9601      mob- ZESTINAT_           ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA A PACIFIC
ADJUSTSD  IUURNT RATSIOS
PRIMARI:  TOTAL                  61.0        73.0       79.0 /c            92.6                    100.7
MALE                   80.0       90.0        93.00            105.5                     104.4
FUWE                   40.0       56.0        64.0 L            79.3                     97.2
SECONDAXf TOTAL                  20.0        26.0       30.0 Ac            31.3                     47.8
MALE                   30.0       36.0        39.0 k            40.6                      50.6
FINALE                 10.0       15.0        20.0 7T           21.9                     44.8
VOCATIONAL CI Of s53ONDRY)          2.8         1.0        ..                 3.2                     18.4
FUPIL-TEACNIL RATIO
PRIMARY                          46.0        41.0       54.0 lc            38.0                     30.4
SECONDARY                         16.0       21.0        ..                17.4                     22.2
amnwX
PASSENGC CARS/THOUSAN POP           0.6         1.1        1.4 /h             0.3                     10.1
RADIO RNCEIVIRS/TUOUSAND POP        4.9        21.5       55.8              129.8                    172.9
TV RBCEIVERS/THOUSAND POM            0.0        0.0        2.9               19.8                     58.5
NEWSPAPlE ("DAILY CGEAL
INTERZST") CIIUDLATION
PEK uWmai  POPULTIO                10.6       16.2       19.4 th            25.7                     65.3
CINEMA ANllIAL AITENDANCE/CAPITA    3.2         6.2        6.6                6.0                      3.4
LABOR POrn
TOTAL  LABOR FORCE (CToUS)      185951.0   219194.0   284251.0
FEMALE (IRWINT)                  30.7        32.5       31.4               33.2                     33.6
AGRUCILTURE (PERUENT)            74.0        74.0       71.0 /c            69.6                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.0       11.0        13.2 7;9          15.8                     17.9
PAATICIPATION RATE (PEZRCET)
TOTAL                            42.8        40.0       38.8               41.9                     38.9
KALZ                              57.0       52.4       51.7               53.6                     50.6
FEKALZ                           27.3        26.9       25.3               29.1                     26.8
3COO1C DERNDEEC RATIO              1.1        1.1        1.1                1.0                      1.1
*351 DI STTYOU
PUCENT OF PRIVATE I3CM
RECEIVED U
HIGHEST    OF HOUSEIIOLDS         26.7       26.3 /       .
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS        51.7        48.9 7       ..                ..                      48.0
LOWEST 20z OF rOUSEIOLDS          4.1         6.7 7      ..                 ..                       6.4
LOUISr 40X OF 1O15RALDS           13.6       17.27        ..                ..                      15.5
P        =ua TM=
ESTDUIMA ABSOUTC POVERTY INCOME
LEVL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..        132.0 /h          133.9
RURAL                             ..          ..        114.o 7i          111.6                    151.9
ESTIKAMAD RELATV  POWET 1ICO5
LEVEL CUSS PR CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..          ..                ..                     177.9
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..               61.7                    164.7
ZSTIMAES POP. BELO  ABSOLUT
POWRT. INCO1  Lo. (1)
URBAN                             ..          ..        40.3 /h            43.8                     23.5
RURAL                             ..          ..        50.? 7;            51.7                     37.8
NOr AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
Ia  The groulp averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithetic mean. Covernge of countries
smog the idicators depend on availablilty of data and Is not utfoo.
lb  Unless otherwis noted, "Data for 1960" refer to ay year betwee  1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" bete
1969 and 1971; end data for 'Most Recent EstIate ' between 1981 and 1983.
/e 1980; /d 1977; /a 1978; /f 1962; aJg 1976; /h 1979; /1 1964-65.
JUNE, 19i5



ANNEX 1
DEFINITIOS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                rg        o   6
Notes: Altbougb the data are drawn from souruca geeralljudgd the mst autboritative and reliable. It huld abo be noted that they may not be iternatioially
compamble bemuse o the lck of sanardized dellitionra nd coocpta used by dilfnt coutrie in colcting the dat The data ar. nonetdles. uaeul to
describe order of magnitude. Indicate trend. and characteri certin maor dilernes been countries
The remkren groups are (I) the same country group of the subject country aid (2) a country group with somewhat higher average income  n anthe county
group of the abjet country (except for 'High Income 0 Expote" group where 'Middle Income North Afric and Middle East" r . .cho  bemuse of stronger
cio-cultural affinitie). In the reference group data the avera are population weighied arithmetic men for each indicater and shown only when rmajrity
ofthe counrie in a roup ba data for that indicator Sce the coveag ofcountrine mmong the indicaton depends on the availbilityofdata aw is not uniform.
coution must be ecd in rating averg of one indicator to nother Thes averag are only ueflul in comparing the value done indicator at a time among
the country and mreence groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Crude ath RAte (per J_thodI-Number orf ve births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thouand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Cr Deat RAte (per tJ-mN)-Number of deaths in the year
Agrkabaal-Estinate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pernanendy for crops, pasturcs. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gos Repedws Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her nomual reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertiity rates; usually five-year averages ending
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World   Faxdfy  lafiAccuprors, AsI (thossandfl-Annual num-
Rank Atlas (I 981483 basis); 1983 data.                        berofacceptorsofbirth-controldevices underauspicesof national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Am*  Plauru-Uws (prc  of mrvd uwmem)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are pacticing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalenrt per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbads are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are genrly women aged 15-49, although for
somn countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Total P.pulauior. Mid-IYear (thousra -As of July 1 ;1960.1970,  FOOD AND NTIUTION
and 1983 data.
UrIh  Population (peren of saast)-Ratio of urban to totl       IndexefFo.dPfraedt   hrCapta (1969-71 - IO-Index ofper
population; different definition of urban s*rcas may affet ccapita annual production of all food commodities. Production
ppility of data among counties; 1960o 1970u and 1983 data      excludes animal feed and seed for agriculturc. Food comnodities
ability of dat-aon u 96.170ad9 t  inDdude pdmary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instcad of sugar)
PopuAtion fqjectins                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popslation in year 2O0-Tlhe projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables. fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock. and
total population by agc and scx, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            Per Capita Spply ofCCaories (partnt efrequ_rnst)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a lone period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement levd  tion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1). IP such a population, the birth rate is  exdude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the dtath rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in tie year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lcvd.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population MonEntuan-Is the tendency for population growth to  Per Capita Supply of Reav  (grisper p  da-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has be n  per capita net supply of Food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for aUl countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year x. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protcin. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                      75 grans of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pop blaion Density                                             average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqXkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Cpit hoteti. Sapply fia  Amaland PWse--Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultunil  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
PApuaion Age Strctre (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-    CNN (ages 1-4) Deth Rate (per thousand)-N umber of deaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Populaion Growth Rae (percean-)otat-Annual growth rates of     from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEAEXH
Populaton Growth Rate (perceit)-urhau-Annual growth rates      Life Expectancy at  Ath (yews) -Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNE 1
Pa  4 of 6
at the tme of ofim birth we to day the a    throuot Its Ur.  l ir pucher AWo - phpwj,. m.d  ceeor-Toal atudat   -
1960,1970 and 1913 data.                                      rod in pimary ad  eondry lves divided by numbes of
how Marap Ra (per dahed)-Number of Inanta who die    teachers in th  orepondin lve.
before rachin one yer of agp per thound live birh in a given
yew, 1960, 1970 and 1983 dat                                  CONSU ON
Aeon to SO  ohm (Poag  Ivp5l Eea)              ma   d J _               Crn (er i)Ps                           conr ars  -m
r4-Number of people (totaL uran, and rurl) with resble        pr  motor c   mtling leu        et persons;      esambul-
wcs to safe water supply (Inded  teed surfdce wate  'or        ass  earses and military vidle.
utittd but   onuminated water ewh a tat fiom protected        re  R.*. (pw   eeesppomtans-All typ  or rcver
borehols spring ad snity wal) u parcentage of their           for radio broadcat to enea pubic per thousd of popudlon;
tive populations In an uba  u  a public fountain or s         extdudes un-icesed reeies in countries nd In yean wbn
loca  not more dta 200 mers from a hom may be conideed        reginration of radio ae wa in etect; da for cent o yes may
beng withi reaonble acom of that houe. In rual area          not be cos1e Wm most count bobed lEdo
reao able  o wd Imply that the hoswife or member of thebe
houihold do not have to ped a diproportonate part of the day   TVRJde  (e         mreedvn for broadcast
in fetc    the fab  w-' nel                to  nerl public per thousand populao; ecluds uncend TV
Aca  k Etc va Dhpel (pomm        j 1                  ,      receve in counies and in yea  whenrgistrton of TV ss wa
mnd mWl-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  in 6IfOL
excrem diposl a pernt     of the  respecve pouain                       CIad53 (Pe dhdpwpb            111.s-Shows the aver6
Excret dis;l may include the collction and disposaL with or   ae cirulation of -day geal intemrt nwspper" dded as a
vnitout treatment, of human excta and wast-water by watern-   podical publicaion devoted primarily to rwcrd    general news
borne systems or the use of pit privie and iinilr isa ntim.   Iti couderd to be 'daly" if it appear at at four ti    a wne
Popuhidan per PiaPlod -opulahion divided by number of pc-      aie A _ina AtteBdWcr pU CkliIe jlr YaY-Baed on the
tiing physa  qualified from a medicaRlshl at university leel.  number of tickets sold during the yp, including admissions to
Pomldm per NMwsg Pam-fpulation ivided by number of            dnve-in c;enas and mobie unitL
practing mnuk and female gaduate nurses, asditant nures,
practicl nurses and nursng auxilm is.                         LOR FORCE
Popludea per Hqsza Rd-metalmica, and rwuI-ftpllation           Tta Lab' Fac (rl.wu.duD-Econoinically active peson, in-
(totaL urbn, and rural) divided by their rcive  number of     cluding armed forcos and unemployed but exduding houswiv,
hospital beds avilable in puiic mnd private, geaands          students, etc., covering population of all ags. Definitions in
hospitals and  hblittion centrs. Hospital ar  t     r         various countries are not compaable; 1960, 1970 and 193 data.
pCrmanently sted by at  st one physiin. Establishments prov-  A e_ch (powe{)-Female labor force u percentage of total lbor
iding principally cusodial cue are not induded. Rural bospita  fol,
hosvr indudc bealth and inedical centers not pemanendy staffed  Apgcshwv (peatJ-Labor force in farming forestry, hunti
by a physician (but by a medical aistant, nun  midwife. etc.)  and fishing a pentag of total labor force; 1960 1970 and 1980
which offer in-pate  accommodation and provide a limted rang  data.
of medical facilities.                                        lusry (perceaQ-Labor force in mining, constuction, manu-
AvdzdoBa  pf HfespIa 54-Total number of admissons to or       facturing and eectricity, water and gs as percentage of total labor
discharges from bospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
G-                                         r-Jtion
HOUSING                                                      or activity rtes are computed - total male, and female labor force
Avrage  ofs HoeWhM (jsu p  bafdD-ma. wham                     as percentages of totaL male and female popuation of al as
.mlraW-A household consists of a group ofidividuals who shame    repe_cly, 1960,1970. and 1983 date. These ae bead on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  ptcipation rates reflecting age-sex srctof the populaio  and
may not be induded in the houehold for statistical pupos      long time trend. A few eimates are from naton el soe
Aeag Nmuugr of Promser S_Im-to, wrh, ad ral-                  Ecmeic Depduyn Reto-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the vorking age population (those aed 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellinp exlude
non-permanent stuur  and unoccupied par.                      INCOME DISTREUTION
Pereag  of DwfLap wt BEdricly-ain  whe, ii rial-              Percntae of Tta  Dlp khlle  (hod In cwh mud hed)-
Conventional dwelings with elctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to pecntie groups of households ranuked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rmral dwelligs respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Atsed EuwvAme Rados                                           The following estimates are very approximate mease of poverty
Pvaary sdool - ot -. ma k    fw-Gs total mal and              levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
fiende enrollment of all ages at the primary leve as percentages of  Eadisated Absout Paveriy meane Leve (USSper ofpka)--whu
rspective primary school-ge populations. While many countrie    d ries-Absolute poverty income level is that income leel
consider prinary school age to be 6-11 years, others do noL The  below which a minimal nutridona0y adequate diet plus essntil
differences in country pracces in the ages and duration of school  non-food requiremets is not affordable.
are relected in the ratios givenL For some countrie with universal  Es ud Relatve Po"t lam    Leve (USS per capta)-er
educaton. gross enrollment may exceed 100 prcent since some   ad ral-Rural relative poverty income lvd is one-third of
pupils abe below or above the country's standard primary-school  avae per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural kevel with adjustment for higher cost of
Secody  school - totafl male ad female-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four yeas of approved pri-  EsWmaed PJpade. Peew Absohite Porty  cme Lee (pm'-
rMary  nstruction prvides generaL vocationaL or tacher training  cid riv- Percent of population (urban and rural
insructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; corrspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Voational Enrolueni (prcet of seco=ay)-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include tchical, industrial, or otber programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Prections Department
xtiependenly or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



AMUI 1.
Page 5 of 6
GMW PMN CAPITA IN Iona UsasO Al
mOSS   _371c PUNShIT 1is   eu/B lb                                 AUIAL RAU OF G_OM  ( CONSTANT PCEs) e
Uss *ln     s          nn_ Ss          es"-64i        an  _K  e  w e011-74176  7516JT G  97E0  1 "-1
GOP at _arket Prics            170.34  IN.              3.7         3.5           3.7          2.0           4.1          5.2
Gres  Smatle Investmfnt          1.10   23.4
or.:m NatI.ioa ei SawI          250:3   20.0
Current Acecut  eltlme           5."    3.4
OUTPUT. LAO  P060  AIS PRICTIVITY I1 1001
Value A      (e      -aAer                        PeWt V. or  er
*1^UMAgau.S of.                               e  Satimna
Ariculto             2A    25.0        172.?      0.6       304          S1
Inteirp             24.5    23.0       31.1      12.0     1.002         103
Sery 1600           j       J3J        J3       J3J        -L
Total/Average      146.2   100.0       244.6   nto.0        H0          too
OOVENNT rFINANCE
-erl  I_rfmnt el                      Control 3eromnt
mlEIfl.I.        S of G00W         Pe age-            S or GOP
Current HReeipts                436.23       20.46      10."       240.01         11.20      10.42
Curr nt Eapenituree             478.28       22.34      20.05      274.17         12.09      11.30
Curnt Surplusi0eficit            -40.03      -1."       -0.40      -332.          -l.0S      -0.30
Capital Eemendturoe f/           184.24       .6.4       1.12      14.1            6.*        6.06
Esternel Assistance (tnt)         115.07      0.74       0.e7            -            -          -
-uV  CbIDIT AND PRICES           1070171 ]JL7   973/93  itIaiiI  1jj13 jf2683  1083/14  1084105  Feb.  5  Fob, a
*   J-l in *u *at    ^ *gt *nd  p1 -Oli
Money snf  Quasi-MOneY               100.0   224.1    472.2    557.7    627.5    729.7    *0.09  1.023.7  1.003.4  t.104.0
_ la   Credit to Government (net)     14.6    10.3    200.1    251.2    206.3   352.3   407.5    503.S    400.5   093.2
Munk Credit to Commrcil Sector        64.6   354.2   310.1    30.4    434.6    517.1    *12.7    715.0    633.0   7e9.1
304115 1031116f
1070171 11057 LZS          9j 012In1f2  1282/i3  I9G3394   964185  Apr. -Feb  Amr.-PFb
CPreente6  of Indke-^   _re
_Oney and Ouas I -Mony an a 7
:f GOP MP                           27.3    30.3    43.0    4;.6         42.S    44.2      44.4     46.0       -        -
bhoIee1a Price Inme-
710707 -100l                       100.0   173.0    217.6    2e7.3    261.3   288.7    316.0    336.4   336.0    357.5
A.nual Percentage Cnanges in.
e.-leaale Price Ino.                   7.7    -1.1      17.1      19.2      9.4      2.6      9.5       7.1      7.1      *.0
Dana Crodit to Governent (net)        11.0    22.7      25.6     26.e      19.1    150.      15.3      23.5     20.3 gl  17.0 S/
afik Credat te Commrcial Sector       19.4    22.7      21.5      16.2     19.6     19.0     16.1    11.7       12.3 RI  10.4 bF
It rne per capita GNP eat1_ete Is at market prices. using World Bank Alla  ethodolooy. bass periao  PnB6-83.
A:: eth-r conv*rsIona to aotlars In this table are at the average A*Ch-nnO rate prevling ouring thn  perioa covere.
bi a uc  Et aetna. Centrol Statistical Organization.
ci Coeputed trOm trend line of GCP at factor cost ceries. Including one observation before first year and one
onservation for act year of istad period.
a, world laso eatleates of not dtaburm_nt of conceasional aId *en I9R.
id, rranafera bet_-n Centre and States have teDn netted out.
It All loans and dv-ances to tnird pertl*i- have been netted out.
II Pareentaga change froe end-arch 10W4 to end-February 19E5.
ni PereOntage chonge from and-varch 19WS to end-February 130.
Il Total Labor Force and percentage Dreakdoen froe 1031 Cenus.  Excludas data for Anson.



)-jrrof 6
EALANCE w PASTS                 JilUfi  ^tUlLE   JUliE Al ZULU .1'                ~         WIP       AMIs 1SS IS D ES - 1igmeM S.,
MIS Million)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UMEllion  a-.
I&perum of Gomds 21              ass         e4?       ml       I9ll             iogrlng Ges"                   1146      13.6
Imports of  ees" at              1435        43        1 133    14410           T                                 47         * .7
Trade Elanwo                     -gm        4su1      -446?    .4341            GOO_ 1S6                                     13.1
UPS (not                           33        9OU        lOl1                    Clething                          7TV         6.6
LesSor ad Basther Prodhucte       377       *6.
esoerct  alncs                   -64        -463      -3436     -434            Jute Snmfacture                    233        3.6
,- __,___________                                                  ,             rnm Ore-                                     4.6
Coltta Teatiles36                             3.6
Inseremt  Intew  (not) pi        -257        -714      -616      -546           lum                                74         0.3
Not tronafor, J1                  23004      303       33632      3n6           Onoaft                            341        42.4
lolenco on Curront Account       -2116      -2778     -1903     -rSSe
--------------------------                                  re~~~Ttal                        3337       100.0
65         62    _ 2____2
Direct Inwoat_nt
OttC ido  LOaw   S GOrnts (not)    170        6661      153"      31x3                         MARCH 3n- 1965
Gruts Otmhuremonte                2321       2162      2133       330
Aourtization                       113        *17       U19        H0                                                    uss JJllJen
Pi vote *orroming (not)            367        a"        31m       404           Outotondin  an  D i rod                    36.33
Undiflureed                                10.6?
nen-Ieeidont Do1eo1te              434        723       316       13            Outmtndin  Inctldino Undilbursod r         36.10
Tr aeaStlen .Itt IMP (not)       160        1271         Oi      -263
AI I oter I ton I_              -1243         622      -741      -331
Increse in Roserves (-1          -0          -11       -n32      -l60           ---------------------------
Groos aowenuem (d voar) aD        409"       1147      sl11      1070
bot Remorse (am  year 39          2060       1667      2176      2214           1IO/D LOWIC  _"CH 31. 1C06 t    USS will$
Fuel And RolotOd e11trllm                                                                                             -If      -[-- 
Outotonio end Dimburod                  20    350   _
Imports (petrolosa) 91           4717        243       2212      2346          Undiagrmed                               4700  2363
ot enichs Crude                20O         2240      1621      24"            outatandig  nd Undimburmed              7243  13562
Pred.ectS           1122        1260      1032      lo0w
RATE or ECK0ANGE
June IOn to old-Decenbr  197         .  USSI .00 * 117.1W
RolOGD * U560.13=22
M- o-D om-c_r 1671 to  nes-Juno 1972  s USS .00 - Ro7.2737
tRai00  USSO.1n7376
Liter end-Juno 1372                  s Floating Rate
Spot Rose ond-rch IS5                : US5m.00 - Re12.6430
Eol.00 - USW0.0811w
Spot Radto onesrrcn l9GO              USS .00 - Rm2.II3
-Aol 00 * US0.0109
'L Etimstaid.
i Figures gsven cover oll invoetment Incom  (not).  Majer par_ntC are Interst an foreign loam  end charges
paid to I_P, end  eaor receiptb are Interest arnd on foreign  seet.
I' Figures gin Include eorkers' roeittainco but -cClude official grant assimtanco uhCh Ie Included within
ott icol lonne and grants. *n  non-resident eogemito which ore oneen Separately.
!   aciludo not use of IMP Cresit.
ni  Aortization *no interest payments on fDrotgn loae  a  a porcantog  of total current receipte.
ral Includes *ean-ngo rate edjustments to the valuation of resrvas mid f Inancing of 10-la1vCo  in rupee trado.
it E.t udinlg gold.
9  nt of crude petroleum oil esporta.
rl Incluse   MF.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1986)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of CancelLations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank        IDA I/      Undisbursed 2/
57 Loans/                                            2,662.9         -              -
107 Credits fully disbursed                              -       6,563.7            -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                      -          29.2           0.02
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation          145.0         -             8.55
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development            -          30.0           4.26
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           12.0          5.12
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage             -         107.0           2.49
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research             -            8.0          3.83
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                 -         117.6          10.92
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                  -         200.0           8.46
806-IN    1978     Jamu-Kashmir Horticulture            -          14.0           7.98
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                       -         150.0           1.43
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II               -         196.0          84.94
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage       -          38.0           2.89
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research       -          27.0           8.93
1648-IN    1979     RAmagundam Thermal Power            50.0         -            36.14
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                    -         129.0           9.16
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -          20.0          11.56
981-rN    1980     Population II                        -          46.0          15.89
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                 -          32.0          11.63
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                -         175.0          62.19
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                            -          22.0          12.47
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                 -         300.0          69.02
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension        -          10.0           3.76
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport             -          56.0          13.20
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                -          54.0          19.50
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -           80.0          37.91
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                   97.6         -             1.93
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                -         225.0          39.09
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                 30.0          -           15.09
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -          35.0           7.61
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                    -          83.0          35.15
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II          -          42.0          15.82
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation               -         140.0          55.21
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII              -         301.2          39.92
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -          54.0          29.30
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer Project            -         399.1          53.40
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -          23.0           4.72
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadc- Agricultural Ext.        -          28.0          12.86
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -          37.0          22.60



ANNEM II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                         Bank        IDA 1/      Undisburued 2/
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -          125.0         47.60
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -         400.0         208.74
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         125.89
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -             0.13
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          17.67
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          12.12
2051-IN    1982     ICICI xIV                           150.0         -            11.30
2076-IN    1982     Raagundam Thermal Power II          300.0         -           238.30
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -             6.0           4.28
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0         -            59.13
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5         -           167.71
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -          60.0          19.92
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -          72.0          58.66
1286-IN    1983     JammuKashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0         21.06,
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh
Irrigation II                      -           31.0         15.22
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -         127.0          98.12
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5         -            89.73
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -          200.0        141.75
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0          -          197.04
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development       139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                 -         150.0          81.29
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II              -         101.0          74.78
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -         170.0         134.20
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III        -         147.0         126.39
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission          250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2         -            44.83
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Hater Utilization         -          32.0          22.29
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7         -            22.64
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1         -            22.69
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                  -         105.0          60.35
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -          31.0          33.30
1426-IN    1984     Population III                        -          70.0          63.61
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry             -          27.0          21.12
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0         -           235.41
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                      151.0         -           141.88
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum              242.5         -           227.94
2415-IN    1984     Madbya Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6         -           169.39
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply               -          36.5          39.58
SF-12-IN   1984     Tamil Nadu Hater Supply               -          36.5          40.18
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -           17.5          8.47
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation          -           17.5         18.90
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                -         125.0         126.67
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation             -         172.0         140.32
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric        157.4         -           154.92



ANE  II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                         Bank        IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
SP-20-IN   1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric          -         129.8         138.51
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification           280.7          -           280.00
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power.           300.8         -           295.24
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Power        135.4         -           131.70
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III        -         220.0         201.59
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry                -          31.8          31.95
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension I           -          39.1          43.94
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development              -         138.0         136.89
2497-IN    1985     Earmada (Cujarat) Dam and Power   200.0           -           200.00
1552-IN    1985     Nartmda (Gujarat) Dam and Power      -          100.0          97.78
1553-IN    1985     Narmada (Cujarat) Canal               -         150.0         161.29
1569-IN    1985     Second National Agricultural Ext.   -            49.0          55.77
1611-IN    1985     National Social Forestry             -          165.0         189.41
1613-IN    1985     3"tdira Sarovar Hydroelectric        -           13.2          14.11
2498-IN    1985      Pharia Coking Coal                 248.0         -           248.00
2505-IN    1985     Maharashtra Petrochemical           300.0         -           293.11
2534-IN    1985     Second National Highway             200.0         -           200.00
2544-IN    1985     Chandrapur Thermal Power            300.0         -           277.29
2555-IN    1985     Rihand Power Transmission           250.0         -           249.39
2582-IN    1985     Kerala Power                        176.0         -           176.00
1619-IN    1986     West Bengal Minor Irrigation          -          99.0         114.97
1621-IN    1986     Maharashtra Composite Irrigation    -           160.0         186.90
1622-IN    1986     Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation  -            41.0          48.60
1623-IN    1986     West Bengal Population               -           51.0          55.64
1631-IN    1986     National Agricultural Research II*  -            72.1          72.10
2629-IN    1986     Industrial Export Dev. Finance*    90.0           -            90.00
2630-IN    1986     ICICI-Indus. Exp. Dev. Finance*   160.0           -           160.0
Total                                   8,734.6    13,808.8
of which has been repaid              1,385.2        247.3
Total now outstanding                   7,349.4    13,561.5
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/       7,349.4    13,561.5
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         4,780.27    3,963.07
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for effective SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumlative disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at
the SDR/US dollar exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1986.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount (USS million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8         -       0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Closter Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                        6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.2      8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9         -       15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -      28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8         -      18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.8         -       15.8
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.1         -        8.1
1984-86         The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       15.2         -      15.2
1985             Bihar Sponge                          11.9        0.8      12.7
1985             Bajaj Auto Ltd.                       22.8         -      22.8
1985            Modi Cement                            12.7         -       12.7
1985             India Lease Development Ltd.           5.0        0.4       5.4
1986             Larsen and Toibro Ltd.                19.0         -       19.0
1986             India Equipment Leasing Ltd.           2.5        0.3       2.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         296.4      13.6    310.0
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales            178.3       7.9    186.2
Now Held                     118.1       5.7    123.8
Undisbursed                   65.1       1.5      66.6



ANNEX III
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Agriculture, IFFCO
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the project
December 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
June 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1986
Section II:     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) GOI guarantees to provide adequate supplies of gas
to the project by July 31, 1987 (para 60);
(b) IFFCO and GAIL would enter into an agreement on the
conditions of supply of gas to the project by June 30,
1987 (para 60).



ANNEX IV
INDIA
PROCUREMENT METRODS FOR THE PROJECT COMPONENTS a/
(US$ Million)
Total
ICB      LIB      LCB       Other    N.A.    Cost
- Imports Component            150.0      -         -         -        -     150.0
(150.0)                                       (150.0)
- Equipment & Materials        101.5    150.9b/   48.1        -        -     300.5
(92.5)   (13.51     -                  -    (106.0)
- License/Engineering and        -       33.1c/    8.7        -        -      41.8
Consulting Services                 (13.77                               (13.7)
- Project Management &           -         -        -        20.5      -      20.5
Insurance
- Land & Development &          17.2       -       56.6       -        -      73.8
Civil Works                (17.2)                                        (17.2)
- Erection & Comissioning        -        4.4d/   37.3        -        -      41.7
(3.57     -         -        -     (3.5)
- Township & Infrastructure      0.9       -       30.9       -        -      31.8
(0.9)      -       -          -       -      (0.9)
- Local Handling                12.8       -        4.3       -        -      17.1
(10.9)      -       -          -       -      (10.9)
- Customs & Excise Duties        -         -        -         -       38.4    38.4
and Taxes
Total Cost                282.4     188.4    185.9      20.5      38.4   715.6
(271.5)    (30.7)    -          -        -    (302.2)
a/ Figures in parenthesis indicate amounts to be financed by the Bank.
b/ Includes US$126.2 million eqivalent of financing from OECF and
US$10.2 million equivalent of other bilateral financing for goods to be
supplied from Japan, India and cetain other countries.
c/ Includes US$18.9 million equivalent of bilateral financing for works
by the foreign project consultants.
d/ Includes US$0.6 million equivalent of financing from OECF.



INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Initiatives in the Fertilizer Sector
1.        In connection with the Cooperative Fertilizer Industry Project,
GOI agrees to aim at achieving a series of performance targets and to take
a number of measures spelled out below.
Performance Targets
2.        Plant capacity utilization:  A gradual increase in the average
capacity utilization and production of existing nitrogen fertilizer plants
from their present levels, both in the aggregate, as well as for the
public sector plants alone, as shown in the following table:
Targets for Capacity Utilization and Production of
Existing Nitrogen Fertilizer Plants
Actual                 Targets
1984/85   85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90
Plant Capacity (Z)
All India                      74       75     76      78     80     82
Public Sector                  60       61     63      65     69     73
Fertilizer Production
(million nutrient tons)
All India                     3.8       3.8    3.9      4.0    4.1    4.2
Public Sector                 1.8       1.8    1.9      2.0    2.1    2.2
GOI will provide the Bank, by June 1986, with plant-by-plant capacity
utilization and production data for 1984/85.  Similar data will be
provided to the Bank annually through completion of the project by June
following the end of each fiscal year.
3.        Feedstock and Energy Consumption:  Reduction of the overall
average feedstock and energy consumption per unit of output, as follows
(in approximate million kcal per ton of ammonia):



-2-
Actual.     -  Targets
1984/85     87/8 8 89/9t
Natural Gas         10.0          9.5       9.0
Fuel Oil            16.0         15.0      14.0
Naphtha             12.0         11.0      10.5
Coal                18.0         18.0      15.0 a/
a/  Assuming completion of the coal-based plants rehabilitation.
GOI will provide the Bank, by June 1986, with plant-by-plant consumption
data for 1984/85. Similar data will be provided to the Bank annually
until the completion of the project by June following the end of each
fiscal year.
4.         Distribution Efficiency:  Steps are being taken by GOI to
further gradually reduce the average haulage distance of fertilizers from
presently about 900 km to at most 800 km by 1990 and a 10X real reduction
over the same time of the average fertilizer unit transportation and
related costs, as reflected in the Government's "equated freight' payments
to producers, which in 1984/85 amounted to an average of Rs 173 per ton of
urea. In addition, despatch delays and production stoppages at principal
plants resulting from or necessitated by lack of railroad haulage
capability, is expected to be eliminated by 1989.
5.        Ex-Factory Pricing:  The review of the retention price system
just completed has evaluated various options, recommending a series of
actions with a view to (a) improving efficiency in existing facilities;
(b) building new capacities for mueeting the growing demand for
fertilizers; and (c) providing adequate incentives through an appropriate
pricing mechanism in order to develop the sector to its full potential.
The Government of India intends to modify and rationalize the existing
retention price system to generate adequate signals to plant managements
to take appropriate investment and operating decisions that would save
energy and reauce costs. The LTFP stateitent recognizes the need to
contain subsidies within a certain level in terms of GDP, recognizing also
the necessity to ensure that the rate of growth on this account ir lower
than the rate of growth of GDP. Various steps have been recummended in
this regard by the Study. Based on the above considerations, GOI would
endeavour to keep the existing retention price constant in real terms, at
present levels, pending decisions on, and implementation of, the
recommendations of the Committee. The Indian delegation informed that the
major recommendations of the Committee are (a) for the existing plants:
the retention price for urea would be fixed based on grouping for direct
costs, relating to feed-stock and individual capital-related costs; and
(b) for new gas-based plants: a system of tariff-adjusted import parity
prices based on long range average prices of sample of countries. GOI
intends to review the recommendations by September 1986, and thereafter
implemeat an action plan with monitorable targets in regard to ex-factory
pricing. In this process, GOI proposes to take into consideration the
Bank's views on the evolution of an appropriate pricing system for
promoting efficiency and reducing the subsidy burden.



-3-
6.        Farmgate Prices:  GOI has recognized the budgetary implications
of maintaining farmgate fertilizer prices at present levels.  The ongoing
study on farmgate prices is expected to De completed by the end of 1986
and will address the major issues surrounding the overall fertilizer
subsidy. In this process, GOI proposes to take the Bank's views into
account.
Measures Currently Under Consideration or Being Taken
7.        In order, 'nter alia, to achieve the above targets, a number of
measures, as summarized below, will be or are being taken.
(i)  Production Efficiencies
8.        The following principal actions are envisaged to improve the
efficiency and capacity utilization of the public sector plants now
performing unsatisfactorily:
(a)  Technical and Energy Survevs and Subsecuent Rehabilitation
of the Barauni, Namrup and Durgapur Plants. Based on
ongoing reviews of their performance and identification of
defective equipment, the companies will carry out
modifications or replacements. Feasibility studies to this
effect are to be initiated by mid-1986. On completion of
this work, the Government will assess the investment
requirements. These studies will also evaluate the
economics of continuing overation of the plants after
carrying out any needed physical and financial
restructuring.
(b)   Energy Audits of Other FCI, RCF, FACT and MFL Plants.
In-house audits are under  ry at RCF and MFL and will be
completed by mid-1986. Siamlar studies will be initiated
shortly at FCI and FACT and are expected to be completed by
late 1986. Their conclusions will be discussed with the
Bank.
(c)  Rehabilitation of the Gorakhpur Plant.  NLecessary studies
are under way and the findings are expected to be available
with the Government by Trid-May 1986, at which time the
Government will discuss the findings wich the Bank and
reach decisions with regard co their implementation by
Septem6er 1986.
(d)  Rehabilitation of the Coal-Based Plants at Talcher and
Ramagundam. The Bank-financed feasibility study has been
completed. The Government will review the findings of the
study wiAth the Bank and reach decisions on actions to be
taken by mid-1986.
(e) Closing of the Existing Urea Plant at Namrup. The Namrup
fertilizer complex is being rehabilitated and expanded.



-4 -
Following this rehabilitation, the old Naurup I urea plant,
being replaced under the current Namrup III Project, is
planned to be closed by late 1987.
Closure of Old Udyogamandal Plant. With the expected
commissioning of the caprolactam plant at the same site by
mid-1988, the existfng gypsum-route ammonium sulfate plant
will cease to operate.
(f) Study of the Economic Viability of Selected FertilJzer
Plants. Following completion of the above-mentioned
studies and audits, the Government will initiate a review,
under terms of reference to be developed 'n cooperation
with the Bank, of plants selected in view of their high
production costs and/or retention prices to (i) determine
their economic production costs and values; (ii) review
further potential, if any, for decreasing their production,
operat'ng and financial costs; and (ii,) identify and
implement measures for the purpose.
(g) Perspective Sector Planning. As part of its perspective
planning for the fertilizer industry, the Government
constitutes a Working Group prior to each Five Year Plan to
review the status of the industry and to formulate the
investment plans for the five-year period. In view of the
importance of the industry, the Government now plans to
carry out a longer period sectoral perspective study
covering the period up to the year 2000 to be utilized by
the Government's Planning Commission in its overall
perspective planning work. This review 's to develop an
optimal scenario for the structure of the fertilizer
production including aspects of location, feedstock, size
and sequence of new plants, marketing, distribution and
consumption in India, proposed targets to be reached and
strategy of action needed to be adopted. The Study is
proposed to be started by mid-1986 and scheduled for
completion by December 1986. The Government proposes to
cons-der the Bank's suggestions with regard to this study
and discuss its findings with the Bank.
(ii)  Public Sector Management
10.       The procedures applied for the selection, appointment, tenure,
training, incentives and motivation of top managers in the public sector
in general are currently being reviewed by the Government to find ways to
ensure professional decision-making at the senior management levels, to
increase autonomy and accountability of the managers, and thus to improve
public sector companies' operational performance and efficiency. In this
context, the Government is currently reviewing the recommendations of the
1985 Sengupta Study which focuses on improving the Indian public sector
enterprises in general; it is expected that decisions will be reached in
1986.



II.       The Fertilizer Department of the Government is in the process of
developing a computerized management information system which is expected
to be operational by mid-1986. The Government intends to work with the
Bank in further ref'ning the system, taking into account international
experience to incorporate elements of periodic evaluation of company
performance, setting up a signalling system pointing to out-of-line
situations, establishing a control over follow-up actions, and also
providing appropriate linkages with top management selection, promotion
and incentives, In this context, the Government and the Bank have agreed
to the provision by the Bank of financing of technical assistance under
the Cooperative Fertilizer Industry Project in the form of consultants
with international experience on the subject.
12.       On behalf of the Government, the Fertilizer Association of India
has carried out and submitted to GOI a study of the manpower requirements
of the fert'lizer 4ndustry.  The Government intends to discuss witn the
Bank by June 1986 the findings of the study, including the training needs
in the public sector fertilizer companies.
13.       Regarding the Government's intentions as to ownership of
fertilizer plants, the delegation has pointed to che size of the
investment program and the needed growth rate, and also notes the
Government's policy 4n the last two decades of mobilizing financial and
management resources available in all the sectors. As evidence of this
policy, the Government pointed out that of the six large gas-based plants
now under study or construction, five are to be owned by the private and
cooperative sectors, the only one in the public sector being implemented
by National Fertilizers Ltd. which is a very successful and efficiently
managed company.
(ii.)  Marketing and Distribution
14.       Given the projected growth in fertilizer consumption and the
necessary consumer diversification, the Government has recognized the need
to review its marketing and distribution strategy. In line with the
studies referred to in paragraphs 6 and 8(g), the Ministry of Agriculture
intedds to review the projected growth in consumption and production up to
the year 2000 and develop an appropriate strategy of actions to be taken
to ensure the efficient marketing of the increasing volume of
fertilizers. This study will include a review of the changes and
strengthening needed in the distribution system, the appropriateness or
otherwise of continuing the present syscem of market allocations, the
usefulness of increased competition at the market place to achieve better
services for the farmers, the need for reviewing the distribution margin
to ensure farmers better access to supplies, and the need for increased
institutional support for promotion, crop insurance and credit supply.
15.       The Government has been aware of the need for measures to
optimize fertilizer transportation and distribution. Initial feasibility
studies focusing on the establishment of a number of nodal railroad points
in northwest India are being prepared. Furthermore, in view of transport
and storage constraints in other parts of India with high consumption



-6 -
intensity, the Government is considering to carry out an all-India
distribution project. A decision on this study will be reached by June
1986, with completion scheduled within 12 months.



INDIA
O 'o cc co co o1o  ~iVi(i5,       |  <COOPERATIVE  FERTILIZER
SliOilli  /    <;INDUSTRY  PROJECT
O                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fodili- .. aPl..:
SUOCIOE            000000 JS  /FERTILIZER COMPLEXES BASED ON                                                      a    Fropoped pro/sd
eeoc         or"'                                       SOUTH BASSEIN GAS                        Sbi io
i~~~~~~~~PKSA Ht"ustuAe /  iNii o.d HU 0>pi                                                                            i
I"       :             n                                       UDi eojo          . ,
t>      OTeOO.TUREV1 @   wPAKISTAN                  A   HMiA/ HA                                               id    dvl
E      Porsoliol oil on/or gIs reser.e. ..,                                                 I 5                       irtenrril bordo-/
1  P-ooroenolrno.s/odoeoi  oredeo.                                00 Oi<lo1A                 "
t Ecielinig tenrlnol, Uror                                                                             /01  -  5R
lb 211reInli., Ulor
UM.r  wrwr l                                         0Q      7
Ero.,.M pilorr/                                                                               f          -E
o   eRotlolrs                          5!>  .                 R/'iN AINA                              KIOETR  0          00     000mi    000 o000 3 
*    Under oon.lnucllon               /J        ;~      t C        A        I t o                   /        Mt1  '       
E.i ;I :: ae wur.]                            sqoc r0>                          2
Roixstirre                                                 t                 qn          Y-           _
= Eol ing, 30 orode oil          "   6                                                                   '.    N  E PAL
-  fEie1 /.26"nol brgIo                                                                        Pll o                          Lorpen R-' DeS
,, il_ R A   A    A Ni  v/9 ,    
-     Fii                                           A, Iri-onin,,      *s  ..I,
Ulot bo-rdo   -                            7ksrs                                L   NXOJ      8       rRNES                   K
PI                                                           QWAA T A    EALko.~0T~                                                        '
*    EA,              .n t3i                                                                  ' D  H;; Ix
-  FoIslor ltr-thls                                                                                   OlOdsnee  0       00      20      00       000;el   i15S   _ u
- -Shh Eo;ndar                                                                                                         P A L'AiA  ___    _ ,
o    Under oorrlroc0en                                                  0ri0r               /        015                 0            0
PAKISTAN f, X5thl, 2f/H
ot.                              ,'y rifle,       /y                  cr M A  Dr   HY            P   RAA         THS/A N
-   Soetn d          Gllbuo        j J~                                  ,rIaorh?05.W1   i,.                                           ,
,,, 0 ,AS HA                                        /                A                  6 ,0 O_,,,  <    _c.boX                       MrF! ~.
PAK IS5TA N                                                                                                6.o
"t     deo'6                                                                                  8/MAR
/' ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    /htr cv    /*~4          9/f  ,,               Oooc-_.                                             /S
l              ''/                        j9'S                PRADESH
GUS    .I%T                                          A                       ? YA  P R A  D,E   .H
A                 A               7 ?tr~,
.olre&~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~RIS
sEe INSET                              MAHA RASH/TRA                                          \%o
iN                                  3ombay..b                                               ANDHRA  lI  $s
I                                                   e i                                   PRA DES/I H             ) 7r                  i



