Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
, g. ? t> _ TA/
Report No. 6025-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
June 2, 1986
Industry Department
thThis documeria  hts a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World liank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                      WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
P.upees (Rs)  1.0      US$0.077       I Metric ton (t)    - 1,000 Kilograms (kg)
Rs 13.00           =   US1.0          1 Metric ton (t)    = 2,204.6 Pounds (lb)
Rs 1,000,000           US$76,923      1 Kilometer (km)    = 0.62 Miles
1 Rectare (ha)      - 2.47 Acres
1 Cubic meter (Ncm) =:35.32 Cubic feet (cf)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND-ACRONYMS USED
BTU                   British Thermal Unit
CIF                   Cost, Insuratnce and Freight
DANIDA                Danish International Development Agency
DAP                   Diammonium Phosphate
FAT                   Fertilizer Association of India
FICC                  Fertilizer Industry Coordination Committee
FOB                   Free on Board
GAIL                  Gas Authority of India Ltd.
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GOI, Goverument       Central Government of India
HBJ Pipeline          Hazira-Bijaipur-Jagdishpur Pipeline
IGFC                  Indo-Gulf Fertilisers and Chemicals Ltd.
IFFCO, the Companiy   Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd.
KV                    Kilovolts
KW, MW, MWH           Kilowatt, megawatt, megawatt-hour
(20 (Potash)          Potassium oxide content in fertilizers
MARD                  Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MP                    Madhya Pradesh State
N                     Nitrogen content in fertilizers
Ncm, Ncmd             Normal cubic meters, per day
NFL                   National Fertilisers Limited
NPK                   Nitrogerr-Phosphate-Potash
OECF                  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan
P205                  Phosphorus pentoxide content in fertilizers
Scf                   Standard cubic feet (at 60° F - 15.5°C, 1 Atm)
tph, tpd, tpy         Metric tons per hour, per day, per year
tyn                   Metric tons per year of nutrient
UP                    Uttar Pradesh State
Fiscal Year
Governuent of India: April 1 to March 31
IFFCO:          July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIL US ONLY
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COOPEtATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I*   INTRODUCTION AND SUMXURY .............I *                            1
II.   THE INDIAN FERTILIZER SECTOR ............                           3
A.  The Governmeat's Initiatives in the Fertilizer Sector .,..    3
B.  India's Nitrogen Fertilizer Iudustry .....................    5
C.  Fertilizer Pricing and Subsidy ..... ...                       7
D.  Trantsport and Distribution ...............................   12
E.  Bank Group Role In the Sector                                  12
III.  FERTILIZER DEMAND AND SUPPLY ..........13
A.  Fertilizer Use in Agriculture                                  13
B.  Historical Demand and Supply                                  15
C.  Projected Growth in Nitrogen Fertilizer Demand and Supply.   15
IV.   PROJECT SPONSOR               ....................                 17
A.  Organization antd Management                                   17
B.  Plants and Production Performance ........................   17
C.  Historical Financial Performance and Projections               18
D. Marketing                                                  o   18
V.    THE PROJECT        .                                              20
A.  Objectives and Bank Role                                      20
B.  Scope, Technology antd Locations ....21
C.  Supply of Gas and Other Utilities                             23
D.  Environmental Considerations                                  24
E.  Study and Imports Components .............................   25
VI.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTION .2...........                    26
VII.  CAPITAL COST. FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ...   27
As Aoula Component                         .                      28
B.  Rehabilitation Component .................................   31
C.  Study antd Imports compotnents .............................   33
D.  Procurement and Disbursemeut .............................    33
This report was prepared by H. Harald Burmeister, Hideo Aomatsu atid tichael
Pearson, of the Industry Department, based mainly on their .July/'-s--t 1984
appraisal mission.  Mesdames George, Greaves, Haidara, Johuson and Lawrence
provided word processing and secretarial assistance.
Ths dcument h mstrictW distibution nd may be u   by recipients onb in the perofomnce
of their offcial duties. Its contents way not otherwise be disclosed without World Bcank authoriution.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                     Page No.
VIII.* FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  3*8.....ee...e .......................
A* Financial Projections           ..............................  39
B. Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis  ......    41
C.  Financial Covenants and Reporting Requirements    .........    43
D.  Risks .*.e,q...eeee.ieege.e....e.eee..*.....e..e..e..*       43
IX.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS     .........               ..eVeqe......    44
A.  Economic Costs and Benefits *...........................    44
B. Economic Rates of Return   ........... .......-               44
C.  Other Benefits .g        ............................e.....  46
X.  AGREEMENTS ggg.gegggg....e.ggg....... ..g.......e..e.....g...     46
ANNEXES
2-1   Initiatives in the Fertilizer Sector
2-2   Sectoral Measures Taken by 001 to Improve Public Sector Fertilizer
Plants
2-3   Capacity and Production of Principal Nitrogen Fertilizer Plants
3-1   Selected Agriculture Statistics, 1952-1981
3-2   Historical Consumption, Production and Imports of Fertilizers,
1952-1985
3-3   Projected Growth of Nitrogen Fertilizer Demand and Production
4-1   IFFCO - Organization Chart
4-2 IFFCO - Summarized Financial Statements
4-3   IFFCO - Marketing Organization
5-1   Aowla - Project Location and Infrastructure
5-2   Description of Rehabilitation Schemes
5-3  Gas Supply to the Aonla Project
5-4   Environmental Standards
5-5   Pollution Control Measures
6-1   Project Management and Execution Arrangements
6-2   Aoula - Project Implementation Schedule
7-1   Aonla - Capital Cost Estimate
7-2  Rehabilitation - Capital Cost Estimate
7-3 estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan



- ili -
ANNEXES (Continued)
8-1   Assumptions Used in Financial Analysis
8-2   Urea ReZention Price Calculation
8-3   Aonla - Financial Projections
8-4   IFFCO - Financial Projections
8-5   Aonla - Cost and Benefit Streams for Financial Rate
of Return Calculations
9-1   Aonla - Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis
9-2   Aonla - Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Rate
of Return Calculatiou
9-3   Rehabilitation - Economic Rates of Return of Sub-Components
MAPS
Map A - India - Major fertilizer Plants (IBRD 19361)
tNap B - Fertilizer Complexes Based on South Bassein Gas (IBRD 19363)
Map C - Aonla Project Location and Proposed Layout (IBRD 19364)
DOCUDMNTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reference                              Subject
A.        India - Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution
B *       Bio-data of IPFCO Senior Management
C.        Guidelines for Evaluating the Management Information Systems of
Industrial Enterprises, and Evaluation of IFFCO
D.        Aonla Fertilizer Complex - Feasibility Report, IFFCO.
E.        Rehabilitation Component - Proposal for Revamp of IFFCO Units
F.        Land Acquisition and Site Studies
G.        Documentation Relating to Aonla Project Infrastructure
H.        Contract between IFFCO and Snamprogetti
I.        Aonla - Manpower Development Plan
J.        IPFCO's Local Competitive Bidding Procedures
K.        Economic Analysis of Rehabilitation Sub-Components



INDIA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.   INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
1.01      The Goverument of India (GOI, the Government) has requested, atnd
this report recommends, Bank loa0n  of US$150.2 million to GOI (the Gcvern-
ment Loan) and US$152.0 million to the Indian Farmers Fertilizer Coopera-
tive Ltd. (IFFCO) (the IFFCO Loan) for the Cooperative Fertilizer-Industry
Project (the Project), which cousists of (i) a new gas-based ammonia/urea
plant comlplex to be built at Aonla in the State of Uttar Pradesh (UP) (the
Aonla Component), (ii) measures to increase production efficiencies at
three existing cooperative fertilizer plants located at Phulpur (UP), Kalol
and Kandla (both in Gujarat State) (the Rehabilitation Component), (iii) a
study to develop ways to expand GOI's management information, evaluation
and control system for the public sector fertilizer industry (the Study),
and (iv) the importation of fertilizer materials (the Import Component).
1.02      The Bank's support for this Project as well as for two others in
the fertilizer sector which are presently under preparation, will be linked
to GOI's establishing and implementing a program of measures designed to
achieve several broad sectoral objectives. These are to make India's
fertilizer production and distribution more competitive, to reduce their
cost, and to reduce GOI's fertilizer subsidy.   A program of actions has
been agreed with government officials, including on a number of performance
targets by which progress towards reaching the above objectives over the
next few years can be measured.
1.03      The Aonult Component for which US$112 million of the Bank's
proposed IFFCO Loan is to be used, consists of a natural gas based plant to
produce 423,000 metric tons per year (tpy) of ammonia, essentially to be
used in the production of 690,000 tpy of urea, and includes related offsite
and utility facilities as well as needed infrastructure; it will use well-
proven technology which has been applied in other projects in India.
Execution of this component is now in its initial phases. The Rehabilita-
tion Component for which US$40 million of the IFFCO Loan is to be used, is
under preparation and will be ready to begin implementation later in 1986.
It is designed to increase production and energy efficiencies at three
existing plants in the cooperative sector which have suffered mainly due to
changes in feedstock specifications and infrastructure conditions as well
as aging of equipment, and to allow them to maintain or increase further
their already high levels of capacity utilization. This will be achieved
by adapting equipment to such changes and replacing obsolete or inadequate
facilities. These measures are technically viable. The Study, to be
funded from the Bank's proposed Government Loan with US$200,000, will be
designed to prepare an important institutionrbuilding measure; it will cor-
sist of a review by experienced international consultants of GOI's manage-
ment information system of the public sector fertilizer plants, with the
aim of introducing performance control, signaling and incentive features
similar to those successfully implemented in other countries. The Import
Component, also to be funded from the Government Loan with US$150.0
million, will assist GOI in meeting its import requirements of fertilizers
and fertilizer raw materials.



-2-
1.04      The Aonla and Rehabilitation Components of the Project will be
implemented and operated by IFFCO (the Compauy), an organization sponsored
by some 27,000 cooperative societies in 16 Indian states and territories.
IFFCO, which will be the Borrower of the IFFCO Loan, already is a major
producer of fertilizers; It owus and efficiently operates the three plants
at which investments to increase production efficiencies are proposed to be
financed under the Project, and is a shareholder in the Bank-financed
Hazira fertilizer complex (Credit 1125-IN). On the basis of its past
excellent performance in terms both of implementation capabilitv and opera-
tional efficiency, IFYCO is well suited for undertaking the Project, to
handle its productiou aspects ad to market its output. The viability of
the Project is demonstrated by its satisfactory projected returns: for the
Aonla Component, the economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 17.1%,
while those of the various rehabilitation measures range from 20% to ever
40%. The technical, financial and economic risks to which the Project is
subject, are acceptable.
1.05      The Bank loans will cover approximately 33% of the Project's
estimated financing requirements totalling US$917.9 million, and about 57%
of its foreign exchange cost. Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) and agencies of the Governments of Italy and Denmark will provide
bilateral credits totalling US$150.8 million. The remaining financing will
be provided by 001 in the form of long-term debt and equity (US$250.6
million), from IFFCO's internal cash generation (US$97.9 million), through
equity contributions from its constituent cooperatives (US$34.6 million),
and from other 1-cal borrowings (US$81.8 million).
1.06      The Aonla project for which no particular risks are foreseen, is
part of GOI's overall plan to make the most economic use of India's off-
shore natural gas resources, which prompted GOI to embark on a program
involving implementation of ten large-scale ammonia/urea plants. Of these,
the two-plant Hazira complex has recently been completed and two others,
one located in Madhya Pradesh State (MP) (Loan 2415-IN) and the other in
Rajasthan, are under construction and expected to be completed in 1988;
another two-plant complex started production in 1985 at Thal-Vaishet
(MaLarashtra State). The Aonla project is the seventh in this series.
Three additional plants, all to be located in UP aud to be implemented by
the private sector, are in the planning stage. Except for the Thal and
Hazira complexes, these plants will be fed natural gas through the new
1,700 km Hazira-Bijaipur-Jagdishpur (HBJ) pipeline whose construction is to
begin shortly.
1.07      In keeping with GOI's long-term objective of agricultural self-
sufficiency, implementation of the ten plants as well as increasing and
rationalizing the output of existing production facilities aims at increas-
ing the availability of end-use fertilizers to agriculture in an effort to
raise its consumption from levels which are still below the average of
similar countries. India has been suffering from low rates of fertilizer
application due, in part, to limited availability, long haulage and an
inadequately developed distribution system. With easier access to fertil-
izers, Tndian crop yields are likely to be improved with the adoption of



-3-
intensified farming practices.  Most of the output of the Aonla project
will be marketed in UP where fertilizer supply Is expected to continue to
fall short of demand.
1.08      India's production capacity of nitrogen fertilizer, the most
important of the three priucipal plant nutrients, currently totals about
5.2 million tons per year of nutrient (tyn). This Is expected to increase
with comp?etlon of the ten new plants and other measures being taken, to
about 9.4 million tyn by the early 1990s. The anticipated production from
this vast capacity, even when taking into account a substantial further
improvement in the utilization rates of existing plants, is estimated to
reach at most 8.1 million tyn (para 3.07), which still falls short of
projected demand by more than 2.0 milliou tyu.
11. THE INDIAN FERTILIZER SECTOR
2.01      Fertilizer plays an important role in India's agriculture which
accounts for about 40% of the country's GDP and provides employment to over
67% of the total work force. GOI's consecutive 5-year Plans have empha-
sized the objective of agricultural self-sufficiency, and efforts in this
direction have resulted in an increase of over 65% in agricultural produc-
tion during the last two decades. Increasing agricultural productivity
through improved farming practices and the use of modern inputs have been
of paramount importance, especially in light of the negligible scope for
expanding the land available for agriculture. The objective of further
expanding fertilizer use, which has grown at a compound annual rate of 1OZ
since the early 1970s, reaching 8.2 million tons of nutrient in 1984/85, is
an integral part of GOI's agricultural development strategy.
2.02      India is now the fourth largest fertilizer producer in the world
with a total production in 1984/85 of 5.2 million tyn, of which 3.9 million
tytn was in the form of nitrogen. In spite of this large production, the
country still has a supply gap which in 1984/85 corresponded to 37% of its
fertilizer requirements, or some 3.0 million tyn, at a value (FOB basis) in
terms of imported material of some US$750 million. The outflow of foreign
exchange on account of fertilizer imports over the years has had a consi-
derable negative impact on India's balance of payments. To increase domes-
tic production so as to substitute for imports, GOl is attaching high
priority to installing new production facilities while further increasing
the level of capacity utilization at existing plants.
A. The Government's Initiatives in the Feriilizer Sector
2.03      In the course of several missions, Bank staff have developed with
GOI officials a program, to be implemented by GOI, of Initiatives in the
Fertilizer Sector (Annex 2-1). This program sets specific time-bound per-
formance targets to be achieved by implementing a number of measures to be
taken in pursuit of Gol's objectives of reducing the cost of fertilizers
and the level of its fertilizer subsidy.



-4-
2.04      More specifically, these objectives are (i) to further improve
the economic efficiency anid international competitiveness of India's fer-
tilizer production and improving public sector industry management; (ii) to
improve the efficieucy of fertilizer transportation and distribution in
order to reduce the cost of fertilizer use and increase its availability;
and (iii) to reduce the fertilizer subsidy. The targets being aimed at
include: (a) atn increase in average capacity utilization for all plants and
particularly for those in the public sector; (b) reductions in unit feed-
stock consumption; (c) reductious in distribution distances and costs anid
eliminationi of shipping delays and production stoppages resulting from lack
of railroad hauling capacity; and (d) following a review currently under
way by GOI, a rationalization of the existing ox-factory retention price
system (para 2.16) with a view towards maintaining constant present average
ex-factory prices.
2.05      GOI has already taken a number of measures to address fertilizer
sector issues, many of them as a result of the Bank's dialogue with GOI in
connection with previous projects; these measures,listed in Annex 2-2, have
had a considerable impact on improving capacity utilization and production,
and reducing production costs at existing plants. The 10% fertilizer price
increase atnounced by GOI in January 1986 is estimated to reduce the subsi-
dy by about 20% from levels where it would have otherwise been. The addi-
tional actions to be implemented (Annex 2-1) with a view towards attaining
GOI's objectives in the sector, include:
(i) improvements in the efficiency and capacity utilization of
existing public sector plants, through technical and energy
surveys and audits, studies of the economic viability of
certain units and the subsequent rehabilitation or closure
of existing plants, as well as a long-range perspective
study to develop an optimal scenario for the structure of
fertilizer production up to the year 2000;
(ii) improvements in the management of public sector plants, by
(a) developing a computerized performance control and sig-
nalling system, to be assisted by consultants with interna-
tional experience 'v be funded under the Project (para
5.18); and (b) increasing the role of the private sector in
fertilizer production by placing responsibility for imple-
mentation and operation of the four remaining new gas-based
ammonia/urea plants with the private sector;
(iii) in order to stimulate internal competition and to induce
long-term competitiveness with the international fertilizer
industry, improvements in the retention price system with a
view to reducing the cost of locally produced fertilizer
(para 2.16); and
(iv) changes in the fertilizer distribution system so that it can
handle more efficiently and competitively the increasing
volume of fertilizers required; this includes establishment,
presently being prepared initially for North India, of a



-5-
network of nodal points to which fertilizer can be shipped
by rail in bulk and wnere it cau be received, stored, bagged
and tratns-shipped to conlsumers.
2.06      Progress In the implementation of these measures and towards
achievement of the targets mentioned earlier will be taken into account by
the Bank when considering possibly two additional projects in the sector:
a Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project, currently under preparation
for FY88, and a Fertilizer Distribution Project, planned for FY90.
B. India's Nitrogen Fertilizer Industry
2.07      India currently has a production capacity of 5.2 million tyn of
nitrogenous fertilizer and 1.7 million tyn of phosphatic fertilizer. With
completiou of the remainder of the ten new gas-based plants, total nitrogen
production capacity will increase to 9.4 million tyn and phosphatic fertil-
izer capacity, to 3.0 million tyn by the early 1990's. There is no potash
production in India due to the lack of exploitable raw materials.
2.08      India's vast existing capacity has been developed in the course
of some 30 years. There are now tweuty-seven nitrogeni fertilizer producers
in India, operating 42 plants. The majority of the plants produce nitro-
genous fer.ilizer in the form of urea for direct application or in combina-
tion with other nutrients as compound fertilizers. Annex 2-3 provides a
list of these plants, their respective ownership, products manufactured,
feedstock base, production capacity, actual production from 1981/82 through
1984/85, and rates of capacity utilization for the most recent year.
Twenty-two of the plants, representing about 56% of total nitrogen capaci-
ty, are owned wholly or partly by GOI, 16 plants (33% of capacity) by the
private sector, and the remaining four (18% of capacity) by the cooperative
sector. The location of the principal units is shown on Hap A.
2.09      Feedstock for Nitrogenous Fertilizers.  Prior to the exploitation
of India's natural gas reserves, fertilizer production capacity was devel-
oped on the basis of naphtha and fuel oil as feedstock, available from
domestic refineries in excess of demand, and abundantly available coal.
Presently, twelve major naphtha, six fuel oil and two coal-based plants are
in operation. With the large quantities of natural gas n,ow available par-
ticularly from the Bombay High/South Bassein off-shore oil and gas fields,
all the recently completed plants are gas-based; once the MP, Aonla and
remaining four projects are completed by the late 1980s or early-1990s,
natural gas-based plants will account for 47% of nitrogenous fertilizer
capacity, naphtha-based plants for 30%, fuel oil-based plants for 13%, and
coal and coke oven gas-based plants for the remainder of India's fertilizer
production capacity.
2.10      Plant Capacities and Technologies.   A wide range of plant capa-
cities and ammonia technologies have been used in India and the country has
now acquired substantial experience in building and operating plants with a
number of sizes and technologies. These range from those of the small
plants built in the 1950s and 1960s to the recently completed large units



-6-
of up to 1,350 tpd of ammonia, reflecting the technologies available at the
time of plant design. Production processes tnow in commercial use include
coal gasification, electrolysis of water, coke oven gas cracking, partial
oxidation of fuel oil, and steam reformitng of naph,ha and natural gas.
Following recent developments In more advanced countries, the latest
gas-based installations in India use steam reforming aud involve large
capacities allowing the use of more economical centrifugal compressors.
2.11      Capacity Utilization.  In addition to increasing capacity, GOI
has been placing considerable importance on taking measures necessary to
enhatnce the capacity utilization of existing plants. Theae have resulted
in significant improvements.   Recent levels are shown in Annex 2-3 for
each nitrogen fertilizer plant. In the past, production in many Indian
plauts suffered greatly, particularly because feedastocks were not always
available, and because of power supnly interruptions; this was due to
external factors, Including temporary operational difficulties of the rail-
ways and political disturbances in the oil producing and refining State of
Assam. However, rail movement of coal and fuel oil has significantly
improved. Power supply interruptions are progressively beinr overcome with
installation of captive generating facilities at several plants, and other
constraints are being removed through debottlenecking and efficiency
improvement measures, as a result, average capacity utilization has
increased from below 60% in 1980/81 to 74% in 1984/85. Plants in the
cooperative sector, all owned by IFFCO, have consistently operated at
levels well above the country averages and reached 107% in 1984/85.
2.12      The performance of the public sector plants has been lower than
that of the others. However, improvements achieved in this sector have
been remarkable, with the average capacity utilization rate increasing from
41% in 1980/81 to 60% in 1984/85. Six of the major public sector plants,
accounting for 27% of India's nitrogen capacity, have been producing at
rates less than 60%. GOI's program of sectoral initiatives (para 2.03-
2.06) includes efficiency and energy audits and technical studies which are
expected to lead to further corrective remedial measures in these plants.
Studies are in progress (with Bank funding under the MP Project) for the
rehabilitation of two coal-based plants, which are expected to form the
basis for the Rehabilitation Project under preparation. The rehabilitation
of several other public sector plants, once found to be economically
viable, could also be funded under the same project.
2.13      Management.  Apart from technical problems, many past inefficienr
cies in public sector plants were caused by lack of motivation of plant
managers to act energetically to resolve technical matters, improve capaci-
ty utilization and reduce production costs. Although significant improve-
ments have been made, the existing system of management selection, perfor-
mance evaluation and incentives is still lacking in some respects. Current
procedures are being reviewed by several GOI studies including those for
the selection, appointment, teuure, training, incentives and motivation of
top managers in the public sector in general; the studies' aim is to find
ways to ensure a higher level of professional decision-making by top
management, to increase autonomy and accountability of the matnagers, and as



-7-
a result, to Improve public sector companies' operational performance and
efficiency. In this context, the Department of Fertilizers under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (lARD), which is responsible
for administrating the public sector fertilizer plants, is in the process
of implementing a computerized management information system. Under the
Project, GOT intends to work with the Sauk in further refining that system
(pare 5.18).
2.14      New Capacit-.  The current expansion In domestic manufacturing
capacity of ntitrogen fertilizer will be based almost entirely on natural
gas, e.g. the recently cowmileted two-plant Thal and Hazira complexes, the
MP, Aonla and Indo-Gulf Fertilizers and Chemicals (IGFC) projects under
construction, aud three more being planned and expected to be completed
between 1989 aud 1991 (Ia 3). Regarding phosphates, due to limited
domestic phosphate reserves, supplies will have to be obtiined mostly
through import of finished fertilizers or from domestic productiou based on
imported phosphoric acid.
2.15      Given the large claims an public funds in the present resource-
constrained circumstances, GOI has sought substantial participatiou of
private firms and cooperatives in owning, building and operating the new
fertilizer plants. Apart from several expansion projects under way in the
private sector, proposals for new plants include the following:
India:  New Gas-based Ammonia/Urea Projects
Estimated
Location        S2onsor                     Sector       Cowmletion a/
1.  Aonla              IFPC0 - under              Cooperative       1988
(Bareilly, UP)     construction
2.  Jagdishpur         Indo-Gulf Fertilizers      Private           1988
(Sultanpur, UP)     and Chemicals (United
Arab Emirates) - under
construction
3.  Billopa            Zuari Agro-Chemicals       Private           1989
(Sawai Madhopur,    (Birla Group) -
Rajasthan)         approved
4.  Babrala            Tata  Group -              Private           1990
(Badaun, UP)        approved
5.  Shahjahanpur (UP)  To be decided              Private           1991
a/   Source:  Fertilizer Association of India (FAI).
C.  Fertilizer Pricilg and Subsidy
2.16      Retention Prices. Nitrogen fertilizer prices are statutorily set
by the Government - at both the ex-factory and faragate levels. While
prices at which fertilizers are sold to farmers are uniform throughout the
country, ex-factory "retention" prices, which are administered by GOI's



-8-
Fertilizer Industry Coordination Committee (FICC), are set on a plant-by-
plant basis, under a carefully designed and administered formula. Provided
given conditions are met, this "retention price formula" which was intro-
duced in 1977, generally enisures the financial viability of fertilizer
plants, giving them adequate incentives atd motivation to operate effi-
cieutly, and invest in new equipment and faciliLies. The formula which is
described in more detail in Chapter VIII, allows each unit, when operating
efficiently at 80% capacity utilization, an annual 12%-after-tax return on
equity; plants operating at lower rates earn a lower, and those operating
at higher rates earn a higher return. The system does not compensate pro-
ducers for productiou inefficietncies since it allows them to recover costs
anid earu a return only if their plants operate at acceptable input conisump-
tion norms; conversely, it peualizes producers for capital cost increases
suffered during construction due to delays beyond original planned comple-
tion dates or due to additional preoperating expenses, interest during cor-
struction and project management charges. The formula therefore ensures
that most inefficiencies which can occur, both during plant implementation
and operation, do not raise a plant's retention price. The formula fur-
thermore has been widely credited with encouraging private investors to
participate in the establishment of new production capacities (para 2.15).
The pricing arrangement, however, fails to generate the necessary element
of competition among matnufacturers, considered useful in improving the
overall performance of the sector.
2.17      There are therefore, potential areas for improving the formula.
GOI's ongoing review of the retention price system which is part of the
program of initiatives (para 2.03), is focusing on several measures aimed
at optimizing the system, to stimulate internal competition, to induce
long-term competitiveness with the international fertilizer industry, and
to help reduce the fertilizer subsidy.
2.18      Urea retention prices for the various plants vary widely and
currently range between Rs 1,669 to Rs 4,900 per ton, depending on techno-
logy and feedstock used, plant age, cost of feedstock (which also can vary
widely between plants) and other factors. The weighted average retention
price during 1984/85 was Rs 2,940/ton of urea (equivalent to US$238).
This, plus the cost of freight and distribution margia bring the total
average farm-gate cost of domestic urea to Rs 3,253 or US$263/ton; although
substantially higher than the price paid by farmers (Rs 2,150 or
US$174/ton up to Jatnuary 1986, and Rs 2,350 or US$181/ton thereafter), this
is essentially in line with the cost - at farm-gate - of Imported urea
(actual average in 1984/85: Rs 3,140 or US$254/ton). It is also important
to note that the current average urea retention 4rice (US$238/ton) is well
below the landed international prices prevailing in the past and the Bank's
projected equilibrium prices; it is also considerably below domestic farmer
prices in many developed countries, which have ranged up to above
US$300/ton, pointing to the fact that international fertilizer prices are
subject to wide fluctuations and often at dumping levels. Although a low
demand in recent years for internationally traded fertilizer has resulted
in depressed prices (in 1985 urea was traded FOB Europe as low as



-9-
US$100/ton),11 interuational prices are expected to increase with the
gradual reduction in available surpluses in world markets.  The World
Bank/UNIDO/FAO Fertilizer Working Group currenitly projects that a continua-
tion of growth in world nitrogen demand will absorb the present surplus and
lead to supply deficits in the late 1980s, unless some ten large-scale
ammonia plants are commissioned world-wide each year; it appears unlikely
that implementation of such a number of new projects will occur in the near
future.
2.19      As further developed in Chapter IX, the Bank's projections
estimate international equilibrium prices for urea of US$190/ton by 1990
when worldwide demand and supply would be in balance, and of US$206/tou by
1995 (all in 1985 terms).  When adding freight from ports to India's
principal agricultural regions, handling charges and losses, delivered
costs at farm level are estimated to amount to US$282/ton and US$298/ton,
respectively; the following table is a summary.
International Prices for Bagged Urea
(in 1985 US$/ton)
projected
1980/81 a/ 1984/85 a/ Esuilibrium
1990    1995
FOB Europe                         225          162      190     206
Sea-Freight and Insurance to India       40           40       40      40
Port Handling Charges and Losses         12           12       12      12
Landed                             277          214      242     258
Inland Transportation to UP              28           28       28      28
Handling and charges at retail level    12            12       12      12
Del)irered at Farm Level           317         254       282     298
._    _   _ 
a/   Based on actual international purchases by India.
2.20      As further detailed in Chapter VIII, the urea retention price for
Aonla is estimated at US$302/ton (in 1985 terms) when newly commissioned iu
1989; with decreasing interest and depreciation costs, it will decline to
I/   The depression in international fertilizer prices is partly due to the
fact that surplus producers such as the US, Mexico, the Arabian Gulf
countries and Eastern Europe currently do not price the energy input
(in the form of natural gas) at its economic opportunity value, dis-
torting output prices. The surplus supply is caused to a large extent
boamsiorJbuvers such as China, Brazil and India having temporarily cut
Dac on Sp r so



- 10 -
US$273 by 1995 and to US$202 by 2002; ever the Project's life, the weighted
average price is estimated at US$261. Although higher than the retentiou
prices of older plants, the average Aonla retentiou price remains at or
below the Bank's projected long-term landed international equilibrium price
delivered to up-country warehouses (US$270/ton to US$286/ton).
2.21      Farmer Prices, GOI sets fertilizer prices to farmers utniformly
throughout the country. The urea price is currently set at Rs 2,350/ton.
As mentioned, this is about 30% below the actual 1985 delivered cost of,
both, domestically produced and imported material. Despite substantial
fluctuations in these latter costs, GOI has maintained farmer prices (in
current Lterms) essentially unchanged since 1982 in keeping with its policy
of stimulating agricultural production through increasing fertilizer
ap,plication. The incentive to farmers to use fertilizer obviously depends
not only on the price of this input but also on the crop prices obtained:
as a result of increasing crop prices, since 1981 farmers' cost/benefit
ratios of fertilizer application have become more favourable, an important
factor in the high growth rates (averaging 14X p.a. since 1982) in
fertilizer consumption. The following table illustrates the historical
relationship with respect to urea between fertilizer prices, cost/benefit
ratios for the two principal fertilizer-using crops, and consumption
growth; the latter clearly is affected also by uon-price factors, including
rainfall:
India - Comparison of Fertilizer and Crop Prices
with Nitrozen Consumption Growth
Annual
Growth of
As of               Farmer        Cost/Benefit Ratios a/   Nitrogen
February          Price of Urea     Wheat       Raddy       Consumption
(Current Rs/ton)                               i1n % 
1974                   1,050         3.0          3.3             (1)
1975                  - 2,000        4.1          5.9             (3)
1976                   1,850         3.8          5.4             22
1977                   1,650          3.6         4.9             14
1978                   1,550          3.0         4.3             18
1979                   1,550         2.8          3.7             17
1980                   1,450         2.7          3.3              2
1981                   2,000         3.7          4.6              5
1982                   2,350          3.6         4.4             11
1983                   2,350         3.4          4.2              4
1984                   2,150         3.1          3.5             24
1985                   2,150          3.0         3.4             16
1986                   2,350         tna*         n.a.           n.a.
a/  Kgs of crop required to buy 1 kg of nitrogen.



- 11 -
2.22      Since the above cost/benefit ratios, relating the price of urea
to those of crops, are significantly below the response rates of crops to
fertilizer application (normally the application of I kg of nitrogen
results in a 10 kg increase iu crop), the use of fertilizer clearly is
profitable for Indian farmers at present price levels. Recent studies
conducted in India have concluded that in view of this profitability,
fertilizer application may uot be significantly affected if prices were
increased in reasonable steps, accompanied at the same time by other
measures in support of the agricultural sector (such as an increased timely
availability of credit to ensure that across-the-board price increases do
not affect disproportionately the majority (85%) of small farmers who
produce mostly for their own consumption and who have no or little
marketable surpluses through which input price increases could be
recovered). Howeve.t, it is felt by GOI officials that the present
profitability needs to be maintained if fertilizer use which throughout
India is still significantly below the economic optimum attained in other
countries (para 3.02), is to further increase. A recent estimate shows
that the economic value of annual crop production that could be lost from
lower fertilizer use, may be higher than the cost of the subsidies.
Accordingly, increases in farmer prices of fertilizer to bring them closer
to its economic cost, would need to be accompanied by increases in crop
procurement prices, lest fertilizer consumption and as a result, food
production and agriculture incomes, were to decrease. The long-term price
elasticity of fertilizer has so far not been conclusively assessed but
experience with earlier price increases in India and other countries have
indicated short term elasticities ranging from -0.4 to -1.0, meaning that
for example a ten percent increase in fertilizer prices could result in a
decrease in fertilizer consumption of between four and ten percent.
2.23      Subsidy.  With farmer fertilizef prices maintained constant (in
current terms) for several years In the face of increasing costs of
imported and locally produced fertilizer and the growing volume, GOI's
budgetary fertilizer subsidy has increased sharply; although essentially
designed as a subsidy to agriculture and consumer food supplies, subsidy
payments are made through fertilizer producers and importing agencies. I
In 1982/83, total fertilizer subsidies amounted to the equivalent of UST605
million (in current terms) (or US$95 per ton of nutrient consumed); they
reached US$1,440 million in 1984/85 (or US$175/nutrient ton) and are
expected to exceed US$1.5 billion in 1985/86. Had it not been for the
improvements already achieved in plant operating efficiency, rationaliza-
tion in distribution, and reduction of Inventories in the Government-held
fertilizer pool, the subsidy would have risen even faster.
2.24      GOI has become increasingly concerned about the growing subsidy
burden but except for a 10% Increase in farmer fertilizer prices announced
in January 1986, has not yet decided on measures to contain it. It is
2/   In the case of locally produced fertilizer, the subsidy covers the
difference between the farmer price (net of dealer's margin and
transportation costs) and the different plants' agreed retention
prices; regarding imports, the suLsidy similarly covers the difference
between the farmer price and their delivered costs (CIF plus cost of
transportation, handling and dealer's margin).



- 12 -
recogntized that possibly apart from minor reductions in retention prices, a
series of further farr-gate price incereases is the only measure to contain
or signtificantly reduce the subsidy. To study this issue in depth, GOI
appointed in 1985 a high level interministerial committee whose recommenda-
tioUs are expected in 1986. Given the importance of the food and fertiliz-
er subsidies which currently correspond to a total 1.4 percent of India's
CDP, GOI will take measures which will lower the subsidies over the period
of GOI's Seventh Plan (1985-90) to an average of 1.1% of GDP. The action
program developed by GOI with Bank assistance (para 2.03) is designed to
achieve a substantial reduction in the fertilizer subsidy, taking into
accoutnt the many issues discussed above that need to be considered in this
context.
D.o  Transport and Distribution
2.25      The provision of adequate facilities for the transportation antd
distributiou of fertilizer in India is of major importance. In 1984/85, an
estimated 21 million product tons had to be handled by railways, roads and
trucks, ports, and warehouses over an extensive network throughout the
country. Given the growing volume of this and many other commodities being
handled by India's transportation system, bottlenecks have developed caus-
ing greatly increasing costs to the economy. GOI has been aware of the
need for measures to optimize fertilizer transportation, and is undertaking
feasibility studies focusing on the estahlishment of a number of nodal
railroad points, initially in northwest India. These are nearing comple-
tion and will be presented to the Bank as the basis for Lhe Fertilizer
Distribution Project under preparation. Similar studies are being consi-
dered to address the fertilizer distribution system in other parts of India
with high consumption intensity, as well as policies, regulations and
uitfrastructural needs, and it is expected that the Batik would also be
involved in these. GOI has also recognized the need to review its fertil-
izer distribution strategy and has begun to develop action plans to support
the efficient distribution of the increasing fertilizer volume. These will
be based on ougoiug reviews of (i) the changes needed to strengthen the
distribution system, (ii) the appropriateness or otherwise of continuing
the present system of market allocationts to the various producers, (iii)
the usefulness of increased competition at the market place to achieve
better services for farmers, (iv) the need for reviewing the distribution
margin to ensure farmers better access to supplies, and (v) the need for
i'tcreased institutional support for promotion, crop insurance and credit
supply. A description of the Indian system of fertilizer marketing and
distribution is contained in a ProJect File - Ref. A.
E.   Bank Group Role in the Sector
2.26      The Bank Group has so far participated in the financing of twelve
fertilizer projects in India, making a total contribution of about US$1.1
billion. The most recent operation was a loan of US$203 million for the MP
Project, expected to be completed in 1988. Earlier Bank Group financing
had been through IDA for six public and one cooperative sector projects,



- 13 -
IBRD for a cooperative sector   oject, and IFC for four private sector pro-
jects.  IFC is furthermore considering to participate in one or two of the
private sector projects to be established along the RU pipeline.
2.27      The Bank's major objective in all the above projects has been to
support India's strategy for increasing domestic production of fertilizers
where India has a comparative advantage. The Bank/IDA-financed projects
have also aimed at optimizing the design, scope and selection of projects
and improving project organization anid management capabilities in the pub-
lic sector, as well as project implementation time and capacity utiliza-
tion. On the whole, these objectives have been satisfactorily achieved,
particularly in the more recent projects.
2.28      The principal lessons learnt from the Bank's involvement over the
years, described in a report currently being prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department ("Sustainability of Projects--Review of Experience in
the Fertilizer Subsector") has been that the transfer of technology in this
sector is an ongoing process which will need to continue. In continuing
its role in fostering and broadening this transfer, it is appropriate for
the Bank to support the Project in the light of this lesson. Other lessons
relate to the more conservative estimates used in this and similar projects
of plant construction times and to the need for sponsors to be selective it
using domestic suppliers of services and equipment. In addition, certain
of the older projects, particularly in the public sector, were based on
previously largely urnused technology, greatly split sources of equipment
supply, and poorly balanced plants; the projects currently being planned or
under implementation have incorporated these lessons.
2.29      As mentioned earlier, the Bank's continued involvement in India's
fertilizer sector is furthermore justified in providing support to GOI in
taking a number of sectoral initiatives (Annex 2-1) which are designed to
make India's fertilizer production and distribution more competitive,
reduce its costs and the fertilizer subsidy. Although significant measures
have already been and will continue to be taken by GOI, a continued
sectoral presence will, as in the past, allow the Bank through a coutinuing
policy dialogue, to provide catalytic suppor. for the implementation, par-
ticularly of the more difficult policy measures needed. The Bank's support
of a series of three projects (the Project plus the proposed Fertilizer
Rehabilitation anid Fertilizer Distribution projects) is to allow it to play
this catalytic role effectively.
III.  FERTILIZER DEMAND AND SUPPLY
A. Fertilizer Use in Agriculture
3.01      Annex 3-1 shows selected agricultural statistics from 1952 to
1981 (the most recent year for which overall statistics are available);
from 1952 to 1984, foodgrain output iucreased at an average annual rate of
3.4X, to 152 million tons. This compares to a population growth rate



- 14 -
during the same period, of 2.2% p.a., to 684 million. Part of this
increase in agricultural output, particularly in the aore recent past, is
attributable to changes in cropping patterns, Improved farming practices
and increasing research and extension efforts. Much of it is due, however,
to (1) the substantial expansion of irrigation and atn annual growth of 3%
of Iudia's gross irrigated area; (ii) an increase, particularly up to the
mid-1960s, in the area upder multiple cropping (at an overall annual rate
of 2.7%); (iii) the cultivation of high-yieldiug varieties (HYVs), particu-
larly of wheat and rice which since their introduction in 1966 have spread
to 26% of gross area sown; and (iv) the applicatiou of chemical fertilizers
which increased at an overall antnual rate of 16.1%. As a result of these
improvements, India is practically self-sufficient in food. Nevertheless,
to feed the growing population, continued increases in productiotn are
necessary.
3.02      India ranks third in the world in gross cultivated area (after
the USSR and the US) and has one of the largest irrigated areas. As of
1984, India's gross cultivated area stood at 173 million ha; the gross
irrigated area totaled 55 million ha of which 77% was under food grain.
Since agricultural land can only be marginally increased, further increases
in foodgrain production will have to come from more irrigation, greater use
of HYVs, further improvements iu cropping practices, especially inl rain-fed
areas, and greater use of fertilizers. Although fertilizer consumption per
hectare of gross cultivated area has increased substantially throughout
India, from 0.6 nutrient kg per hectare of arable land in 1951 to 13.6
kg/ha in 1970/71 and 36.6 kg/ha in 1983/84, the country still consumes sig-
nificantly less fertilizer per hectare than many other developing coutr-
tries, e.g., Brazil (79 kg/ha), Mexico (67 kg/ha), and China (150 kg/ha).
overall, about 85% of all fertilizer is used in irrigated areas, which
represents about 32% of the country's cultivated land; the remainder goes
to rain-fed areas which comprise less than 70% of the arable land. India's
low consumption level - particularly in nonr-irrigated areas - is partly due
to the limited availability of fertilizers in many remote parts of India;
this is frequently caused by transportation and distribution constraints
but more importantly, is due to the high risks incurred aud the low
profitability in farmers' use of modern inputs at current levels of farm
technology. To reduce these risks, GOI has recently implemented a crop
insurance scheme. Variability in water supply, inadequate extensiou
services, and logistical difficulties in selling crops at attractive prices
are other factors.
3.03      There are wide variations in the intensity of fertilizer use
among different states of India. While the Punjab recorded a nutrient
application of 149 kg/ha in 1983/84, other states used as little as 12
kg/ha. Part of this variation can be attributed to differences in the
availability of irrigation, climatic and topographical conditious and soil
characteristics, and farm income levels, but much of it is explained by the
factors described above, as well as the actual use of HYVs. Since in mauy
areas the percentage of farmers using any fertilizer at all is low and
fertilizer use is concentrated in relatively few districts, there is a
significant potential for increasing overall fertilizer consumption.



- 15 -
3.04     About 88% of all nitrogen fertilizers used is now applied in the
form of urea, the balance being supplied in the form of other straight
nitrogen or complex fertilizers composed of nitrogen (N) and phosphate
(P205), atid to a lesser extent, potassium (K20).
B.  Historical Demand and Supply
3.05      The past Indian consumption, production and importation of fer-
tilizers are shown in Annex 3-2 . The following table summarizes the past
growth rates of consumption and production:
Idia - Aver e Anul Grmth in Fetillzer Conswption and Production
(_   %)
Nitrogen              n2ghate          Potash           Totals
C             "n-      xun ;tI3nPtion Production       cm motion Production
1980/81-1984/85   10.4      15.4        12.2      12.9         8.5        10.5      14.7
1970/71-1984/85    9.7      12.0        10.0      14.3        10.7        9.5       11.7
1960/61-1984/85   14.8      16.5        13.1      11.3        12.4       14.0       14.5
Cons6umption of all fertilizers increased from 294,000 tyn in 1960/61 to 8.2
million tyu in 1984/85, representing an annual growth rate of 14%.
Nitrogen consumption, representing two-thirds of total fertilizer used,
increased at an annual rate of 14.8% from 212,000 tyn in 1960/61 to 5.5
million tyn in 1984/85. As can be seen from the table, this rate has been
decreasing over the more recent years, due to adverse conditions such as
drastic price increases in the mid-1970s and early 1980s, leading to abrupt
reductions in farmers' input-output price ratios, and the diminishing rates
at which new irrigation facilities were installed. As was described in
Chapter II, although fertilizer production has increased at a rapid pace,
it continues to lag behind consumption.  Therefore, increasing quantities
have had to be imported. In 1984/85, the supply gap covered by imports
amounted to about 29% of nitrogen demand, and to 37% for all fertilizers.
C. Projected Growth in Nitrogen Fertilizer Demand and Production
1.  Demand
3.06      Growth of fertilizer consumption is expected to continue due to
(i) GOI's sustained policies to further increase agricultural output; (ii)
the wide disparities in fertilizer use among states, providing opportuni-
ties for broadening the fertilizer demand base; and (iii) continuing
efforts to increase agricultural productivity which will lead to further
increased levels of fertilizer consumption. However, achieving future
growth at levels sitlUar to the past appears difficult not only because the
trend of declining growth rates will coutinue as the demand base widens,
but also as a result of the likely reduction in GOI's level of fertilizer
subsidization, which may have an impact on farmers' cost/benefit ratios
(paras 2.22 and 2.23). Therefore,-base case nitrogen fertilizer demand
projections used in this report assume a gradual decline in growth rates
from recent averages to 7% by 1988189 and 6% by 1995/96.  Projections which



- 16 -
are showui in Annex 3-3 point to levels of nitrogen consumption of 7.7
Allion tyn by 19897 0 and '0.6 million tyn by 1994/95. When projecting
demand even more conservatively, using a gradual reduction of average
growth rates to 5% in 1985186 and 4% by the end of this decade and
thereafter, nitrogen consumption would total 6.9 million tyn by 1989/90 and
8.8 million tyn by 1994/95. Such a scenario could be envisaged, for
example in the unlikely event that  OI decided to increase farmer prices of
fertilizers drastically without or only limited parallel increases in crop
prices.
2.   Production
3.07      Taking into account fertilizer plants presently in operation or
under constructiotn, includintg MP, Aonla and IGFC (para 2.14), India's
nitrogen production capacity will increase from the present 5.2 million tyn
to 8.2 million tyn by 1989/90. Assuming that average plant capacity utili-
zation levels for all existing plants will be raised from currently 74% to
77% by 1989/90 and 80% by 1994/95, and that the levels of capacity utiliza-
tion for the new natural gas-based plants will reach 95% within three years
of start-up, total nitrogen fertilizer production is projected to increase
from a current 3.9 million tyu to 6.9 million tyn by 1991/92. When adding
the three remaining planned natural gas-based ammonia/urea plants and
several other minor projects presently under construction or planning,
total capacity would rise to 9.4 million tyn in the early 1990's, with pro-
duction reaching 8.1 million tyn (Annex 3-3). It is unlikely, however,
that all the new plants can reach and sustain the assumed high capacity
utilization levels, given likely financial, managerial and implementation
constraints; therefore, this assumption of a production level of 8.1
million tynt of nitrogen may not be realistic, unless further capacity is
added.
3.  Demand/Supply Balance
3.08      An analysis based on the nitrogen demand and production projec-
tions described above and detailed in Annex 3-3 reveals that under realis-
tic demand growth assumptions, even after the completion of the series of
ten new gas-based plants and atn increased average capacity utilization of
all others, there will be a considerable gap between demand and supply
which will have to be covered by imports. Except in the near future when
the Thal and Hazira plants are building up their production, this gap is
likely not to fall below the level of 1.2 million tyu, antd could grow to
between 2.5 and 3.7 million tyn by 1995.  When assuming a lower demand
growth (para 3.07), there would still be nitrogen supply shortages, albeit
at lower levels, until the early 1990s; under such an assumption, a
balanced situation could be reached by the mid-1990s before the gap
increases again; therefore, only in the event that demand growth were
limited to these conservative levels, further additiotnal capacity would
not be needed until the late 1990s.



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT SPONSOR
A.   Organization and Management
4.01      IFFCO was registered in 1967 as a Central Cooperative Society.
The Company's paid-in share capital stood at Re 970 million (US$75 million)
in June 1985, of which Ro 562 million (58%) was subscribed by GOt, and Rs
408 million (42%) by member cooperatives. The Company's Board of Directors
consists of 31 members, including 12 from the shareholding cooperatives.
The Board has adequate powers to provide policy direction to company execu-
tives, including authorization of capital and operating budgets, and guid-
ance ont employment and compeisation policies; its chairman is proposed by
IFFCO's constituent cooperatives. Mr. M. H. Avadhani, Malaging Director of
IFFCO, antd the members of his management team are highly competent and
experienced in the fertilizer industry. Bio-data of members of the manage-
vment team are showu in Project File - Ref. B. IFFCO's organization
(Annex 4-1) includes three production plants, a finance division, a
marketing division, and au administration unit. The Company's staff number
4,945, including 1,920 professionals and technicians. IFFCO has been able
to attract and retain competent staff at all levels; its inr-house training
system is extensive, and managers regularly attend outside management
training institutions.
4.02      IFFCO is one of the best managed fertilizer companies in India,
as indicated by the high capacity utilizationi rates of its plants. The
Company has a well structured management and intertnal control system,
including external and internal audit arrangements. Its management inform-
ation system and efficiency were evaluated utilizing the Bank's 'Guidelines
for Evaluating the Management Information Systems of Industrial Enter-
prises". Project File - Ref. C, gives the results of the evaluation,
according to which, on a 5-point scale, IFFCO's management information
system is rated overall at 4.3, underlining IFFCO's highly satisfactory
performance. It can be concluded that there is no major managerial risk in
IFFCO's implementing and operating the Project.
B.   Plants and Production Performance
4.03      IFFCO operates fertilizer production facilities at three loca-
tions--Kandla, Kalol and Phulpur (Map A). The seaboard Kandla plant was
the first to go on stream in 1975, designed to produce complex fertilizer
at a capacity of 127,000 tpy of P205 in two trains, using the slurry/granu-
lation process. Since the addition of two further trains in 1981, plant
capacity has been expanded to 315,700 tpy of P205, based on the production
of three DAP and NPK product grades. Phosphoric acid, potash and part of
the ammonia raw material requirements are imported and the balance of
ammonia is supplied from Kalol. The Kalol planit, consisting of a 910 tpd
ammonia unit and a 1,200 tpd urea unit, was brought on stream in 1975 and
uses natural gas as feedstock. At the Bank-financed Phulpur plant (Loan
IN-1079), commercial production began in 1981 from a 900 tpd ammonia unit
and a 1,500 tpd urea unit, using naphtha as feedstock.



- 18 -
4.04      IFFCO has generally maintained a high level of capacity utiliza-
tion in its plants, which in 1984/85 averaged 107%. Despite their highly
satisfactory production performance, there are a number of measures (des-
cribed in Chapter V) that need to be taken as a result of changes in feed-
stock specifications and infrastructure conditions as well as aging of
equipment, to increase the plants' operational efficiency.
C. Historical and Projected Financial Performance
4.05      IFFCO's financial statements for the period 1979/80 to 1984/85
are summarized in Annex 4-2. Key indicators for the most recent four years
as well as projections (without the Project) for the years until completion
of the Aonla project (further detailed in Chapter VIII) are showen in the
table on the following page.  From 1981/82 to 1984/85, revenues increased
from Rs 4.5 billion to Rs 5.7 billion, primarily because of retentiou price
adjustments and some sales of imported fertilizer. Income before taxes did
not always increase commensurately because of some time-lag of cost recov-
ery through the retention price system, as well as temporary plant shut-
downs caused by power cuts.  As demonstrated by its debt/equity and current
ratios, IFFCO's capital structure is strong and its internal cash genera-
tion healthy. Retained earnings have been supplemented by minor additions
of share capital resulting from the capitalizaton of fertilizer sales dis-
counts to cooperatives, currently at an atnnual rate of US$1.7 million.
IFFCO will restart to pay iucome taxes after using up past investment
credits, and therefore net income will decline in the future; however, its
cash position is projected to remain satisfactory and its capital structure
further strengthened. This is due in part also to IFFCO's practice of dis-
tributing only token amounts as dividends, a policy the Company will conti-
nue. Thus, while partly meeting capital expenditures for recurring and
already committed investments (including a new soda ash/ammonium chloride
plant), aggregating US$80 million from 1985/86 to 1989/90, and debt repay-
ment requirements (US$70 million), IFFCO will be able to provide an esti-
mated US$40 million in surplus internally generated funds for the Project.
IFFCO's financial records are audited by reputable domestic chartered
accountant firms.
D.   Marketing
4.06      In line with GOI's current fertilizer distribution plans, 77% of
the Aonla plant's urea production is expected to be consumed in UP, with
only 15% in Punjab, and 8% in Haryana. In UP where also the Phulpur plant
is located, IFFCO has established a solid competitive marketing position
through active efforts including field demonstrations and agricultural
seminars for farmers, and i8 oae of the few producers actively involved in
extension services. The urea supply from the Phulpur plant to the UP
market currently accounts for 36% of the total indigenous supply to this
state. Thus, a market seeding program will not be required for the Aonla
project.
4.07      The marketing function of IFFCO is centered in New Delhi, with 48
field offices at various locations and transportation units at the existing



- 19 -
plantts. Annex 4-3 gives IFFCO's marketing organization structure. The
Compatiy currently employs 372 field officers, most of them agricultural
iF1m  - S y  of Historicl and P    pected Prukcdti
and FivAiial Stateents
(In millos of   rent rupees, mlm otvise mted)
1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85    1985/86 1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
Atla - -                                   -cted a1
Produtboti ('000 txos)
Kai$!a -
NPK (10-26-26)         121       92     100      190        145      165     165      165
NPK (12-32-16)         651      524     335      455        465     535      535     535
DAP (18-46-0)           34      182     344      300        355     400      400     400
Kalol- Urea              390      401     383      365        350     350      350     350
Phulpur - Urea           394     401      323     425         450     450      450     450
btal Poductio       1,590   1,600   1,485   1,735        1,765   1,900   1,900   1,900
Revewes                   4,484   5,146   5,379   5,743        5,911   6,827   7,159   7,712
Net Incoe Before Taxs       413     442      413     491         322     480      464     541
Net Inee After Taxes       413     442      413     362         193     314      269     338
Total Equity              2,414   2,815   3,187   3,512        3,669   3,948   4,181   4,482
toag-Term Debt            2,008   2,085   1,615      828         793     782      797     983
Current Assets            2,393   3,363   3,616   3,758        3,995   4,221   4,445   4,673
om rntl           b/        798   1,26   1,714   2,401         2,604   2,559   2,631   2,699
Intertal Cash Geeratioun    642     752      732     671        508      639     536      614
Capital Expediturs          134      52       72     244         167     171      173     332
Ivesbtflts                   65     185      290     230        236        6       6        6
Projected Surplus Cash        -       -        -       -          -      145      329     594
Net Inaae After
Taxes/Revenues             9.2%    8.8%    7.7%  5.0%         3.3%    4.6%    3.8%    4.4%
Curret Ratio                  3.0     2.7      2.1   1.6         1.5     1.6      1.7     1.7
Debt/Eqity Ratio            45/55   43/57   34/66 19/81        18/82   17/83   16/84   18/82
a/ Items reated to Aonla project as well as effect on rwam and osts of Unxoted
fetlizeras sold by nIVO have beew reived.
b/ curent aset and lablity projections are basd on anrul verages, actual on yem-end
data when iuventorias and reoeivabls are seasonally bMgb  ProjectIs inclide short-term
portion of Loug-tem debt.
graduates, engaged in both logistics operation and product promotion.
Field offices are structured in three tiers: zonal, State and area levels.
To strengthen the fertilizer promotion and extension service, agronomists



- 20 -
are usually posted at each field office.  To meet the future increase in
IFFCO's fertilizer volume, mainly from the Aonla project, IFFCO plans to
expand its marketing capacities: by 1991/92, the number of field offices
will be increased to 70, and the number of officers, to 475.
4.08      IFFCO's marketing and distribution capabilities are satisfactory
to handle the increasing volume. Its strong organizational tie with the
agricultural cooperatives clearly provides the compauy with a competitive
edge in terms of market information feedback from cooperative member
farmers and a certain brand loyalty. Thus, there should be no major mar-
keting risk for the Project.
V.   THE PROJECT
5.01      The proposed Project includes:  (i) new facilities for the
production of ammonia and urea at Aonla, based on steam-reforming of non-
associated natural gas,3/ (ii) a number of measures to improve the fertil-
izer production efficiency of IFFCO's three existing plants4/, (iii) a
cotnsultant study to assist GOI in the establishment of a management perfor-
mantce evaluation and control system for the public sector fertilizer indus-
try, and (iv) imports of fertilizers and fertilizer raw materials.
A. Obiectives and Bank Role
5.02      The Project's main objectives are to expand domestic nitrogenous
fertilizer capacity, and to increase the utilization rates of existing
plants in the cooperative sector, to help lessen India's dependence on
imports. Without increased fertilizer production, imports are bound to
grow as a result of India's increasing food demand and thus, fertilizer
consumption. By resulting in increased fertilizer production in India's
main agricultural areas, the Project also aims at reducing the volume of
transportation of fertilizer from coastal ports and plants to northernt
states. GOI expects that greater availability of fertilizer will stimulate
its consumption in areas where this is still at low levels. The Aonla pro-
ject's scope and design reflect today's proven 'state of the art' and eco-
nomies of scale in fertilizer production technology, and its implementation
will thus further the transfer of technology being pursued by GOI. Funding
of a study to establish a management performance evaluation and control
system aims at improving existing institutional arrangements for the
management of public sector plants in order to enhance their performance
and increase their levels of capacity utilization. The Bank is furthermore
supporting GOI's initiatives in the fertilizer sector by providing US$150
million to assist GOI in meeting its imports requirements for fertilizer
materials, to bridge the domestic production shortfall, and to free up that
amount of GOI funds to permit making the efficiency investmentq required to
meet the targets outlined in para 2.04.
3/   See Feasibility Report in Project File Ref. D.
4/   See 'Proposal for Revamp of IFFCO Units- in Project File Ref. E.



- 21 -
5.03      Over the years, the Bank has played ant important role in helping
India to build up her fertilizer production capacity and assisting in the
development of operating know-how; the Bank's participation in the Project
would be in continuation of this role.  The earlier Indian fertilizer
industry projects were ofteni hampered by extended delays In completiou anid
protracted commissioning periods; furthermore, past projects were frequent-
ly uiot executed in the most cost-efficient manner. By being involved in
this Project, the Bank can help ensure that cost-efficient arrangements
for implementation are effected through the use of international competi-
tive bidding procedures, that conisultants' work to define rehabilitation
Investments and to improve capacity utilization is carried out satisfacto-
rily, and that overall project implementation arrangements are advanta-
geous. Through the Project, the Bank would be well placed to coutinue its
dialogue with the Govertment on sector policies (para 2.29).
B.   Scoppe. Technology and Locations
5.04      Aonla Component.  The .4onla plant scope consists of: (a) a
single-train 1,350 tpd ammonia unit; (b) two 1,100 tpd urea units with a
common 2,200 tpd prilling tower; (c) integrated power and steam generation
facilities, including two 18 MW gas turbine generators, two exhaust heat
recovery units of 80 tph steam each, and one 150 tph boiler; (d) raw water
aud effluent treatment facilities, water demineralization plant and cooling
water systems; (e) storage for 10,000 tons of refrigerated ammonia and for
45,000 tons of bulk urea, and facilities for bagging urea; (f) other
related offsites; and (g) infrastticture, including a township with 985
housing units, rail link and transmission lines for power supply from the
grid.
5.05      The Project ammonia unit employs technology from Haldor Topsoe
A/S (Denmark); its capacity antd design are the same as that for the ammoniia
unit of the MP Project and the two units of the Thal complex. The two urea
units use the ammonia-stripping technology offered by Snamprogetti (Italy);
their capacity and design are similar to each of the four urea units at
Hazira and to the two units of the MP Project. These units are the largest
installed in India and their design has been used successfully in plants of
such capacity elsewhere. In view of the duplication of the conservative
design philosophy adopted for Thal and MP, which incorporate additional
design margins in critical process areas, the ammonia planit will have a
higher level of stable average operation than is typical for such plants.
It is therefore expected that after a production build-up period of about
two years, the Aonla ammonia/urea train will reach and maintain an average
production at 95% of daily rated capacity, which is equivalent to the pro-
duction of 689,700 tpy of urea and an additional reserve ammonia capacity
of about 20,000 tpy.
5.06      The plant is to be located at one of the sites (Map B) selected
by GOI on the basis of detailed studies for the construction of six ammo-
nia/urea complexes (all of s.milar scope) based on1 natural gas to be sup-
plied by the HBJ pipeline. The site selection criteria, the analyses
carried out and the final choice of the Aoula location by GMI-appointed
committees are satisfactory. Annex 5-1 describes details of the Aonla



- 22 -
location and project infrastructure. Map C provides details of the loca-
tiorn aud site lay-out.  Project File - Ref. F contains land acquisition
documenits and site studies.
5.07      Rehabilitation Component.  The measures required at the existing
IFFCO platnts in ord;r to increase their operational efficiencies, which
have suffered as a result of changes in feedstock specifications aid
iufrastructure conditions as well as ageing of equipment, were identified
by staff of IFFCO's process and project engineering and maintenance groups
at each of the sites. As necessary, certain of the definitive schemes low
proposed were developed in consultation with the appropriste engineering
conttractors/process licensors. A description of the schemes to be imple-
mented at IFFCO's three plants is given in Annex 5-2. The following para-
graphs summarize the principal schemes.
5.08      Phulpur Plant.  This is IFFCO's most modern facility, where a
purge gas recovery uuit has recently been commissioned. Output, however,
is currently constrained to about 90X of capacity due to the higher than
expected content of aromatics in the naphtha feedstock. The aromatic con-
tenit is likely to increase further as more of the naphtha will be based on
Bombay High crude oil, resulting in even less capacity utilization, and the
optimum level of plant operation can only be attained by a major modifica-
tion of the primary reformer. Improved on-stream performance of the plant
can be achieved by reducing steam shortages, through replacement of the
boiler-fuel (coal) grinding mills with larger capacity machines, and by
better preventive maintenance, for which the existing inspection equipment
.is inadequate. Other energy conservation, operational efficiency and pol-
lution control measures have been identified in the plant. However, the
site has not yet been subjected to an end-to-end energy audit and engineer-
ing study to determine the optimal program for rehabilitation; such a
survey, proposed to be funded under the Project, is required prior to a
final decision on the various actions required.
5.09      Kalol Plant.  This plant has been in operation since 1975.  An
extensive rehabilitation program is needed to improve energy consumption
and to maintain operating reliability, product quality and adherence to
statutory safety and pollution requirements.  The various categories of
work include:  (i) rehabilitation of the urea plant, in consultation with
Stamicarbon, the process licensor; (ii) modifications in the primary
reformer convection zone (with support from its engineering companv, M. W.
Kellogg), replacement of heat exchangers, and purification of syuthesis gas
make-up; (iii) replacement of the inert gas generation plant and of ageing
process equipment, as well as renovation of water treatment and cooling
water facilities; (iv) purchase of instrumentation and inspection equipment
for operational efficiency; and (v) additional ammonia storage, various
pollution control measures, a cooling system to improve the quality of urea
prills and a unit to produce urea supergranules.
5.10      Kandla Plant.  It is proposed to retrofit, initially, two of the
DAP/NPK trains with the pipe reactor or pressure reactor process. This
will lower the water content in the slurry, resulting in a lower ratio of
recycled material to product, thereby increasing the production rate (by at



- 23 -
least 25%, depending on product grade) and reducing the specific consump-
tion of fuel oil and power. The project also includes: (i) additional
storage capacity (2 x 10,000 tons) for imported phosphoric acid; (1i) extra
product bulk storage capacity and the necessary material handling equip-
ment; and (iii) a 3,000 tpd bagging facility atnd others for storage of
bagged product and empty bags. In addition, to ensure reliability of water
supply antd improve operational efficiency, IFFCO proposes to develop an
alternative source of water to the existing inadequate dam and tube well
supplies, by installing a seawater desalination unit.
C.   Supply of Gas and Other Utilities
5.11      Natural Gas.  Natural gas for the Aonla plant from the offshore
gas fields in the Arabian Sea will be transported through the RBJ gas pipe-
line, as shown on Map B. Details of the available gas resource aud its
users as well as the description of the pipeline and its proposed Implemen-
tation progran are described in Annex 5-3. The information obtained from
GOI and the agencies responsible for implementing the pipeline indicates
that there will at least be sufficient gas for the process needs of the
Aonla aud other projected fertilizer plants and also certain other users;
based on the currently planned output of the second phase of gas production
development from the South Bassein field under execution, GOI projections
submitted to the Bank show the possibility that marginal deficits can occur
in the early 1990's if all user projects are Implemented according to their
present schedules, and all consume the committed gas supply allocations.
It is envisaged, however, that such a deficit could be handled by addition-
al gas production and off-shore pipelining, if and when needed, or by: (i)
interrupting gas supply to power plants which will have the capability of
using alternative liquid fuels; and (ii) using liquid fuels to generate
power and steam within the fertilizer projects.
5.12      Construction of the HBJ pipeline is expected to commence by mid-
1986. Its implementation schedule as presently foreseen (Annex 5-3) is
tight, allowing about 14 months for construction of the 1,210 km stretch to
Aonla, where according to the bidding terms for the pipeline construction
contract, gas is expected to be available by August 1987, which has been
confirmed by GOI. This is about four months later than would be required
for starting up boilers for testing purposes under IFFCO's 42-month imple-
mentation schedule, but would be in time for boiler start-up under the more
conservative 48-month schedule assumed to be achilities as well as needed
in proven technology which has been applied in other projects in India.
Execution of this component is now in its initial phases. The Rehabilita-
tion Component for which US$40 million of the IFFCO Loan is to be used, is
under preparation and will be ready to begin Implementation later in 1986.
It is designed to increase production and energy efficiencies at three
existing plants in the cooperative sector which long term, the ability to
gwill, in addition, cope with shortfalls which may arise in supply of the
non-process gas requirements.



- 24 -
5.13      Gas supply arratgements between IFFCO and the Gas Authority of
India Ltd. (GAIL), have been substantially completed in principle. IFFCO
has agreed to formalize the agreement on terms and couiditions satisfactory
to the Baik by June 30, 1987 and sufficiently in advance of plaut
commissioning.
5.14      Power.  In order to avoid power interruptions and ensure sus-
taitned plant operation, thereby preventing damage to equipment and cata-
lysts, the Project will include two gas-turbine driven geuerator sets, each
coupled to a heat recovery steam getneration unit and having a capacity of
18 MW. The power plant will normally supply about 15 MW for operating the-
process and offsite plants. The rest of the plant's power needs for the
less critical facilities will be drawn from the UP State Electricity Board
(UPSEB) grid system through 25 km,-twin 132 KV tranismission lines to be
laid between the project site anid the UPSEB Bareilly substation. These
facilities will have the capacity to temporarily supply the entire project
load; a continuous load of up to 8 MW has been sanctioned by the UPSEB.
Project File - Ref. G contains supporting documentation on power supply as
well as other infrastructure arrangements.  The UPSEB has confirmed that
the grid has adequate capacity for these purposes; the linkage will be com-
pleted by mid-1986 at a cost to the Profect of about US$2 million. A 2 MW
diesel-driveu generator would provide emergenicy power to critical equipment
in case of failure of the main sources of power supply. The Aonla plant
will require a maximum of about 2 MW of power during the construction
stage. To etnsure reliability of supply, UPSEB has approved this power to
be drawn through temporary feeders, to be financed under the Project, from
two sources of 37.5 KV; a line from the Aonla substation to the site is
already in use.
5.15      Water.  Local surface water sources are insufficient to supply
the Project requirements of up to 45,000 cubic meters per day (CMD) of
water. On the basis of promising results from an earlier hydrogeological
study of the area, IFFCO commissioned a detailed study of the potential
supply of water from tubewells (Project File - Ref. G) and the supervision
of two exploratory wells drilled to a depth of up to 300 meters. The evi-
dence is that aquifers in the area will allow wells operating at such a
depth to produce at about 300 cubic meters per hour without adversely
affecting other shallow tubewells in the area, and that correct spacing of
wells around the site will minimize mutual interference between their per-
formance. On this basis, IFFCO has contracted the design of a battery of
10 production tubewells at the plant site, including 5 tubewells in the
township area, to produce the required quantity of water from 6 or 7 wells
in operation at any time.  Followintg its clearance by the Central Ground-
Water Board, the well-field design report has been reviewed and the pro-
posed provisions for water supply to the Project are cousidered acceptable.
D.   Environmental Considerations
5.16      The location of the Aonla plant in a nonr-fertile antd sparsely
populated area will not cause atny significant change in the general nature
of the local environment. The fertilizer complex, with any associated
small/medium-scale industry that may later develop, is expected rather to



- 25 -
enhance the living standards of people in the area. The plant will be
designied and operated to meet the liquid effluent tolerances and limits for
gaseous emissions according to Indian standards which are comparable to
those applied for such facilities in industrialized countries and are Con-
sidered satisfactory. These have been incorporated into the contracts
between IFFCO and its engineering cotnsultants and form part of the process
guarautees to be met by them without l1mit to their liabilities
(Annex 5-4), The potential pollutants from the Aonla project are: (i)
liquid effluents from the process plants, containing ammouia and urea, and
from the fresh water treatment facilities and demineralization plant; (ii)
gaseous emissions containing urea dust from the prilling tower; anld (iii)
sludge from the effluent treatment plant. The necessary treatmtent measures
to be adopted are described in Annex 5-5. For the Rehabilitation Compo-
nent, various measures at the existing IFFCO plants are designed to reduce
effluents and treat any pollutant problems in order to comply with or
improve upon statutory requirements and modern industry pollution control
practices.
5.17      Assurances have been obtained from IFFCO that execution and
operation of the Project will be carried out with due regard to safety,
ecological and environmental factors, and comply with environmental
standards satisfactory to the Batnk.
E.   Study and Imports Components
5.18      Under the Project, the Batik will assist GOI in further developing
its managementt information system currently being implemented by the
Department of Fertilizers by funding a study by internationally experienced
consultants focussing oi Ci) the incorporatiou in the existing system of
elements of periodic evaluation of compatny performauce, (ii) setting up a
signalling system to highlight out-of-line situations, (iii) establishing a
cotntrol over follow-up actions and (iv) incorporating management incentive
features to foster efficiency in operations. Such assistance, to be based
on the Bank's experience in other countries, will take the form of a review
of the present system, resulting in recommendations for expansion of the
system, together with linkages to management selection, promotion and
incentive practices, and other improvements.  This study should be initiat-
ed by September 1986, following agreement with GOI on the terms of refer-
ence for the study no later than by June 1986. GOI has agreed to complete
the study by June 30, 1987.
5.19      India is currently importing anntually about US$500-750 million
worth of fertilizers to make up the shortfall in domestic production (para
2.02). The Bank's support under the Project is designed to ease the finat-
cial burden on GOI's budget caused by these imports by funding the import
of fertilizer and relaLed raw materials up to a value of US$150 million.
The Mines and Minerals Trading Corporation, a government entity, would
implement this component as part of its ongoing responsibility for import-
ing the countryts fertilizer requirements.



- 26 -
VI. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTION
6.01      Annex 6-1 describes in detail the arrangements for engineering,
transfer of technology, project management and implementation and also
provisions for operational manpower and training for the Aonla plant.
ProIect File Ref. H contains the license, engineering, aud construction
supervision agreements.  These arrangements have been reviewed by the
mission and were found to be acceptable.  IFFCO's manpower development
plan, included in Project File Ref. I, is also cousidered acceptable.
6.02      IFFCO's overall schedule shown in Annex 6-2 of 42 months for com-
pletion of the Aonla project from the 'zero date of October 1, 1984, is
based on (i) a 36-month period to mechanical completion of the process
plants and associated offsite facilities (by October I, 1987) and (ii) six
months for commissioning, performance guarantee tests and plant stabiliza-
tion, with the start of commercial operation on April 1, 1988. This sche-
dule appears somewhat ambitious although achievable in principle, bearing
in mind that the Aonla project will benefit from experience of the similar
and completed Thal and Hazira projects: these multi-unit projects experi-
enced delays of six to eight months in respect of their first phase units,
but these delays were largely absorbed by the second phase units being
completed at about the same time (due to the repeat nature of procurement)
and within 48 months. The mission thus considers this to be a more prudent
schedule for the Aonla project, and is assuming 45 months to mechanical
completion, plus a shorter commissioning period of 3 months, which should
be achievable. A 48-month schedule also provides increased room to accom-
modate some possible delay in completion of the HBJ pipeline (para 5.12)
and takes into account (i) the present execution performauce being achieved
on the MP Project, which is not facing auy serious delay on the part of the
project itself; (ii) IFFCO's past performance in bringing its plants into
commercial operation in e timely manner; (iii) the consultants' familiarity
with execution of the technology and of the conditions for project imple-
mentation in India; and (iv) experience gained by Indiau contractors and
equipment manufacturers from the earlier projects.
6.03      Nevertheless, there is a risk that the Aoala Component may be
further delayed as a result of delays in construction of the HBJ pipeline.
A more pessimistic schedule is therefore assumed for the Project's basic
financial and economic projections (Chapters VIII and Ix), which are con-
sistent with the Bank's standard profile for disbursements: the base case
assumption is of a six year period for completion of disbursements, with
commercial operation of the project commencing after 63 months from zero
date, i.e. January 1, 1990. Throughout the first nine months of operation,
certain residual capital expenditures, amounting to about 3Z of the total,
are likely to be incurred, owing to late payments, the release of retention
monies on performance of goods and services, and the continuance of work on
non-critical items not affecting production. The aforementioned case for
completion of the project under a four-year implementation and disbursement
period is analyzed in the financial and economic sensitivity analyses as a
likely but less conservative scenario.



- 27 -
6.04      Implementation of the Rehabilitation Component is expected to
last from 1986 to 1990, as indicated in Annex 5-2. The 29 individual sub-
components are estimated by IFFCO to take two to three years each to com-
plete. In the Bank's experience with this type of multi-component project,
however, implementation tends to become protracted due to the many organi-
zations involved and with activities at three different locations. A
6-year execution and disbursement profile typical of Bank-financed projects
in this industry has therefore been assumed.
6.05      Project preparations for the Aonla Component have been completed
with respect to scope aud design of the manufacturing facilities, the pro-
vision of feedstock, utilities 8nd infrastructure, and also the Implementa-
tion arraugements. Project execution has now started and the detailed
engineering should be finished by mid-1986 when most of the major equipment
orders will have been placed and mechanical erection is scheduled to
begin. At the end of March 1986, engineering, procurement and construction
activities on the process units were 74%, 44% and 14% complete, respective-
ly, and the overall advancement in other areas was 35% for the steam and
power generation plant atnd distribution systems, 33% for offsites, and 51%
for township and other remaining items. With regard to preparation of the
Rehabilitation Component, the design and engineering requirements, although
not yet definitive, are relatively less significant and, in general, can be
completed for each element in a short period. Much of the work will conr-
sist of specification of individual equipment items already identified, the
ordering of packaged units of a standard nature available from engineering
contractors/suppliers and, in some instances, the replacement of existing
equipment. Also, definition of some of the schemes will follow the etnergy
audit and engineering studies to be undertaken under the Project, particu-
larly in the case of the Phulpur unit. IFFcO is in the process of develop-
ing a detailed plan for project management and execution of the Rehabilita-
tion Component, which will be submitted to the Bank by December 1986.
VII. CAPITAL COST, FINANCING PLAN. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
7.01      The total Project capital cost, including working capital and
interest during construction, is estimated at US$917.9 million, relating to
the following components:
Total Project Capital Cost
(US$ million)
Component                             Local       Foreign      Total
Aonla                                 301.7        331.4       633.1
Rehabilitation                         81.8         52.7       134.5
Fertilizer Imports                      -          150.0       150.0
Study                                   0.1          0.2         0.3
Total                       383.6       534.3        917.9



- 28 -
The Project is proposed to be financed with (1) the proposed Bank loans
to IFFCO (US$152.0 million) and to GOI (US$150.2 million), (ii) bilateral
credits to GOI from OECF (US$126.8 million) from the Government of Italy
(US$18.0 million) and DANIDA, an ageucy of the government of Denmark
(US$6.0 million), (iii) other borrowings by IFFCO (US$179.9 million), (iv)
fresh equity from GOI (US$152.5 million) and IFFCO's c&-nstituent coopera-
tives (US$34.6 million), and (v) IFFCO's internal cash generation (US$97.9
million).
7.02      The Bank loan to IFFCO (the IFFCO Loan) (for the Aonla and
Rehabilitation components) is to be made directly to IFFCO, which will
carry the foreign exchange risk. The Government as the guarantor of the
loan will charge IFFCO a guarantee fee, which, together with an assumed
cost of covering IFFCO's exchange risk, is expected to raise the total
annual cost of the loan to 14X; this corresponds to the prevailing cost
IFFCO would incur with long-term local currency borrowings. The repayment
period of the IFFCO Loan is 15 years, including five years of grace. The
Bank Loan to GOI (the GOI Loan) for the Fertilizer Imports and Study Compo-
nents is to be made to GOI with a 15-year repayment period including five
years of grace.
A.   Aonla Component
7.03      Capital Cost.  The total financing required for the Aonla
Component is estimated at US$633.1 million equivalent (Rs 8,230 million),
including adequate provisions for infrastructure, physical contingencies,
price escalation, working capital and interest during construction.
Capital and operating costs related to the provision of gas are not
included but will be reflected in the gas user charge. Total foreign
exchange requirements of the Aonla project are estimated at US$ 331.4
million. The detailed breakdown of the capital cost estimate into major
categories is given in Annex 7-1 and summarized in the following table.



- 29 -
Aonla - Capital Cost Estlmate
Rs million               US$ Million a/
Local Foreign Total   Local Pore£n   Total
Equipment, Materials 6 Spares          624   2,274   2,898     48.0   174.9    222.9
Frelght, Handling & Insurance           83     296     379       6.3    22.8     29.1
Excise Duties and Taxes                171             171      13.2     -       13.2
Sub-total                         878   2,570   3,448     67.5   197.7    265.2
License &-Engineeriug Services         205     213     418      15.8    16.4     32.2
Project Management & Insurance         180      12     192      13.9     0.9     14.8
Land & Site Development                114       -     114       8.7     -        8.7
Civil Works & Building                 326     244     570      25.1    18.7.    43.8
Erection & Commissioning               299      56     355      23.0     4.4     27.4
Township                               217      20     237      16.7     1.5     18.2
Infrastructure                         110      10     120      8.4      0.8      9.2
Total Base Cost  sttimate (BCE)   2,329   3,125   5,454    179.1   240.4    419.5
Physical Contingencies (PHC, 1.6%
of BCE)                                35      54      89       2.7     4.1      6.8
Price Contingencies (9.1% of BCE
+ PUc)                                192     312     504      14.8    24.0     38.8
Total Installed Cost            25    T9    6,047    196.6   268.5    465.1
Working Capital b/                   1,095       -   1,095      84.2     -       84.2
Interest During Construction           271     817   1.088     20.9    62.9      83.8
Total Financing Required        3,922   4,308   8,230    301.7   331.4    633.1
a/   US$1 - RS 13.0.
b/ Working capital requirements at 95% capacity utilization of plant.
7.04      The base cost estimate is expressed in Deceuber 1985 prices and
developed as follows: (i) ammonia plant costs were based upon the
definitive costs for the duplicate units of the Thal project, completed in
1985; (ii) costs of the urea plants were directly derived from costs
incurred for the completed Hazira project; (iii) offsites costs were
developed from IEFCO's in-house experience and take into account the data
available from Thal and Razira; (iv) Aonla site-related costs are well



- 30 -
defined as a result of completed land, hydrogeological and infrastructure
surveys; and (v) consultants fees and rates have actually been negotiated
for engineering and construction services.
7.05      Since essentially the same cost information (from the Thal and
Hazira projects) was used as the basis for estimating the capital costs of
the MP Project, now at an advanced stage of procurement, the prices
prevailing for equipment being bid for that project were analyzed and taken
into account in development of the Aonla project cost estimate.
Furthermore, a recent analysis of the Aonla project costs by IFFCO, which
establishes the commitments made for procurement of goods and services up
to March 1986, actual expenditures to that date and also the remaining
scope and estimated cost of goods and services yet to be committed, has
been used to further refine the base cost estimate. The physical
contingency allowance of 1.6Z is considered appropriate in view of the high
degree in definition of design, the applicability of the recent cost
information available from similar projects in India and the present
advanced state of execution of the Project. The installed cost estimate
assumes annual foreign price escalation rates of 6% for 1986, 6.8% for 1987
and 1988, 7.0% for 1989 and 7.1% for 1990, in line with price projections
recommended by the Bank's Commodity Studies and Projections Division. The
same rates are presumed to apply for local price escalation (as advised by
the Country Programs Division) on the basis of the assumed exchange rate of
Rs 13 to US$1.
7.06      Financing Plan.  The following table gives a preliminary
financing plan for the Aonla Component:
Aonla - Preliminary Financing Plan
(in million US$)
Sources                    Local    Foreign    Total      %
Long-Term Debt
World Bank                       -       112.0       112.0    17.7
OECF                             -       126.8       126.8    20.1
Government of Italy              -        18.0        18.0     2.8
DANIDA                           -         6.0         6.0      .9
GOI                             79.9       5.7        85.4    13.5
68.55-58.2  5.0
Equity
GOI                             89.5      62.9       152.4    24.0
Cooperatives                    34.6       -          34.6     5.6
IFFCO Internal Funds            40.0       -          40.0     6.2
16.1       MT        227.70   35.8
Internal Cash Generation
of the Project                 57.9       -          57.9     9.2
Total Financing Plan           301.7     331.4       633.1   100.0
-_ w



- 31 -
7.07      In the financing plan for the Aonla Component, essentially except
for foreign exchange interest during construction, foreign exchange costs
are assumed to be covered by foreign debt, and local currency costs by
equity contributions. The foreign exchange debt and equity contributions
by GOI are basically intended to fund interest during construction on
foreign debt. In addition to the US$112.0 million portion of the proposed
IFFCO Loan to be applled mainly to equipment purchases and materials,
US$211.2 million equivalent in debt and equity financing for both local and
forelgn expenditures will be provided through (i) loans to GOI from OECF,
totalling US$126.8 million;5/ (ii) loans to GOI from the Governments of
Italy and Denmark for US$18.0 million and US$6.0 million respectively; and
(iii) GOT loans (supplemented as necessary by loans from domestic financial
institutions as well as supplier's credits) for which arrangemeats would be
finalized during the procurement cycle (US$94.5 million). The debt
financing for Aonla will thus amount to US$357.3 million or 55% of the
total financing requirements of this component. The equity financing,
equivalent to US$235.1 million or about 36% of the total financing
requirements, will be provided by GO (US$160.5 million), IFFCO's
constituent cooperatives (US$34.6 million), and internal cash generation by
IFFCO's existing operations (US$40.0 million). In addition, the internal
cash generation of the Aonla project (US$57.3 million), expected to be
available beginning with the second year of operation, will finance
incremental working capital requirements.
7.08      IFFCO's equity contribution will come from the cash generated in
its existing operations, after meeting other funding commitments including
for recurring investments, repayment of loans, and funding for ongoing
investment projects (para 4.05). Assurances have been obtained from IFFCO
to limit, during project implementation, capital expenditures other than
for the Project, to an aggregate of US$80 million, including for the soda
ash project, and that no existing debt will be prepaid. GOI's equity
contribution (US$152.4 million) will in effect come from its development
budget (US$58 million), excise taxes on equipment for the Project (US$38
million), and the interest during construction (US$56 million) payable by
IFFCO on GOI and cofinancing loans. GOI has agreed to make available
adequate and timely funds to IFFCO for the Aonla Component up to the
equivalent of US$267.8 million, and that it will make available to IFFCO
any additional funds required to cover any shortfall in the Aonla Component
financing plan on terms satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Rehabilitation Component
7.09      Capital Cost.  The estimated capital cost of the various
rehabilitation measures proposed to be funded under this component is
detailed in Annex 7-2 and summarized as follows:
5/   OECF loans carry 30-year repayment periods, including a 10-year grace
period and 3.25% interest rate. This loan will be onlent to IFFCO at
GOI's long-term lending rate to the cooperative sector (14%), with a
repayient period of 15 years including 5 years of grace.



- 32 -
Rdhtitatiai - CtaLi±a cost Estiuste
Res ad llmfal         US$ miill
T1caL   Paore    TTotal   LAl  Foream  Toa
P"W4PUr Plant                      148    135   283       1.     1.OA    21.8
Kalol Plant                        323    210   533       24.8   16.2   4140
KamiLa Plant                       35      94   229       1OA     7.2   17.6
Tot  Base Cost Estfrte (DM)    606    439  1,045      46.6   33.8   80.4
Phsal              ( sC, 101X
of Bi)                            60      44   104       4.7    3.3    8.0
Price nQmtlasides (13.6? of
B  + PHC)                         115     41   156       8.8    3.2   12.0
Total Instaled Cost            781    524  1,305      60.1   40.3  100.4
Interest During (brtruction       282    161   443       21-?   12.4   34.1
Total Fliaxnng ReqIred        1,063    685  1,748     81.8   52.7  134.5
Base cost estimates were prepared by IFFCO technical staff and are
considered satisfactory on the basis of: (i) preliminary designs for
process area/major equipment retrofits, developed in consultation with the
original engineering firms and operating companies; (it) suppliers'
quotations for subcomponents involving equipment replacements, additional
equipment and new packaged plant units; (iii) inr-house information on
plant, equipment and materials costs; and (iv) information from
licensors/engineering firms. Physical contingencies, at 10 of the base
cost estimate, are higher than for Aonla due to the rehabilitative nature
of this component and its present lower level of definition. Price
contingencies are based on the same annual escalation rates as for the
Aoula component, using a rate of 4.0% beyond 1990. Customs and excise
duties and sales tax on purchases of equipment are estimated to amount to
US$23 million including contingencies.
7.10      Financing Plan.  The following table gives a preliminary
financing plan for the Rehabilitation Component:



- 33 -
Rehabilitation - Preliminary Financing Plan
(in million US$)
Sources                               Local      Foreign    Total     z
Lonr-Term Debt
World Bank                            -        40.0        40.0    29.8
GOI                                   -         12.7       12.7     9.4
Local Borrowings                     81.8       -          81.8    60.8
Total Financing Plan               81.8       52.7      134.5   100.0
The US$40 million portion of the proposed Bank loan will essentially fund
the foreign exchange portion of the installed cost estimate of this
component, covering equipment, materials and engineering services,
supplemented by credits from suppliers. GOI funding will essentially be
limited to interest during construction on foreign debt. Assurances have
been obtained from GOI that adequate and timely funds be made available to
complete the Rehabilitation Component. Since It Is assumed for the
financial analysis that the totality of IPFCO's available internal cash
generation would be applied to the Aonla Component, the local costs of the
Rehabilitation Component are to be funded with local borrowings.
C.   Study and Imports Components
7.11      The cost of the study (para 5.18) is estimated at US$300,000,
including US$100,000 for related local currency costs. The foreign
exchange cost estimate is based on an assumed fifteen man-months of
consultancy work, at a cost of US$10,000 per manrmonth, plus a provisiou
for the acquisition of computer hardware and software. The foreign
exchange requirements for this study are proposed to be funded out of the
Bank's Government Loan, aud the local costs by GOI. GOI would be
responsible for implementing the study in line with the appropriate Bank
guidelines for consultancy services. With regard to the Imports Component
(para 5.19) the Bank will provide funding under the proposed Government
Loan for the foreign exchange cost of imported fertilizers and fertilizer
raw materials, up to a value of US$150 million.
D.   Procurement and Disbursement
1.   Procurement
7.12      Aonla.  Equipment financed by the proposed loan will be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) and other procedures con-
sistent with Bank guidelines. Equipment proprietary to the process design
will be procured from specialist suppliers (about US$1.5 million) and small
Items under contracts each with an estimated value of not more than
US$200,000 (about US$4 million), may be procured through limited
international biddlig (LIB) from qualified suppliers from at least -hree



- 34 -
eligible countries. The aggregate of contracts uide: the Bank loan to be
procured under the above special procedures will not exceed US$5.5 million
equivalent or nearly 5% of the Aonla portSon of the Bank loan. For
purposes of bid evaluation under ICB, qualified local suppliers will
receive a margin of preference of 15% or the generally applicable duty for
such goods, whichever Is lower. Indian manufacturers are expected to
supply 32% of the equipment to be procured under ICB procedures or under
those of the OECF loans. Bank approval prior to contract award to be
funded by the Bank will be required on all items with a value in excess of
US$500,000, totalling 702 of the loan amount, which is satisfactory in view
of the experience of the borrower, workload on project staff and the
post-review of all contracts. Equity contributions and GOI and other loan
funds stipulated in the financing plan will be used to cover (i) the cost
of engineering and erection services, (it) civil works, (Mi) township,
(iv) equipment for the Aonla component not financed by the Bank loan, and
(v) interest during construction.
7.13      IFFCO has developed and reviewed with the Bank a list of critical
equipment and items with long delivery times. Because of the early start
on the Aonla project, the good progress made so far and the need for early
procurement activity on critical and long delivery equipment, IFFCO has
sought the Bank's consent to provide retroactive financing for the list of
items considered, in order to maintain the planned pace of implementation.
IFFCO has been advised that the items are suitable for such an arrangement,
subject to a ceiling of 10% of that portion of the Bank's loan which is
destined to the Aonla Component, although IFPCO must bear the risk of
proceeding on this assumption if the Bank chooses not to agree to such
retroactive financing. Since IFPCO's procurement procedures and bidding
documents are acceptable to the Bank, it is recommended that the Bank
permit retroactive financing of agreed eligible items of equipment for
payment due and made after July 31, 1985.6/
7.14      It is also recommended that the Bank provide about US$5.5 million
for procurement of proprietary and small items and about US$3.5 million for
specialist erection and commissioning services supplied by vendors, all
under LIB procedures. For a number of Items of low value to be funded from
sources other than the Bank, only local suppliers are expected to bid under
IFFCO's local competitive bidding procedures (Project File Ref. J).
7.15      The allocation of US$112 million of the proposed IFFCO Loan for
the Aonla component is summarized as follows:
6/   By April 1986, IPFCO had expended an amount of US$5 million for the
supply of goods for procurement under the proposed loan.



- 35 -
-Anla - Allocation of Bgank Loan
Category                US$ million         Disbursement for
Equipment, Materials and                      100% of foreign expenditures,
Spare Parts, (lucluding Supply     85.0      100X of local expenditures
and Erection Contracts)             -         (ex-factory cost). and 70X of
other local expenditures.
Technical Services                 12.0       1OOZ.
Unallocated                        IS.0 a/
Total                   112.0
a/  No allocation has been made for the Front-end Fee, currently waived by
the Bank.
7.16      Apart from the work of piling which was awarded early and let to
three Indian firms while IFFCO was uncertain of its financing sources,
erection and civil works contracts are not likely to attract interest from
international bidders. As has been seen in the case of Hazira and other
Indian fertilizer projects, the individual contracts will likely not exceed
a value of US$5 million equivalent. The policy of awarding such size
contracts locally is considered to provide the most economical means for
execution of the Project and will allow IFFCO to efficiently control work
performance.
7.17      Rehabilitation and Other Components.  The procurement packages
for the Rehabilitation Component will generally be of relatively low value
and a significant proportion are likely to be of a proprietary nature. Of
the proposed US$40 million of Bank financing for this component, the items
which will be suitable for procurement under ICB are expected to have a
value of about US$30 million, with about 50% of this amount relatiug to
tenders won by local suppliers.  The rest of the loan, covering equipment,
materials and services totalling about US$10 million, will include
proprietary items (about US$3.5 million) and small value items (about
US$4.5 million) which can be procured under LIB procedures. The component
will have only limited foundation, structural aud construction requirements
(about US$16.5 million) and those can be carried out by the respective
plant maintenance staffs with the appropriate use of local subcontractors.
Engineering services (about US$2 million of Bank financing) will be
procured under LIB from firms supplying th; particular process and
equipment designs and working in close cooperation with the IFFCO project
management teams, that were either the original process consultants for the
existing plants, or that offer the specific process designs required for
the proposed plant modifications.
7.18      The allocation of the rehabilitation component portion of the
proposed IFFCO loan will be as follows:



-  36  -
Rehabilitation - Allocation of Bank Loan
Category                USS million        Disbursement for
Equipment, NfateriaIs & Spare         29.0      1001 of foreign expenditures,
Parts (including Supply and                     100l   of local expenditures
Erection Contracts)                             (ex-factory) and 701 of other
local expenditures
Technical Services                     2.0         100%
Unallocated                            9.0
Total
Regarding the Imports component, materials financed by the Bank under the
Government Loan will be procured under ICB procedures.  Bank approval prior
to contract award will be required on all purchases with a value In excess
of US$2 million. Such approval will also be required for the first five
purchases, regardless of amount.
7.19      General. The procurement arrangements for the Aonla,
Rehabilitation, Imports and Study components are summarized on the
following page:



- 37 -
Procurement Methods al
(US$ million)
IGB    LIB      LCB     Other    N.A.    Total
Equipment & Materials       251.5  150.9b    48.1                -     450.5
(242.5) (13.5w     -        -         -    (256.0)
License, Engineering &        -     32.9/    8.9        -        -      41.8
Consultaacy Services       -    (13.5)    (0.2)      -         -     (13.7)
Project Management &
Insurance                   -      -        -        20.5      -      20.5
Land & Devel., Civil         17.2    -       56.6       -        -      73.8
Works                     (17.2)   -        -         -        -     (17.2)
Erection & Commissioning      -      4.4d/   37.3       -        -      41.7
-     (3.51     -         -        -      (3.5)
Township & Infrastructure    0.9    -        30.9       -        -      31.8
(0.9)   -                 -         -      (0.9)
Local Handling               12.8    -        4.3       -        -       17.1
(10.9)   -        -        -               (10.9)
Excise Duties & Taxes         -      -        -         -       38.4    38.4
Total Installed Cost    282.4  188.2    186.1       20.5     38.4   715.6
(271.5) (30.5)    (0.2)     -         -    (302.2)
8/   Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed by the Bank.
b/   Includes US$126.2 million equivalent of financing from OECF and
US$10.2 million equivalent of other bilateral financing for goods to
be supplied from Japan, India and certain other countries.
c/   Includes US$18.9 million equivalent of bilateral financing for work
by the foreign project consultants.
d/   Includes US$0.6 million equivalent of financing from OECF.
2.   Disbursement
7.20      It is anticipated that the total amount of the proposed Bank loan
will be disbursed by December 31, 1991; the disbursement schedule for the
Aonla and Rehabilitation Components is provided in Annex 7-3. The schedule
generally reflects past experience with similar Bank-financed fertilizer
and chemical industry projects, as reflected In the standard disbursement
profile. It is, however, possible that the project will be implemented
more efficiently and with fewer delays; as stated in para. 6.03, the
implementation period may be reduced from six to four years. This would
result in a slight reduction in financiug requirements, mainly on account
of interest, reducing the needed provision of funds by GOI accordingly.
Disbursement of the IPFCO Loan for Aonla would then be completed by



- 38 -
mid-1989. While costs would be incurred earlier, the flow of benefits
would also begini more quickly, so that the financial rate of return would
increase from 11.8% to 14.3% (para. 8.08), and the economic return, from
17.1% to 19.2% (para. 9.05). Applications for payment will be allowed
under statements of expenditure for all paymeats relating to coutracts with
a value below US$500,000. The relevant supporting documentationt will be
retained by IFFOO for subsequent review as may be required by the Bank.
The Government Loan is anticipated to be fully disbursed by FY1988.
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
8.01      The finanicial projections for the Project are carried out in
current rupees; financial returus are calculated in constant 1985 prices.
Annexes 8-1 to 8-4 describe the key assumptions used in the financial
analysis and show projected financial statements for the Aonla project, and
for IFFCO as a whole, without and with the Project (Aonla and
Rehabilitation Components). The principal assumptions are as follows:
8.02      Revenues. It is assumed in the base-case analysis that the Aonla
plant will start commercial production in January 1990, 63 months after the
commencement of basic engineering in October 1984 (para 6.02). Projected
urea ex-factory prices have been calculated according to the "retention
price" formula. As explained in paras 2.16-2.20 and further elaborated in
Annex 8-2, the formula sets the price at levels needed to enable producers,
operating efficiently at 80% of capacity, to generate sufficient cash to
cover production costs and obtain a 12% after tax return on capital
employed. The urea retention price for Aonla is thus projected at Rs
5,339/ton for 1989/90 in current terms, corresponding to Rs 3,930/ton
(US$302/ton) in 1985 terms. The ten-year average urea retentiou price in
constant terms will be below the economic value of urea when using present
international price projections (para 2.20).
8.03      With regard to the Rehabilitation Component, its benefits consist
largely of increasing the reliability and extending the operability of
existing facilities, strengthening safety and pollution control arrange-
ments, and improving energy efficiency. Although certain cost savings
will be achieved by the proposed measures, these would result in a reduc-
tion of plant retention prices so that in the longer-term they would have
no effect on IFFCO's income level. Therefore, while all capital
expenditures of the Rehabilitation Component are fully reflected in IFFCO's
financial projections, the Company's revenues and costs are conservatively
assumed to remain unaffected by the rehabilitation weasures.
8.04      Operating Costs.  The following table summarizes the costs per
ton of ammonia and urea for the Aonla project; greater details are provided
in the Attachment to Annex 8-1. The project is energy and capital
intensive: natural gas represents 52% of the total production cost of urea
(including gas consumption used for intermediate ammonia production),
followed by depreciation cost which accounts for 24% of the total. At the
time of appraisal, the price for natural gas for feedstock use was



- 39 -
estimated at Re 1,652 per thousand Ncm (equivalent to US$3.70 per million
BTU). This price is based on the local price of naphtha and Its calorific
value, in line with G0o8 estabilshed pricing formula for natural gas.
Similarly, the estimated natural gas price for utility use of Rs 1,292 per
thousand Ncm (or US$2.88 per million BTU) is based on the local price of
fuel oil at the time of appraissl. Should gas prices be increased, the
impact on TYFOO's finances would be liited since such increases would be
recovered through increases in the retention price.
Aez4e - Dh  atins Cost SLUiM
(at 95Z capacity utilization, per ton of product)a/
Ammonia                   Urea b/
Rs   USS  X        _       Us$_-_
Natural gas--feedstock  1,655   127.3    57.4          -      -
Gas--utilities              50     3.8     1.7       297     22.8     12.0
Intermediate a_onia c/       -     -       -       1,685    129.6     67.9
(996)   (76.6)   (40.1)
Power                       26     2.0     0.9        17      1.3      0.7
Water                        2     0.2     0.1         1      0.1      0.0
Chemicals                   64     4.9     2.2         7      0.5      0.3
Bags                         -     -       -         100      7.7      4.0
Labor                       43     3.3     1.5        46      3.5       1.9
Repair & Maintenance       109     8.4     3.8        35      2.7       1.4
Insurance                   36     2.8     1.2        11      0.8      0.4
Depreciation               896    68.9    31.2       284     21.8     11.4
Total        2,881   221.6   100.0    2,483    190.8    100.0
a/    In 1985 prices.
hi   One ton of urea requires  J58S ton of ammonia.
ci   Numbers in parentheses indMcate natural gas portion of intermediate
ammonia cost.
A.   Financial ProJections
8.05      Aonla.  The followdig table sumaritzes t;ue financial projectious
of the Aonla project, as detailed in Annex 8-3, showing that sales revenues
would reach Rs 4,267 million in 1992/93, the first full year duriug which
the plant is expected to operate at a 95Z capacity utilization. Operating
income would amount to Rs 1,786 million, fully sufficient to cover interest
costs. As a result of the tax benefits described in Annex 8-1, taxes would



- 40 -
be postponed until 1994/95.  The resulting projected initial net cash
generation would -over Aonla's incremental working capital requirementts
beginning in the second year of capacity build-up. The profit break-even
point would remain around 45-50% of capacity beginning in the third year of
operation. The debt service coverage ratio would remain above 2.0 and the
current ratio above 1.5, while the debt/equity ratio would gradually
decrease from 59/41 in 1989/90. The financial structure and liquidity
position of the Aonla project is thus projected to be satisfactory.
Surv of Ala Fm             Pro
(in mLsflto of currest rupee, uimls othezase wtnd)
Fiscal Year Endb          199 a,  1991      1992    1993      1994    1995
capcity Utlltzaln bb/ (%)      65.0    72.5    87.5    95.0    95.0    95.0
Amvla sales ('000 tpy)            7      15      18       20       20       20
Urea sal  ('000 tpy)            236     526     635      690      690      690
Urea rtention prie (Rs/too)    5,339   6,097    6,072    6,032    6,038    6,049
Sales revemm                  1,292   3,292    3,957    4,267    4,272    4,279
Variable productico ast         552   1,287    1,527    1,645    1,711    1,779
Fixed proUctIon, st             384    781      789      798      807      816
Total pro&uti2 n act           935   2,068    2,317    2,443    2,518    2,596
Oprtirg iccm                    346   1,197    1,607    1,786    1,714    1,643
interest                       290      616     571      507      444      380
Net Inacae before t    (lBr)    55      581    1,036    1,279    1,270    1,262
Net Inc    after tms   (IA)     55      581    1,036    1,279    1,270    1,262
Internal cash genwration        343   1,155    1,611    1,854    1,845    1,837
Net fx  assaets               6,819   6,275    5,701    5,126    4,551    3,977
Total equity                  3,004   3,588    4,447    5,549    6,643    7,728
long-tenm debt                4,275   3,849    3,3%     2,943    2,490    2,038
Debt service                    290     843    1,023     960      897      833
Ratios
IBr/sales (2)                   4.3    17.6    26.2    30.0      29.7    29.5
TAT/salea (%)                   4.3    17.6    26.2    30.0    29.7    29.5
Profit break-eve (2)           60.1    51.2    49.7    48.0      47.1    46.2
Debt service cverae ratlD       2.2     2.1     2.1      2.5      2.6      2.7
current ratio                   1.5    1.8      2.1      2.3      2.3      2.3
Debt/equity ratio             59/41   52/48    43/57    35/65    27/73    21/79
a/ 6     I only.
Adjustei to fiscal yea (July-Jme).



_ 41 
8.06       IFF¢O.  The following table summarizes the financial projections
of IFFCO consolidated with the Aonla and Rehabilitation components of the
Project and its financing plan (Chapter VII), as shown in greater detail in
Annex 8-4. As capacity utilization of IFFCO's existing plants has been
historically high and is expected to continue to be so, the Company should
continue to have a substantial cash-flow and adequate returns. As
commented in Chapter IV, IFFCO will provide US$40.0 milliou for the Project
while also implementing some recurring investments and a aw soda ash
project (requiring a total of US$80 million). IFFCO is expected to remain
financially sound. This is reflected in a projected minimum current ratio
of 1.5, a minimum debt service coverage-of 1.5 and a maximum debt-equity
ratio of 49/51.
MMO Thnwactl Projectios, 1Sth the Project
(in millVzs of cirret rupees, swept for ratios)
Actual
l: Cal Yeer E¢dig         1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   13
Sales revhmes:           5,743  5,911  6,827  7,159  7,712  9,410 11,776 13,267 13,795
ofwit1Aa0Oqnit   -                 -      -      -      -  1,292  3,292  3,957  4,267
Net Tne   after tns       362    193    314   269    338    283    783  1,415  1,396
ntetrnal cash g.ielm       671    508    639    536    614   890  1,675  2,274  2,290
Captal ea dituresa:        244  1,018  1,1(0D  2,585  3,010  1,646    433    72    48
of which tX Ama
iutxit                 164   851    864  2,278  2,197    753    31        -      -
of which the     lat
*oqxx~it                  -      -     65    134   481    691    354    24        -
Arm,1ated Surplb  cash      -      -      32    58    73   487    909  1,804  2,926
Net fired assets         2,150  2,853  3,627  5,945  8,679  9,720  9,260  8,473  7,627
Tntal eqaity             3,512  3,980  4,487  5,687  6,359  6,992  7,739  8,939 10,115
TAM-term debt              828  1,333  1,909  3,212  5,454  6,727  6,467  6,095  5,343
Ratios
Debt servie cerWe ratio    2.1   1.6   2.0   1.8    2.2   2.1    1.8    1.5    2.0
Oirrent ratio               1.6   1.5   -1.6   1.7   1.7   1.8   2.0   2.4    2.3
Debt/equity ratio          19t81 25/75  30/70  36/64  46/54 49/51  46/54  41/59   35/65
B.   Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analykg           
8.07      Annex 8-5 provides detailed financial cost and benefit streams
for the financial rate of return (FRR) calculation for the Aonla
Component; the following table summarizes results of sensitivity tests and
a switching value analysis. Regarding the Rehabilitation-Component, the
analysis was limited to returns in economic terms (Chapter IX):



- 42 -
Aonla - Financial R;te of Return
(in constant terms, before tax)
1. Base Case (63-months Implementation Period)               11.8%
2. Sensitivity Test*
Project Implementation Period of
48 Months                                                   14.31
Gas Prices l:  Up 101                                        10.4%
Down 10X                                    13.12
Capital Costs:  Up 10                                       10.2X
Down 10%                                    13.5Z
Attainable Capacity Utilization Rate
Down by 101 (to 85%)                                        10.2Z
Delay of Operation Start-up by 1 Year                        11.2%
3.   Sitching Value Analyi  a
(nor-cumulative)
FIRR t                11.81 vase 9g.)          5X               0%
Gas Price (Rs/lOOO H3) a/
-  for feedstock                 1,652               2,362            2,742
-  for utilities                 1,292               1,848            2,145
Index                           10                  143              166
Capital Costs (Excluding
Working Capital) (Re million)      5,543               8.592           11,917
Index                           100                155               215
Capacity Utilization Rate (X)         95                 63               48
index                           100                66                 I
a/   Sensitivity and switching value testa were made only for changes in
gas prices but not taking into account the effect on sales prices
under the retention price formula.
8.08      Aonla's base case FRR, in constant 1985 terms and before taxes,
Is estimated at 11.8X. This is lower than the 17.1% base case economic
rate of return (para 9.04), primarily because (i) urea retention prices are
projected to be lover than economic values, (ii) financial gas costs are
assumed to remain at telatively high levels irrespective of international
energy price prospects, and (iii) the effect of the standard conversion
factor of 0.8 applied to local costs for arriving at economic capital
costs. The relatively low base-case FRR is also due to the conservative
assumption used for the project implementation period, i.e., 63 months from
the beginning of basic engineering to commercial start-up. As described in
para 6.02, the mission considers a 48-moth implementation period to be
reasonable and attainable. A sensitivity test using this assumption shows



- 43 -
that the FRR for the Aonla component would increase to 14.3%. The
switching value analysis indicates that for the FRR to decline to 5%,
either gas prices have to increase by 43%; or capital costs have to go up
by 55%; or the attainable capacity utilization rate has to decline from 95%
to 63%. It is considered unlikely, however, that gas and capital costs
will exceed the base case levels to such an extent, without being reflected
in modifications in the retention price so that financial returns would
eventually be assured, provided that the plant capacity utilization rate is.
kept at 80% or higher. In light of IFFCO's historical good operating
performance and the location of the Aonla plant close to India's principal
fertilizer markets, the risk of underutilization of the Aonla capacities is
considered low.
C.   Financial Covenants and Reporting Requirements
8.09      Assurances have beer obtained from IFFCO that it follow prudent
financial practices, and will (i) maintain at all times a long-term
debt/equity ratio not exceee ag 60/40; (ii) after completion of the
Project, maintain at all times a current ratio of at least 1.2; (iii) not
incur additional debt in any fiscal year, if by so doing the projected debt
service coverage ratio would fall below 1.3; and (iv) not prepay debt or
declare any dividends, if such action would result in the current ratio
falling below 1.4. IFFCO will submit, in a form satisfactory to the Bank,
(a) its annual audited financial reports within nine months from the end of
each fiscal year, (b) within one week of every month-end, construction
progress reports through to commissioning of all components, and (c) not
later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, quarterly financial
statements for IFFCO. Finally, IFFCO will prepare and submit to the Bank
within four months after Project completion, a completion report dealing
with its experience during Project implementation and initial operations,
and a reassessment of its costs and benefits. GOI will submit annual
audited financial reports regarding implementation of the study and import
components (para 5.18).
D. Risks
8.10      The Project is not expected to face any major technical or mana-
gerial risks since the technologies to be used in the various components
are commercially proven and the ammonia and urea units of the Aonla project
are of similar design to those of the completed Thal and HP projects. Most
of IFFCO's project team members were involved in implementing the Hazira as
well as other fertilizer projects in India and are experienced in project
management, plant erection and start-up.
8.11      The timely availability of adequate gas supply to Aonla
constitutes a potential risk. While gas production estimates based on
ONGC's latest development plans are adequate (Annex 5-3), it is essential
that ONGC's and GAIL's plans and facilities are implemented in a timely
manner to ensure that the Aonla plant can start-up without delay when
ready. In addition, the HRU pipeline to Aonla must be completed before
start-up of the plant. As described in para 5.12, while the overall
pipeline project plan has been established, the exact timing of its



- 44 -
completion remains to be confirmed after the completion of pipeline
construction arrangements. As IFFCO is one of the best managed fertilizer
companies in the country and has a sufficient pool of capable matnagers, the
operational management of the Project does not constitute an undue risk.
IX.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.  Economic Costs and Benefits
9.01      Annex 9-1 describes the principal assumptions used in the
economic analysis of the Aonla Coiponent. In summary, economic costs and
benefits for tradeable items have been valued at international border
prices, while for non-tradeable items, appropriate domestic prices have
been used. All prices are expressed in constant 1985 US dollar terms. The
economic capital cost of the Project was derived by deducting taxes on
equipment and other items from the financial capital cost. For local
currency costs, a standard couversion factor of 0.8 was used, in effect
applying a 25% premium to the prevailing exchange rate. The cost of gas
pipelines is not included since the pipeline network will be built for a
number of different users, and its opportunity cost to the Project should
therefore be minimal.  It is assumed that the pipeline cost will be
recovered through a)propriate gas pricing.
9.02     The economic value of production is primarily determined by
estimates of the future international price of urea. This FOB price is
assumed to increase (in constant terms) from the actual US$162/ton (FOB,
bagged) incurred by Indian fertilizer imports in 1984/85 to US$190/ton in
1990/91 and to US$206/ton in 1995/96 (para 2.19). This projection reflects
the Bank's assessment of the future global demand and supply of nitrogen
which is expected to be essentially in balance in the 1990s, as well as
prospects for the future energy situation. Adding to the FOB price the
cost of sea freight to India, port handling charges and losses, and inland
transportation to UP warehouses, the economic cost of urea is estimated at
US$270/ton for 1990191 and US$286/ton for 1995/96.
9.03     Natural gas is the single biggest cost item, accounting for 80% of
the total economic production costs. As described in Annex 9-1, its econo-
mic value is assumed to be its fuel oil equivalent value. Based on the
Bank's projection of crude oil prices, the fuel oil equivalent value of
natural gas to be used by the Aonla plant was estimated at US$2.80 per
million BTU in 1990/91 and US$3.80 in 1995/96.
B.  Economic Rates of Return
9.04     Aonla.  The base case economic rate of return (ERR) of the Aonla
project assuming a 63-month implementation period, is calculated at 17.1?.
Annex 9-2 gives the corresponding economic cost and benefit streams, and
the table on the following page summarizes the results of sensitivity tests
and a switching value analysis.



- 45 -
9.05     The table indicates that the ERR remains adequate, even if either
international urea prices fall, or capital costs go up by 20%, or the
attaiuable capacity utilization rate declines to 85%, or operation start-up
is delayed by 1 year. A reduction in the natural gas cost, to
US$2.40/million BTU, which would correspond to a crude price of US$13/bbl,
FOB, would result in an improvement of the Aonla component's economics by
3.0% to 20.1%. If such a reduction were to be accompanied by a US$30/ton
reduction in the economic value of urea, the Aonla component's ERR would be
17.02. The switching value analysis of energy and urea prices furthermore
indicates that in order for the ERR to decline to 10S, either the crude oil
price has-to go up to US$32.5/ton (and the value of the gas to
US$5.2/million BTU) without a parallel change in urea prices, or the urea
POB price has to remain at US$143/ton without a decrease in energy
Aonla - Economic Rate of Return
(in 1985 prices)
1.  Base Case                                                17.1%
2.   Sensitivity Tests
Implementation period of 48 months (instead of 63 months)   19.2%
Urea equilibrium prices lower than projected by US$30/ton   13.6%
Gas cost down to US$2.40/million BTU a/                      20.1%
Capital Costs: Up 20%                                        14.2%
Down 20%                                     20.9%
Capacity Utilization Rate Down by 10% to 85%                 15.6%
Delay of Operation Start-up by 1 Year                        14.81
3.  Switching Value Analysis of Energy and Urea Prices
(non-cumulative)
Crude Oil          Gas b/
(FOB. US$/bbl)  (US$/millIon BTU)        Urea (Bagged FOB. US/ton)
1990/ 1995/     1990/  1995/       1990/91:  190      143     90
91    96        91     96        1995/96:  206      143     90
ERR (%)
16.2  22.6      2.8    3.8                   E  c/  10.0    0.0
32.5  32.5      5.2    5.2                  10.0      0.0   C-)
45.7  45.7      7.2    7.2                  0.0      (-)    (-)
a/ Equivalent to US$13/bbl of crude oil (FOB) and to US$74/ton of fuel
oil (FOB).
b/ Fuel oil equivalent, delivered to Aonla.
£' Base case.



- 46 -
prices. The likelihood of the crude oil price going up to such an extent,
or of the urea price to remain at US$143/ton during the entire project
life, is cousidered slim. Projections for international urea prices have
been discussed in paras 2.18 and 2.19. This leads to the conclusion that
the Aonla project should be not ouly economically viable but fairly
tolerant of unfavorable conditions*
9.06     Rehabilitation.  The benefits of the Rehabilitation Component are
both tangible and intangible (Annex 5-2). Tangible benefits include those
resulting from efficiency improvements and energy saving Investments in the
existing plants, intangible benefits include expected increases in reliabi-
lity and safety of various pieces of equipment to.be replaced or reno-
vated. As shown in Annex 9-3, all rehabilitation subcomponents whose bene-
fits are quantifiable were found to have economic rates of return ranging
from 16% to over 40%; details of the economic analysis of each subcomponent
are contained in ProJect File Ref. K. Since operations at the existing
plants are currently economic, i.e., marginal economic production costs are
lower than equilibrium fertilizer prices, the rehabilitation measures,
designed to improve existing operations, are economically meritorious.
C.   Other Benefits
9.07     Besides the Project's general economic desirability as reflected
by the above rates of return, there are other economic benefits. The local
engineering firms as well as IFFCO engineering staff will gain valuable
experience through involvement in the implementation of the Project.   At
the peak of construction activities, the Aonla component alone is expected
to provide employment to more than 3,000 persons. The Aonla Component will
also have significant backward linkages with the industrial sector,
creating additional jobs and need for investments there. Local erection
and civil work contracts will have a positive impact on the local economy.
Installation of a large industrial complex in an otherwise entirely
agricultural area will help attract small and medium scale service
industries needed to provide maintenance and other services for the
complex.
X. AGREEMENTS
10.01     The following principal assurances and agreements have been
obtained:
a. from the Government that it will:
(i) implement a program of initiatives to improve the
fertilizer sector (para 2.03);
(ii) make natural gas available for the Aonla plant no later
than July 31, 1987 (para 5.12);



- 47 -
(iii)  complete before June 30, 1987 the study on performance
evaluation and control, according to terms of reference
to be agreed with the Bank by June 30, 1986
(para 5.18); and
(iv) provide IFFCO with equity and loan funds totalling
US$267.8 million equivalent, and make available to
IFFCO any additional funds required to cover any short-
fall in the Aonla Component financing plan on terms
satisfactory to the Bank (paras 7.08 and 7.10);
b.  from IFFC0 that it will:
(i) conclude and submit to the Bank by June 30, 1987, an
agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank for the timely and adequate supply of gas (para
5.13);
(ii) execute and operate the Project with due regard to
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank (para
5.17)1;
(iii) during implementation of the Aonla Component, limit
capital expenditures other than for the Project to an
aggregate of US$80 million and prepay no debt
(para 7.08); and
(iv)   comply with the financial covenants and reporting
requirements described in para 8.09.
10.02     With the above agreements, the Project is suitable for Bank loans
totalling US$302.2 million for the Cooperative Fertilizer Industry
Project.  The proposed loans would be for 15 years, including 5 years of
grace at the Bank's applicable variable interest rate.
10.03     Retroactive financing of up to US$11.2 million is recommended
under the loan for eligible expenditures for engineering services and
advance payments for procurement of long delivery items for the Aonla
project incurred after July 31, 1985 (para 7.13). Furthermore, it is
recommended that the Bank loan provide US$5.5 million for procurement of
proprietary and small items and US$3.5 million for specialist erection and
commissioning services supplied by vendors under LIB procedures (para
7.14).
Industry Department



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Initiatives in the Fertilizer Sector
1.        In connection with the Cooperative Fertilizer Industry Project,
GOI agrees to aim at achieving a series of performance targets and to take
a number of measures spelled out below.
Performance Targets
2.        Plant capacity utilization:  A gradual increase in the average
capacity utilization and production of existing nitrogen fertilizer plants
from their present levels, both in the aggregate, as well as for the
public sector plants alone, as shown in the following table:
Targets for Capacity Utilization and Production of
Existlig Nitrogen Fertilizer Plants
Actual                  Targets
1984/85   85/86  86/87 87/88  88/89  89
Plant -Caacity (2)
All India                      74       75      76     78     80     82
Public Sector                  60       61     63      65     69     73
Fertilizer Production
(million nutrient tons)
All India                     3.8       3Md    3.9      4.0    4.1    4.2
Public Sector                 1.8       1.8    1.9      2.0    2.1    2.2
GOI will provide the Bank, by June 1986, with plant-by-plant capacity
utilization and production data for 1984185.  Similar data will be
provided to the Bani: annually through completion of the project by June
following the end of each fiscal year.
3.        Feedstock and Energy Consumption:  Reduction of the overall
average feedstock and energy consumption per unit of output, as follows
(in approximate million kcal per ton of ammonia):



- 49 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 6
Actual          Targets
19G        87188    89/90
Natural Gas         10.0          9.5       9*0
Fuel Oil             16.0        15.0      14.0
Naphtha             12.0         11.0      10.5
Coal                 18.0        18.0       15.0 a/
a/  Assuming completion of the coal-based plants rehabilitation.
&OI will provide the Bank, by June 1986, with plant-by-plant consumption
data for 1984/85.  Similar data will be provided to the Bank annually
until the completion of the project by June following the end of each
fiscal year.
4.         Miltribution Efficiency:  Steps are being taken by GOI to
further gradually reduce the average haulage distance of fertilizers from
presently about 900 km to at most 800 km by 1990 and a 0l real reduction
over the same time of the average fertilizer unit transportation and
related costs, as reflected in the Government's 'equated freight" payments
to producers, which in 1984/85 amounted to an average of Re 173 per ton of
urea. In addition, despatch delays and production stoppages at principal
plants resulting from or necessitated by lack of railroad haulage
capability, is expected to be eliminated by 1989.
5.        Ex-Pactori Pricing:  The review of the retention price system
just completed has evaluated various options, recommending a series of
actions with a view to (a) improving efficiency in existing facilities;
(b) building new capacities for meeting the growing demand for
fertilizers; and (c) providing adequate incentives through an appropriate
pricing mechanism in order to develop the sector to its full potential.
The Government of India intends to modify and rationalize the existing
retention price system to generate adequate signals to plant managements
to take appropriate investment and operating decisions that would save
energy and reduce costs. The LTFP statement recognizes the need to
contain subsidies within a certain level in terms of GDP, recognizing also
the necessity to ensure that the rate of growth on this account is lower
than the rate of growth of GDP. Various steps have been recomended in
this regard by the Study. Based on the above considerations, GOI would
endeavour to keep the existing retention price constant in real terms, at
present levels, pending decisions on, and implementation of, the
recommendations of the Committee. The Indian delegation informed that the
major recommendations of the Committee are (a) for the existing plants:
the retention price for urea would be fixed based on grouping for direct
costs, relating to feed-stock and individual capital-related costs; and
(b) for new gas-based plants: a system of tariff-adjusted import parity
prices based on long range average prices of sample of countries. GOI
intends to review the recommendations by September 1986, and thereafter
implement an action plan with monitorable targets in regard to ex-factory
pricing. In this process, GOI proposes to take into consideration the
Bank's views on the evolution of an appropriate pricing system for
promating efficiency and reducing the subsidy burden.



- so -
ANNEX 2-l
Page   of 6
6.        Farmgate Prices:  GOI has-recognized tb't budgetary implications
of maintaining farugate fertilizer prices at present levels. The ongoing
study on farmgate prices Is expected to be completed by the end of 1986
and will address the major issues surrounding the overall fertilizer
subsidy.  In this process, GOI proposes to take the Bank's views into
account.
Measures Current,ly Under Consideration or Being Taken
7.        In order, Inter alia, to achieve the above targets, a number of
measures, as summarized below, will be or are being taken.
(i)  Production Efficiencies
8.        The following principal actions are envisaged to improve the
efficiency and capacity utilization of the public sector plants now
performing unsatisfactorily:
(a) Technical and Energy Surve"s and Subsequent Rehabilitation
of the Barauni, Namrup and Durgapur Plants. Based on
ongoing reviews of their performance and identification of
defective equipment, the companies will carry out
modifications or replacements. Feasibility studies to this
effect are to be initiated by mid-1986. On completion of
this work, the Government will assess the Investment
requirements. These studies will also evaluate the
economics of continuing operation of the plants after
carrying out any needed physical and financial
restructuring.
(b)   Energy Audits of Other  .C.. .CF.  PACT and MFL Plants.
In-house audits are under way at RCF and MFL and will be
completed by mid-1986.  Similar studies will be initiated
shortly at FCI and FACT and are expected to be completed by
late 1986. Their conclusions will be discussed with the
Bank.
(c)  Rehabiiitation of the Gorakhpur Plant.  Necessary studies
are under way and the findings are expected to be available
with the Government by mid-May 1986, at which time the
Government will discuss the findings with the Bank and
reach decisions with regard to their implementation by
September 1986.
(d)  R biiitation of the Coal-Based Piants at -Taicher -sand
Ramagundam. The Bank-financed feasibility stutdy has been
completed. The Government will review the findings of the
study with the Bank and teach decisions on actions to be
taken by mid-1986.
(e) Ciosing of the Existing Urea Plant at Na=rup. The Namrup
fertilizer complex is being rehabilitated and expanded.



AN 2-1
Page 4 of 6
Following this rehabilitation, the old Namrup I uret plant,
being replaced under the current Naerup III Project, is
planned to be closed by late 1987.
Closure of Od Udyiogamandal Plante With the expected
commissioning of the caprolactam plant at the saw site by
mid-1988, the existing gypsum-route ammonium sulfate plant
will cease to operate.
(f) Study of' the Economic ViabilUty of Selected Fertilizer
Plants. Following completion of the above-mentioned
studies and audits, the Government will initiate a review,
under terms of reference to be developed in cooperation
with the Bank, of plants selected in view of their high
production costs and/or retention prices to (i) determine
their economic production costs and values; (ii) review
further potential, if any, for decreasing their production,
operating and financial costs; and (iiI) identify and
implement measures for the purpose.
(g)  Perspective Sector Planning.  As part of its perspective
planning for the fertilizer Industry, the Government
constitutes a Working Group prior to each five Year Plan to
review the status of the industry and to formulate the
investment plans for the five-year periode In view of the
importance of the industry, the Government now plans to
carry out a longer period sectoral perspective study
covering the period up to the year 2000 to be utilized by
the Government's Planning Commsssion in its overall
perspective planning work. This review is to develop an
optimal scenario for the structure of the fertilizer
production including aspects of location, feedstock, size
and sequence of new plants, marketing, distribution and
consumption in India, proposed targets to be reached and
strategy of action needed to be adopted. The Study is
proposed to be started by mid-1986 and scheduled for
completion by December 1986. The Government proposes to
consider the Bank's suggestions with regard to this study
and discuss its findings with the Bank.
(ii) Public Sector Management
10.       The procedures applied for the selection, appointment, tenure,
training, incentives and motivation of top managers in the public sector
in general are currently being reviewed by the Government to find ways to
ensure professional decision-moking at the senior management levels, to
increase autonomy and accountability of the managers, and thus to improve
public sector companies' operational performance and efficiency. In this
context, the Governmnt is currently reviewing the recomendations of the
1985 Sengupta Study which focuses on improving the Indian public sector
enterprises in general; it is expected that decisions will be reached in
1986.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 5 of 6
11.       The Fertiliser Department of the Government is in the process of
developing a computerized management information system which is expected
to be operational by mid-1986. The Government intends to work with the
Bank in further refining the system, taking into account international
experience to incorporate elements of periodic evaluation of company
performance, setting up a signalling system pointing to out-of-line
situations, establishing a control over follow-up actions, and also
providing appropriate linkages with top management selection, promotion
and incentives. In this context, the Government and the Bank have agreed
to the provision by the Bank of financing of technical assistance under
the Cooperative Fertilizer Industry Project in the form of consultants
with international experience on the subject.
12.       On behalf of the Government, the Fertilizer Association of India
has carried out and submitted to GOI a study of the manpower requirements
of the fertilizer industry.  The Government intends to discuss with the
Bank by June 1986 the findings of the study, including the training needs
in the public sector fertilizer companies.
13.       Regarding the Government's intentions as to ownership of
fertilizer plants, the delegation has pointed to the size of the
investment program and the needed growth rate, and also notes the
Government's policy in the last two decades of mobilizing financial and
management resources available in all the sectors. As evidence of this
policy, the Government pointed out that of the six large gas-based plants
now under study or construction, five are to be owaed by the private and
cooperative sectors, the only one in the public sector being implemented
by National Fertilizers Ltd. which is a very successful and efficiently
managed company.
(iiI)  M4airiketiing and Distribution
14.       Given the projected growth in fertilizer consumption and the
necessary consumer diversification, the Government has recognized the need
to review its marketing and distribution strategy. In line with the
studies referred to in paragraphs 6 and 8(g), the Ministry of Agriculture
intends to review the projected growth In consumption and production up to
the year 2000 and develop an appropriate strategy of actions to be taken
to ensure the efficient marketing of the increasing volume of
fertilizers. This study will include a review of the changes and
strengthening needed in the distribution system, the appropriateness or
otherwise of continuing the present system of market allocations, the
usefulness of increased competition at the market place to achieve better
services for the farmers, the need for reviewing the distribution margin
to ensure farmers better access to supplies, and the need for increased
institutional support for promotion, crop Insurance and credit supply.
15.       The Government has been aware of the need for measures to
optimize fertilizer transportation and distribution. Initial feasibility
studies focusing on the establishment of a number of nodal railroad points
in northwest India are being prepared. Furthermore, in view of transport
and storage constraints in other parts of India with high consumption



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 6 of 6
intensity, the Covernuent is considering to carry out an all-India
distribution project. A decision on this study will be reached by June
1986, with completion scheduled within 12 months.
Industry Department
June 1986



-54                              ANX 2-2
Page 1 of 3
INDIA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER IDSTRY PROJECT
Sec toral Measures Taken by GOI to luprove
Public Sector Fertilizer Plants
S.-Ifficieest
I. CoUl-ki s    ertillre  Plnt
- Plant review by * Bigh-Level Tecbhical Comsittee bas
been coapleted.
- Impleueatation of the Comsittee's short ters
recommendations has been completed inacluding
installation of a captive power plant at Talcher.
These actions bave resulted in increases in capacity
utilization from 371 to 491 and in esergy savinge.
- Foreign consultants finsaced ander the Guns Project
have been contracted to conduct am end-to-end survey
which is currently in progress.
b. Wa.rug I
- The existing Jasrup I plants other thba the urea plant
are being renovated during the 1985 asnual turnaround.
- The Nanrup I urea plant will be sbut dows, when the
Nasrup III urea plant with the built in additional
capacity is cosmissioned.
- Measures are beiug implemeuted to increase g&a supply
to the Iasrup II plants.
- Captive power station is currently being installed to
provide assured power supply.
c . DarausilDurzanur
- Substantial modifications have been carried out to
isprove performance.
- Captive power plants are being installed to provide
reliable power supply.
d. Sindri
- The Sindri rationalisation plants, which have not been
operating satisfactorily have beea shut down in 1984.
e. xorakkou._
- Renovation measures already impleaeated have increased
capacity utilization from 572 to 63X.
- In view of the age of the plant and its doubtful
economics, studies are in progress - scheduled for
completion in September 19S5. to identify capital
investments for a full rehabilation.



-55-
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 3
f  Other tli.t
- Isplesentation of seasures at NFL plants have resulted
in energy *sving$ of US$5 sillion in 198485.
- Similar energy audit* are uaudr way at RCF, FACT and
NFL plants.
985.L90 Jim mu  P-LU
- The measures proposed to be taken up total an
investment requiresent of about VS1 billion and are
being studied in detail as summarized above for
prepariag investment proposals.
II. )Eanoemet/Ownershin.
a.  e  fa-s-bas*t glggc, Flive of the gas based plants whicb
are being planned for ispleseatation (including the Aoala
Project) will he in the privatelcooperative sectors, if
needed witb financial support of the public sector
finaocial institutions and the Governsmet.
b. Goveranent has adopted well laid out evaluation procedures
for evalusting new project investment proposals with
adequate emphasis on economic and financial soundness.
c. Public sector companies' operations sanagements bave been
given full autonomy and responsibility to draw up and
implesent their own production plan*.
d. Similarly Project managers have been given full autonomy
and responsibility to isplement projects.
e. Public sector company sanagesents are empowered to make
all appointsent upto the Board level and approve all
revenue expenditures. Provided they are reflected in the
company budgets. capital expenditures can also be approved
without Government consulatation upto US$8 million
equivalent.
f. Incentive schemes have been implemented covering the
middle level managers and staff both in the operations and
project implesentation funetions.
g. The study on long-term smapower requireseats - being
carried out by the Fertiliser Association of India at the
request of the Goveranent is soon to be completed. GO!
plans to request PAZ to also develop a long term
sanagement plan as an eztension of tbe above study.
h. A maagemesnt reporting systes is being developed witbin
the Ministry of Cbesicals and Fertilizer* wbich will
Include appropriate signalling system for management
perforsance, evaluation and control.



-56 -                         AMNU 2-2
Page 3 of 3
i. A study by the Sngupta Committee covering tbe entire
public sector woo coopleted in 1985 and its
recomuendations to improve public sector performance-
and possible privatisatiou are uader 01 review.
III. marketinanDistribution                -
a. The delivery points for fertilizers bos been moved from
railbead to block level to improve farmer access to the
product.
b. The distribution margin has been reviewd sad increased
even though further review is now necessary.
c. Nodal points study to optiaise distribution system ia
Wortb West Indi* and reduce distribution costs is in
progress.
IV. PriLStI
a. Several improvewents bove been carried out. tbough witbin
the same overall pricing frasework, mainly to reaove
anoualies whicb existed in the orisinal formula.
b. Isport duty on capital goods needed for new projects has
been waived with a view to reduce the investment
requiresents and consequently the es-factory prices.
c. A Nigh-level Governmeat committee (under the ebairmanship
of Secretary D. S. iangb) has been formed to review the
retention price system in the contest of the need for
increasing budgetary support.
Tndustry Departmet
June 1986



_ 57 -
AlIBI 2-3
INA- COOPWIVBTILI  IMDVSI  PUiC
Capacity and Production of Principal witttta frtilizr Fbnts
1984/65
Nareh 1985  -'       ---P Poduction  -             Capacity
-  Co e idr/Plant        Product       Feedstock   -C aactt    1981J82 1982/83  1983164   1               .tt toatn
A.  Pubic Sector
I.  Verttliter axd Cheaicals Travaneore Ltd. (FACT)
Alvaye - Udyogmndel        AS               N            78.0      37.4      32.8     35.7    51.5         66
aebalaedu - Cochin I       Urea             *.A         152.0     118.8   )         )         107.9        71
Aebalamed - Cochin It      NP/NPK           N            40.0      10.2   3127.7   )134.t    65.6          164
2. Fertilizer Corporation of India (PCX)
Gorakhpur - Utter Pradeak   Urea            N           131.0      73.2      75.1     80.3    82.4          63
SiAdri - biher             AS, Urea         FO          219.0     118.6    131.5    125.9   125.3           57
ineinguode - Andhra Prsdesh Urea            C           228.0      58.9     73.5      75.0    93.4         41
Taicher Ortasa             UreS             C           228.0      45.8      19.S     42.6    55.1         24
3.  Hindustan Ferttlizer C*rporation Ltd. (HFCL)
Narauni - Bihar           lirea             N           152.0      74.2      78.5     60.8    37.7          25
Dlrgapur - West Bengal    - Urea            N-          152.0      60.0      43.2     69.4    57.5          38
Nalrup - aeaS              Urea. AS         MG          197.0     104.9    100.3      81.4    88.2         45
4.  Madras Fertilizer Ltd. (PFL) V
hanali - Taoil Nadu        Urea. NP, NPW    N           176.0     154.0    135.0    113.8   151.4          86
S.  National Fertilizer Ltd. (NPn)
IWtinda - Funjab           Urea             PO          235.0     133.7    150.7    162       143.6        61
Nangal - Punjab            CAN, Urea        FO          232.0     170.4    180.8    188       190.4        82
Penipet -   Yana           Urea             FO          235.0     182.1    168.9    161      157.1         67
6.  Neyveli Lignite Corp. (ILC)
Neyv_li - Tedl Nadu        Urea             FO           70.0      45.2     45.3      55.2    58.8         84
7. Reehtriya Cheeiclas and Ferttliter Ltd. (RCPL)
Troebay - Maharaehtre      Urea, NP. AN     MG, A       317.0     167.3    209.6    277.8   264.8          84
8.  Steel Authority of Indta Ltd.(SAIL)
Rourkela - Orisa           CAN              COC, N      120.0      53.4      10.0     22.9    49.7         41
a etml plants              AS               COG          36.4      16.1      11j0     14.9    20.8         51
Total Public Sector                                   2.998.4   1.624.2  1.599.4  1.700.8  1.801.2         60
A. Prtivate Sector
1.  Coroandel Fertlitzer Ltd. (CFL)
Virag - Andhra Predeeb     Urea, MP. NPK    N            84.0      71.1      63       71.5    73.3         87
2. E1D - Parry (India)
Senore - Tdall Nadu        APS              S            16.0       8.0      7.7       9.2     9.2         57
3.  Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilizer Ltd. (GNVF)
Bharuch - Gujerat          Urea             FO          273.0       2.4    178.2    212.9   212.8          78
4.  Gujarat State Ferttlizer Co. (GSFC)
Baroda - Gujarat           UreS. AS, DAP    NG. N       235.0     200.8    184.4    205.9   211.6          90
5.  Nart Fertiler Ltd. (NCOW)
VaranaL - Uttar Pradeah    AICl             COG          10.0       2.1       1.2      3.5     2.1         21
6.  Indian Exploaswie Ltd. (IBL)
gnpur - Uttar Predeash      rea             N           310.0     202.0    262.9    237.8   286.3          92
7.  Mangalore Chmicala and Fertilizers Ltd. (C!CFL)
hangalore - Karnataka      Ure                           156.0   118.8     97.2    104.2   134.0          86
S.  Punjab National Fertililer.
Maya Nngal - Punjab        Urea             FO           16.0                -         -       2.1         25
9.  Shrtraa Fertilizer Corp. (SFC)
Kota - Rajasthan           Urea             S           152.0     121.1    143.4    136.7   143.7          95
10  Southern Petrocebsical Industriea Corp. (SPIC)
Tuticortn - taml NMduia    Urea. NP, NPI    N           293.0     206.2    278.1    246.5   308.9          105
11. Tate Iron and Steel Co. (TISCO)
Jaabedpur - Bihar          AS               COG           4.0       3.3      3.3       2.9    n.a.        n.a.
12. Zuar£ Agro Chemicals Ltd. (ZACL)
Sen Cole - Goa           Ure                B           187.0     144.1    171.8    140.9   146.1          85
Total Private Sector                                  1,753.6   1,079.9  1,391.2  1,372.0  1,593.9         91
C.  Coonerat£ve Sector
1.  Indian Farmers Ferttlier Cooperative (IFFCO)
landla/Balol - Gujarat    Urea, NP. NW     NW           260.0     255.1    277.1    253.0   321.8          124
Phulpur- Utter Pradeeb   Urea               N           228.0     183.2    166.8    174.2   200.1          88
total Cooperative Sector                                488.0     438.3    443.9    4V.2   521.9           107
Total India                                           5,240.0   3.142.4  3,434.5  3,500.0  3.917.0         74
pf  Reporting pertods from April through March.
oP * FTel Oil; S - Naphthe; C - Coalt US - Natural Gee; A - AJiai; COG - Cdke Own Osa.
f  Oed jointly dith private  ector.
Source: Fertilizer Aaaocatton of India.
industry Depaft



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-1
INDA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Selected Agriculture Statistics. 1952-1981 *1
_A'eraLe Annual Growth Rates
1952       1961         1971        1981     1952-1981    1966-1981    1971-1981
Gross Cropped Area (million ha)           133.2       152.8       165.8       173.3          0.9           0.6           0.4
Net Cropped Area (million ha)             119.4       133.2        140.8      140.3          0.6           0.4          0.2
Area under Multiple Cropping               13,8        19.6        25.0        33.0          2.7           2.2           1.8
(4tllion ha)
Gross Irrtgated Area (utlltqn ha)          23.2        28.0         38.2       49.6          3.0           3.4           3.2
Gross Irrigated Area as Z of               17.4        18.3         23.0       28.6          2.1           2.8           3.3
Gross Cropped Area
Gross Area under HYV                -          -        -           15.4       43.1          _             _            11.4
Gross Area under HYV as S of                -           -            9.3       26.1          -             -            10.9
Gross Cropped Area
Total Fertilizer Consumption               65.6       239.9     2,256.0    5,515.6          16.5          17.0           9.4
('000 tons nutrient)
Fertilizer Consumption (kg) per             0.6         1.9         13.6       31.5         14.6          15.1           8.8
ha of Gross Cropped Area
N.PK Consumption Ratios                7,6:0.9:1   7,3:1.8:1   6,3:2.3:1   5,9:1.9:1         -             -             -
Foodgrain Production (million tons)         52.0        82.0       108.4      129.0          3.2           2.3           1.8
Total Population (million)                 361.0       439.2       548.2      683.8          2.2           2.2           2.2
I/  Most of the data correspond to the years ending March 31.  Consumption data, however, relate to years ending
January 31.
Source: Fertilizer Association of India.
Industry Department
June 1986



PIDIA - COOPATIVI VUTILIZUR IDUSTRY 
atorical C imptio, Produatiam and XIportS of tLtUS, 1952-198S f
(tn '000 tons of  utrient)
_itrogen                             Phosphate                         pottak                     All Nutrient
Year     Conmuaptio    Production   Imports   Copsuaption   Production   Imports   Consumption   Iports   Cocou.tlon  Pkoduettom   Imports
1952153         58            53        44              5            7         -           3             3           6_           60          47
1933/54         89            53        19              8           14         -           S             7          105           67          26
1954/55         95            68        20             15           14         -          it            11          121           82           31
1955/56        107            77        53             13           12         -          10            10          131           89          63
1956/57        123            79        57             16           17         -          15            13          154          106          72
1957/58        149            81       110             22           26         -          13            13          184          107          123
1958/59        172            81        97             29           31         -          22            22          224          112          119
1959/60        229            84       142             54           St         4          21            33          305          135         179
1960/61        212           112       399             53           54         -          29            20          294          166         419
1961/62        230           154       307             60           6S         -          28            75          338          219         382
1962/63        333           194       244            83            88        10          36            41         432           282         295
1963/64        377           219       228            116          io8        13          50            40          S4           327         281
1964/65        555           243       232            149          131        12          69            57          773          374         301
1965/66        575           238       326            132          119        14          77            73          765          357         413
1966/67        738           309       632            248          146       148         114           118        1,101          455         896
1967/68      1,034           402       867            335          207       349         170           270        1,539          609       1,486
1968/69      1,209           563       844            382          213       138         170           213        1,761          776       1,195
1969/70      1,356           730       667            416          224        94         210           120        1,962          954         681
1970/71      1,479           832       477            S4l          228        32         236           120        2.256        1,060         629
1971/72      1,798           949       481            558          290       248         300           268       2,657         1,239         997
1972/73      1,839         1,054       665            582          330       204         347           325        2,768.       1,364        1,194
1973/74      1,829         1,050       659            650          324       213         360           370       -2,839        1,374        1,242
1974/75      1,766         1,186       884            471          331       286         336           437       2,573         1,517       1,607
1975/76      2,149         1,535       996           467           320       361         278           278        2,894        1,853       1,635
1976/77      2,457         1,857       750           635           478        23         319           278       3,411         2,335       1,0St
1971/78      2,913         2,000       758            867          670       164         506           599       4,286         2,670       1,521
1978/79      3,419         2,169     1,228         '1,106          776       243         592           517        5,117        2,945       1.98
1979/80      3,498         2,226     1,295          1,151          763       237         606           473       5,255         2,989       2,005
1980/81      3,678         2,164     1,510          1,214          842       452         624           797        5,516        3,006       2,759
1981/82      4,069         3,143     1,055          1,322          95O       343         676           644       6,067         4,093       2,042
1982/83      4,263         3,434       425          1,420          984        65         735           644        6,418        4,418        1,133
1983/84      5,236         3,487       6S6         1,757         1,057       143         799           556        7,792        4,544       1,355
1984/85      3,486         3 917       n.a.         1,886        1,318       n.ae        839           n.a.      8,211         5,235         u.s.
I/ Statistical consumption years run from February I to January 31. Statistical production years run from April I to march 31. Fligures represent
offtake from plants and importers.
Sources The Fertilixer Association of India.
Industry Department
June 1986



INDIA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Projected Grovth of Nitrogen Fertilizer Demand and Production
(in million tons of nutrient)
Demand                                                    Supp1Y                   Gy     E
RelItstic Growth !I            Lower Crowth              Plant                           Plant Capacity    Realistic          Laer
*ear                   Rste        Quantity           Rste        Quanttty      C               Production  /    Utlization 12)    Demand                 ,nd
1984/85 (actual)             5.42          5.4              5.42          5.4            S.2               3.9              742                1.5             1.5
1985/86                      7.32          5.9              5.02          5.7            6.3               4.4              702                1.5             1.3
1986/87                      7.22          6.3              4.8S          5.9            7.0               5.2              742                1.i             0.7
1987/88                      7.12          6.8              4.62          6.2            7.6               5.4              712                1.4             1.2
1988/89                      7.02          7.2              4.32          6.5            8.2               6.0              732                1.2             0.5
1989190                      6.92          7.7              4.12          6.8         8.2    8.2       6.1     6.4          752             1.6    1.3      0.7    0.4
1991/92                      6.7%          8.8              4.02          7.3         8.2    i.4       6.9     7.0          842             1.9    1.8      0.4    0.3
1994/95                      6.02         10.6              4.02          8.2         8.2    9.4       6.9     8.1          842             3.7    2.5      1.3    0.1
1999/2000                    6.02         14.2              4.02         10.0         8.2    9.4       6.9     8.1          842             7.3    6.1      3.1    1.9
a/ Sources Fertilizer Association of India
l Assuming a conservative but less likely scenario whereby growth rates would be xradually reduced to 42 p.a. in 1989/90 and remaining at that level
thereafter
c/  Including all plants In operation and under ifplementation as of late 1985, Including Aonla and Indo-Gulf Projects.
f Same as c/, but also Including three additional gas based plants under consideration.
e/  AsswIng utilixation of ezlsting plants to increase to 75! of capacity by 1969/90 and 802 by 1994/95 and thereafte, vtth the new gas-based
plants to reach 952 by their respective third years of operatton.
Industry Department
June 1986



- 41 -
II1~4-
'_  X~I
. s
III       Ai
if .
+~~~~~
11<~~~~~~~~~~~I



-62-                                  ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
IFYCO - Summarised Puianieal Statements
(in olllions of current rupees)
A. IBOCMS STATlENTSe/
197980  1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85
Soles Revenues b/                   1,862      2,657     4,484      5,146      5,379      5,743
Variable Costs
Raw Materials                    990      1,518     2,624      2,813     2,784       3,772
Power, Fuel & Water               56        100       252        291       305         344
Catalysts, Chemicals and
other Purchases                 is 18      38        64        180       305          37
Bags                              87        106       131        156        173        286
Total Variable Costs           1,151      1,761     3,077      3,439     3,568       4,339
Fixed Costs
Labor L Overhead                  54         68        98        128        145        138
Maintenance & Repair              40         66         77        90        96         108
Insurance                          6         12        20         23        35          40
Depreciation                      66        107       229        310       319         309
Others d/                        284        381        383       511        581        166
Total Fixed Costs                451        634       807      1,062     1,179         761
Operating Income                       260       262        600       646        633        643
Financial Charges                       44        85        235       261        204        181
Other Income & Expenses                  2         8         48        57        (15)        29
Income Before Taxes                    218       185        413       442        413        491
Income Taxes                            27       -         -          -         -           129
Net Income After Taxes                 191       185        413       442        413        362
Dividends                               17        50         52        52  .      53         54
Retained Earnings                      174       135        361       389        360        308
Ratios (Z)
Operating Income/Revenues             14.0       9.9       13.4      12.6       11.8       11.2
Net Income After Taxes/Revenues       10.3       7.0        9.2       8.6        7.7        6.3
a/  Audited
b~/  Including reimbursement of fertilizer distribution expenditures from Fertilizer
Industry Coordination Comittee and some fertilizer imports, but before stock
adjustment (except 1984/85).
c/ Including purchases of fertilizer for resale (except 1984/85).
d/ Including distribution expenditures and stock adjustment (except 1984/85).



-  63 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 2
INDIA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZE8R INDUSTRY PROJECT
8. IFFCO: BALANCE SHEET a/
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85
Current Assets
Operating Cash                     62        109        234       212        198        307
Accounts Receivable               151        429        520        777       877      1,254
Inventory                         648        876      1,454     1,77-7    1,350       1,749
Others                            269        230        188       598      1,199        448
Total Current Assets            1,131      1,638      2,393     3,363      3,616      3,758
Investments bf                            5       133        198        383        673       833
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets              2,768      3,167     3,316      3,419      3,551      3,801
Aec. Depreciation & Amort.        349        462        690       999      1.320      1.651
Net Fixed Assets                2,419      2,705      2,626     2,419      2,231      2,150
TOTAL ASSETS                         3,556      4,481      5,220      6,166     6,520      6,741
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                  298        548        713     1,183      1,634        963
Others                            129         83         85        84         85      1,438c
Total Current Liabilities         427        631        798     1,267      1,719      2,401
Long-Term Debt d/                    1,244      1,812      2,008      2,085     1,615        828
Equity
Share Capital                     814        840        864       876        889        972
Retained Earnings               1,071      1,198      1L550     1.939      2 297      2.540
Total Equity                    1,885      2,038     2,414      2,815      3,187      3,512
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY           3,556      4,481      5,220      6,166     6,520      6,741
Ratios
Current Ratio                          2.6        2.6        3.0        2.7       2.1       1.6
Debt to (Debt + Equity) Ratio        40/60      47/53      45/55      43/57     34/66      19/81
a/ Audited.
b/ Principally in Krishak Iharatt Fertiltzr Co. (Hazira ProJect) and
Industries Chimiques du Senegal (a phosphoric acid project)
c/ Including a current portion of long-term debt.
d/ Including a current portion of long-term debt (except 1984/85).
Industry Department
June 1986



-64-
AINEt 4-3
INDIA - COOFERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
IFFCO - HAREUETNG ORGANIATION
|DIRECTOR
CAUTIS?        )WER           DP
GtNgiU MANAGER                         U  GNIMA HMANbE                            TRUSPORT
HARKSINC. NIORH-WlST                   FUUUUTl%Gs SOUTNF UrfAVtSOR
"MUUKAG         HMAN,iE         WUXR     |CHU.1               | HVQUUUB     |DETYUUU
MARKETING &     HMARETING      )MtB1EtINGt        AGRICULTURAL |PULIC                         P pERSONNEL b
DISTRITIUTION    SERVICES        ACCOUNTS            SERVICES      RELATtON      RAINING   AMINISTRATION
|       ZONAL OFFICES2
NORTH ZONE                   WEST ZONE                SOUTi ZOIE             gAST ZONE
I                              I                         I                      I
ZONAL MANAGER                ZONAL HANAGER            ZONAL MHNAGER          ZONAL MANAGER
AGRONOMIST                   AGRONOMIST               AGRONOMIST             AGRONOMIST
I                              I                         I                      I
STATE MKTG. MANAGER/         STATE HRTG. MANAGER/    STATE IETG. MANAGER/   STATE MKTO. MANAGER/
AGRONOMIST                   AGRONOMIST               AGRONOMIST             AGRONOMIST
I                              I                         I                      I
ARZA MANAGER/                AMEA MANAGER/            AREA MANAGESR/         AREA MANAGER/
AGRONOMIST                   AGRONOMIST               AGRONOMIST             AGRONOMIST
I                              I                         I                      I
FIELD OFFICER                F1ELD OFFICER            FIELD OFICER           FIEW OFFICER
Industry Department
June 1986



- 65 -                       ANNEX 5-1
Page I of-3
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Aonla Project Location and Infrastructure
A.   Project Location
1.        The Project Site-about 23 km from Bareilly (an industrialized
city of 700,000 people, providing a skilled and unskilled labour-force and
-local maintenance facilities) and 7 km from the small town of Aonla (see
Map C). The land necessary for the Aonla project is free of 'permanent
homesteads and cultivation and has been acquired by IFFCO from the local
district authority, central forestry and private sources (Project
File--Ref. F). The statutory environmental clearances required from the
Uttar PraJesh State Pollution Control Board and the concerned GOI
departments have been obtained.
2.        Site Aspects-entire project area is almost flat and is part of a
non-fertile and alkaline tract, containing compact and non-porous fine
clay. Site topographical survey and soil investigation was undertaken by
IFFCO's consultants, Projects and Development I4dia Ltd. (PDIL). As
general area is considered to be subject to possible seismic activity, PDIL
engaged specialist services of School of Earthquake Engineering (University
of Roorkee) and others, to investigate problems that might arise from
potential for soil liquefaction during earthquakes. In view of soil
condition, piled foundations will be required for heavy structures, and
about 35,000 different types of piles are currently being driven under
three contracts. Of the 517 ha of land acquired, 215 ha will be used for
plant facilities and 162 ha for township and surrounding greenbelt area,
leaving 140 ha for use as demonstration farms.
3.        Ctimate is relatively temperate with average annual rainfall of
31 Inches and temperatures between 45C and 7C.  Some water-logging at
site has been recorded in wet seasons and, to counteract this, appropriate
drainage systems are being Installed; an area is being raised with fill by
about 1 meter. In addition, embankment of Aril River (close to the
northern boundary of site) is to be adequately raised and strengthened.
Aril is small perennial river with adequate flow during dry season to
dilute a regulated flow of treated aqueous effluent discharged from plant
holding ponds. Site studies and information made available to the Bank
(Project File--Ref. F) confirm the general suitability of location.
B.   Housing
4.        Project will invest some Rs 200 million (US$17 million
equivalent) in new township of 985 single and multi-residential units to
accommodate permanent staff and families; also included will be hostels for
trainees and security staff, hospital, school, shopping centers and welfare
facilities.



-66-                          ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 3
C.   Raildays
5.        Site is well located regarding access to the national road and
railway networks for transportation of equipment, inputs and products of
the Project: it is 8 km from the Basharatganj railway station (on
Bareilly-Chandausi broad gauge section of the Northern Railway), and 4 km
from Markandpur station (on the Bareilly-8udaun meter gauge section of the
North Eastern Railway) (see Map C). The Railway Board has approved
construction of a line linking the site to main tract near Bashratganj
station. IFFCO has appointed Rail India Technical and Economic Services
(RITES), for the survey, alignment and execution of the broad gauge spur
line (Project File - Ref. G). Its construction is expected to be completed
by mid-1986, r. readiness for movement of construction equipment and
supplies. In this regard, PDIL has carried out a detailed survey for rail
and road movements to the site and a sub-consultant has been engaged to
design railway-wagons for the heavy consignments. The above railway lines
are underutilized and Ministry planning studies indicate that additional
traffic to and from the Aonla complex will not pose any problems of
overloading or availability of rolling stock. The capital cost estimate
Includes provisions for the rail link, or diesel shunting locomotives and
other related facilities.
D.   Roads
64        State Highway 33, which connects the district centers of Bareilly
and Budaun, passes about 7 km from site. Plant and township straddles
existing metalled road between Aonla and the highway, which offers good
link to state trunk road system and beyond. In view of dimensional and
weight limitations on rail movement, certain over-dimensioned equipment
such as the ammonia reactor will be brought to the site either by road from
the Wastern port of Kandla, or from Calcutta by barge along the Ganges
River to Varanisi (or further up-stream in the wet season), and thereafter
by road. The initial survey report for movement of such equipment to site,
by consultants to PEIL, has been reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory (Project File - Ref. G).
E. Telecommunications
7.        These should not pose problem during construction and operational
stages, as nearby Bareilly is well connected by microwave and coaxial
cables to national system. Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd., has
designed suitable provisions for Project's public telecommunication
requirements (telephone/telex links and a hot-line to Delhi), a private
branch exchange and Internal plant mobile emergency communications (Project
File - Ref. G), expected to cost about US$1 million equivalent.
F.   Coordinatlon
8.        As the timely availability of utilities and infrastructure is
critical for Project implementation, high level inter-agency committees
have been established at Central and State Government levels to coordinate,
monitor and expedite these requirements. The GOI committee, chaired by the
Secretary, MARD, includes representatives from the Fertilizers Department,



-   67-                      AJX 5-1
Page 3 of 3
Railways, Energy (Department of Petroleum/GAIL), Communications, Forestry,
Planning Commission and IFECO. GOI's Planning Commission routinely submits
flash reports to Prime Minister's office, prepared on basis of IFFCO's
monthly project status report, highlighting execution performance against
schedule and any major problem areas. The UP Government committee, chaired
by the Chief Secretary, includes representatives from UPS!, IFECO and the
various departments with project related interests, such as Commerce and
Industry and Irrigation.
G.   Rehabilitation Component
9.        Supply of feedstocks, utilities and Infrastructure for the
various schemes under Rehabilitation Component will impose but slight
incremental burdens, if at all, on the existing facilities, and no
difficulties are foreseen. A few of the schemes are themselves designed to
ease the situation where there are deficiencies in support facilities, such
as supplemental water supplies, new inert gas generators and, for Kandla,
improved product handling facilities.
Industry Department
June 1986



etg  of 2
MSIA
OOOPn9IE  V FVELIZE INDuS! PY  JCT
Deacrintion of Ubeablitattion Scmes
Descriptton V/                                                       1'rgncil aeefits
I.  Snre, Coasrvation/Production imrovemnt She
A. Phulpur Plant
1., Retubing of prUry refomer to .lleV operation with      102 tlcrese In ammonia output, equivalent to 49,500 tpy of urea.
high aromatic feedstock for tiproved capacity
utlIzatlon. (3.86/3.88)
2. end-to-Sad energy survey of plant by coaultant to       Quantifiable upon eomplettion of survey.
identify aodifications needed for enaray consrvation.
(1.86/7.86)
3. Purification of synthesis gs wIks-up with molecular     Saving in Sygs Copresor BP Stesm   7 tph. equivalent to
sieves and repiping of synthesis loop to reduce energ    5,000 tpy of spbtlu  ned for stem generation.
use. (7.87/12.89)
4. Presre song absorption, inert ae generation plant    Saving in h_onia - 2.73 tpd, equivalent to 1,500 tpy
to replace existing unit bed on amm_o  cracking.        production of urea.
(10.87/10.89)
8. Kaol Plant
1. Urea plant equipment replaceent. and odifieationw      SaviAg itn Ammonia - 0.01 t/t urea, or 3,960 tpy of urea.
based on plant energy consumption survey.  (1.86/1.89)    Saving in Steam   - 0.005 t/t urea or 143 tpy of fuel oil.
2. Replacenent of coils aad additional burners in pritry   Saving iSn Wpbtha - 6,391 tpy.
reformer convection zone. (7.86/7.88)
3. Replacement of LT Shift Convetter and NIthanator        Boiler feed water het recovery increase of 1.5 cal./ht, equivalent to
effluent coolers for itproved heat excu_e efficiency.  reduction In uaphtha use for stem gnration by 1,131 tpy.
(1.86/1.88)
4. Pressure energy recovery by back pressure steam          Saving In 60 ata steao - 2.4 tph, or 1,354 tpy of fuel oil.
turbine on HP Amonia pump for supply of 23 ate
scean. (7.86/7.89)
S. Guard bed for LT Shift Converter to prolong catalyst     1,872 tpy itcrease in ammonia output; with a 1992 net value of about
Life and increase amonia production. (7.86/7.8U)       US$100,000 (1985 terme) after costs of Increased catalyst nd naphtha.
6.  ass Spactroester and Wicroprocessor for amonta          Saving in Energy - 0.05 C cal/t  Meonia, or 1,430 tpy of naphtha.
plant measuremnt and control for process optitizetion.
(7.86/7.88)
7. Purification of synthesis gas ake-up witb molecular     Saving in Syngas Compressor HP Stea  - 6 tpb, equivalent to 3,530 tpy
Sieves end repiping of synthesis loop to reduce        of napbtha use for stem generation.
energy use. (7.87/7.90)
C. Kandla Plant
1. Installation of Pipe or Pressure Reactor Ln two trains   Decrease in the cost of production due to increased output
to reduce rtecycle to product ratio, Increase output and  equivalent to 65,000 tpy of P205 and 30? reduction in energy consumption
reduce the speciftc consumption of energy. (1.86/1.88)  per ton of product.
a/ Dates (monthyear) In brackets lndicate eapectd starting and completion dates for ech schow.



- 69 -
AEX5-2
p.8, a of 2
Descriptien of Rehabilitation Schemes (eontd)
it. Operational Reliability ISrovEtvst Sc
A. Phulhur Plant
1. Replacement of ammonia pl,Ce  beat                       Avoidance of past production losees through recorded downtime of equipment,
exchangers giving fraquent let  ge, problem.             equivalent to about 1,400 tpy of urea.
(1.86/7.a7)
2. lsntal 6 high capacity bowl dlils for grinding coal       Rtduction in frequency of boiler shut--down  and  bility to handle
fed to boilers, to replace eristing inadequate unite.    htgb ash content fuel, savitg at leat 3 dayale/r of urea production
B. Raldl Plant-
1. Instal urea prill cooling systea to ceol product to      Improvesent in product strength, reduction in dust formation and
50160  frto  80190. observed in su,c/st peek loads.      caking tendency.
(1.8661.88)
2. lstal a urea supergranule plant of 100,000 tpy           improvemnt in product quality cthrecteristics, compared to prilln, and
capacity, including material handtiUg facilities.        higher (up to 25S) efficiency in the application of urea.
(1.83611.89).
3. Procurement of Inspection and  na lysis Equipment for     Ensured reliabi ity of plant equipoent/reduced shut-down frequency through
monitoring plant equipment condition. (7.66/12.68)       t5nely maintenance or replacemnts.
4. Replacementa of aging equipment, causing problems and    Reduction in plant shut-downs, toes of production capacity and maintenance
unscheduled shut-downs, and ranovetiona in offaites      or replacements.
areas. (1.86/7.89)
5. Presaure sviug absorption, inert gas generation plant    Improved reliability of plant, fast start-up eapability and savings in
to replace exlsting unit based on a&onIa crackIng.       operating cost and ammonia consumptIon.
(12.86/12.88)
C. Kandla Plant
1.  ntast  supplemtal water supply system by tube-wells      Reduction of plant downtime due to water shortages in the dry season,
or ues-water desalination. (1.86/4.87)                   estimted to save up to 50,000 tpy of product.
2. Construction of nw bulk storage and product               Ability to handle up to 1.5 miltion tpy of product and maintsin production
handling facilities.  (7.87/12.89)                       continuity and generally Improve produetion reliability.
Ill. Effluent and Pollution Control Scheme
A Phut ur Plant
1.  Installation of urea bydrolser unit for recovery        linimization of  mmonia/urea in plant effluent discharge and water recovery
and recycle of amonia and urea to process.               for feed to boilers after polishing; estimAted avings are 4,300 tpy of
(1.86/1.88)                                              urea and 277,000 tpy of boiler feed water.
2. Various schems for use of aqueous blow-don                General iprovements in treatmnt of effluents and wastes discharged
and effluenta, re-uae of water, and treatment of         by the plant.
oil drains and flue gases. (1.86/1.89)
B. Kslol Plant
1. lIstallation of Reverse Osmoss Plant to desalinate       Reduction in high blow-down rates from system, threat of stress
raw water for supply of cooling tower make-up uater,     corrosion from high chloride  content and di charge of pollutants.
(1.8617.88)
2. Provision of evaporative system to use stripped           Winimization of effluent discharge from urea unit and recovery of about
process water frow desorber colum as a cooling           2 tpd of urea presently lost in plant effluent.
medim, with purge recycle to process.
(7.8617.89)
3. bdifications to deseorber column  for Improved            Reduction in stem censmption, higher steam condensate
operational efficency in eanergy conservatlion           recovery and effluent quality improvemnt.
and pollution control. (7.86/7.89)
tV. Safet   asuren
A. PhulMnr ana Iblol Plants
1. Installation at each site of an additional monie         Compliance with State and industry safety practices, the provision of
storage tank with improved safety aspects of design      a spare tank and the removal of large amounts of oil accumuated in the
end to allow statutory inspection of existing tank,      tanks.
whichb ba been in operation over ten years.
(1.86/1.89)
Industry Depsrtmnt
Jnae 1986



- ?0 -                ~~~~ANNEX 5-3
Page I of 4
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Gas Supply to the Aonla Project
A.  West Coast Offshore Gas Availability
1.   Current Production
Source-Associated gas from Bombay High Oil Field.
Supply-Expected peak flow: 11 to 13 million Nced in late 1980s,
declining to about 8 million Ncmd by mid-1990s.
Users--Existing fertilizer and power plants in the Bombay area.
Potential Usage--Higher than supply, though the power plants with
multi-fuel firing capability are Interruptible consumers.
Supply Restraints-The Uran gas terminal and the offshore gas pipeline
from the oil field (see Map B) can only handle 8 and 9.5 million
Ncmd of rich natural gas, respectively.
2.   Production Under Development
Source--Non-associated gas from South Bassein field (Bank Loan No.
2241-IN, South Bassein Offshore Gas Development Project).
Initial Supply-10 million Ncmd of gas (including up to 5 million Ncmd
of Bombay High rich gas) to Kawas gas terminal, near the Hazira
fertilizer plant, via a recently codmissioned 235 km offshore
pipeline with a capacity of 20 million Ncmd. If needed,
additional pipeline capacity will be provided. Production of
South Bassein gas scheduled to begin October 1986 and reach full
capacity by January 1987.
Expansion of Supply-South Bassein gas output is to be quadrupled to
20 million Ncmd by adding three drilling platforms and second
process platform. Execution of this second phase, requested for
Bank financing, has commenced and scheduled for commissioning by
April 1988.
Recoverable Reserves-Estimated at 205 billion Nem. giving a reserve
to production ratio of 28 years for the 20 million Ncmd level of
production at. which the field is presently being developed.
3.   Potential Production--From satellite offshore fields, estimated by the
Bank to centain in all about 125 billion Ncm of recoverable
reserves, and expected to be in production by mid-1990s at a rate
of about 9 million Ncmd.
B.   Demand for Additional Gas Production
4. Planned Consumers--Growth In output of natural gas will supply: (i)
the operational Hazira fertilizer plant, requiring about 3.7
million Ncmd at full output; (ii) the six inland ammonia/urea
complexes under construction or proposed in the north-western
region, each consuming 1.32 million Ncmd of gas as feedstock and
a further 0.5 Ncmd for power generation; (iii) the likely
generation of approximately 1,500 KW of power from three
combined-cycle gas turbine plants using up to 6.9 million Ncmd of
gas, situated at Kawas, Anta and Auralya along the inland gas
pipeline that will feed the new fertilizer complexes; and (iv)



- 71 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 2 of 4
other likely industrial users of captive power, consumlng about I
million Ncmd gas.
5.   Gas Distribution SYstem_-About 1,720 km of onshore gas pipeline and
related auxillarli will be installed from Hazira up to UP.
'nown as the UaLira-Iijaipur-Jagdishpur (or NBJ) Gas Pipeline
Project, it will connect the land-fall of the South Bassein
submarine pipeline to the fertilizer locations as shown by
Nap S. SAR 5436-IN gives full details of the HBJ Project and
updated gas supply/denmad situation. Subsequent to its
appraisal, the Bank has withdrawn from this project.
6. The following table sumaorizes the likely future supply/demand balance
for HBJ pipeline gas:
mr PiEMM (l Swplyn   Dowd for elsol d Years
16788/ L98/89    9/90 199/91 1993/4 1995/96
1. Go bagltbllf
GM Pzudactina/           13.0   11.2   11*1   10.5    9.0    8.0
L_: Ri Gm tD emosy         8o      8.0     Lo     8.0    8.0      8o
Balai to Ke                5.0     32      3.     2.S    1.0    -
Sih                 Fiell4d
Fm an Proction Sa/       M10   14.4    0.0   20.0   24.4   2L8
TaOW       atly atK    b/  1r8    162    21.3   :0.7   234    265
1mg: Hbdra lIchb G   d     3.4    3.7    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9
hMfu Avalable to IW
M#f                       14-   12.5   17.4   16.8   19.5   22.6
2. Ptoiectd Rid    DCmd c/
FertiUzxr PLade        1.9    6.6   11.2 d/ 121 d/ 12.1   12.1
pbmr pines e/ ,o0              0      6.9    6.9    6.9    6.9
O0w Luslyseu                   -                      1.1    1.1
Total HIR ld
- witbut FRer PlIts       1.9    6.6   11.2   13.2   13.2   132
- with POr Plaits         1.9    6.6   18.1   20.1   2D.1   20.1
i.GCm awDr, (hDecit)
- vitbu PoAr P1ats       8.5    5.9    6.2    3.6    6.3    9.4
- with Fmr PLits         85      5.9   (0.7)   (3.3)  (0.6)    2.5
Notes: at            nolatfonm not 1nc1ilff     omdenate (t0  projection).
b  After iiagi (Le., redictim In hvolm due to aso ud In
proams1z ant sm.teIlg oeratlm,   mallU- ama extraction iE
12 adit cuate),            go f1.u c _omate.
4  AU1 for 9.62 *d         to dipg 1 pin¢t drmsio, comressor ue
and pipeUne UIG plt (Rlich Go   1.1062 x ten On Dmtod).
d/ lmdua awi amme i dulay in eatiute  stt-up duta fr plats
at Dilopa, 3s1xsea and Rbhjdmiw (paa 2.15). D1imu fhn 1990
is baud an 100 of oqmrity idtil4atn.
d/ Ikxz1u. GOI stoxe tht it viMi aimlt to siVply 4 mEllon Nad of
gPs, abone ld. tdhe pLais s1mld t nbeile af .Eiitg lt iqudd
finl in the emme of a gs dsht...



- 72 -
ANNEX 5-3
7.   Gas Sufficiency Supply of gas could be In deficit assuming fertilizer
plants operate at full capacity by 1990 and, concurrently, the
power plants and other users are connected and fully
operational. This is unlikely to the extent shown by the above
table, where gas production levels are probably conservative,
relative to that possible over the next decade, and the
consumption indicated is maximum. The South Bassein field could
be exploited more quickly, development of the satellite fields
could be accelerated and additional gas may also be available
from the Gu arat onshore fields. On the demand side, the
consumer's gas requirements can be reduced by alternative firing
of liquid fuels in the three power plants and in the six
fertilizer plants for the generation of power and steam;
equivalent to a total of about 4.5 MMCMD of rich gas at full
capacity utilization. Nevertheless, if GOI commits substantial
amounts of HBJ pipeline gas to power generation, there is a clear
need for a concerted gas production planning and market
development exercise.
C. HBJ Pipeline Arrangements
8.   Implementing Agency-As a separate organization split off from the Oil
and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC), the Gas Authority of India
Ltd. (GAIL) was established by GOI in July 1984 to plan and
construct plants and infrastructure to facilitate use of natural
gas, to purchase gas from producers (ONGC at Kawas) and to
distribute and market the gas.
9.   Role of GAIL on  BJ Prolect-Initially, to engineer and construct the
HMJ pipeline (estimated cost about US$1.3 billion), for which
purpose GAIL contracted Engineers India Ltd. (NIL) to provide
technical design and engineering services and BIL in turn
contracted for specialized technical back-up support with the gas
utility GASUNIE-Netherlands. In April 1985, however, GOI changed
the role of this organization to one of project management.
10. Execution of HBJ Project--GOI decided to award the work of design,
engineering, construction and commissioning of the pipeline and
its associated facilities under a turnkey arrangement to
experienced international pipeline contractors through ICB. This
will be based on GAIL's preliminary engineering activities of
pipeline sizing and alignment and spacing of compressors and also
procurement of the line pipe, which was ordered in mid-1985 for
free supply to the pipelaying contractor in 1986/87.
11. Execution Status and Schedule-The HBJ pipeline contract was
te-!ered in June 1985 and four consortia from Italy, France,
Catiada and Japan responded. Technical bids were opened in
August. Bid evaluation was completed and the award
recommendation submitted to GOI by end-1985. Following
conclusion of a construction agreement, expected shortly, the
successful contractors should mobilize in the field by mid-1986
and establish methods and technical details for construction of
pipeline, which according to the bid invitation for this
contract, must comply with following schedule:



ANNEX 5-3
Page 4 of 4
HBJ Pipeline Terminals Completion Schedule
(as per bid invitation for construction contract)
GAIL - Commercial Operation Dates for Gas Supply
Boiler Start-up                 Process Start-up
Fertilizer Plant Site      _(0.3 MMCMD)                        (1.4MMCHD)
Gas Supply for
Bijaipur, MP                  3.31.1987                         9.31.1987
Aon}a, UP                     7.31.1987                         1.31.1988
Jagdisbpur, UP                12.31.1987                        6.31.1988
Sawai Madhopur, Rajasthan     1.31.1988                         7.31.1988
Babrala, UP                   7.31.1988                         1.31.1989
Shahjahanpur, UP              12.31.1988                        6.31.1989
a/   Initial rate of supply, to be increased according to plant demands to
full level of 1.82 MMCMD per plant.
The pipeline implementation schedule is tight and allows about 14 months
for construction and commissioning of the 1,210 km section between Kawas
and Aonla. For Aonla, the above timing for initial supply of gas is about
4 months later than planned for boiler start-up under IFFCO's 42-month
plant construction schedule, but would be in time for boiler start-up under
the move conservative 48-month schedule assumed as achievable by the
appraisal mission. As is the case for the MP Project, IFFCO will minimize
the effect of delay in gas availability on the Project by providing
capability for firing steam generation plant with a liquid fuel, for up to
6 months.
12.       GOI has committed itself to IFFCO in principle to make the needed
gas available to the project; however, a formal gas supply agreement has
not been concluded.
Industry Department
June i986



- 74 -
ANNEX 5-4
MDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Euvirounental Standards
Threshold Limit Values for Working Aeaes of Plant (8 Hour Average)
Ammonia                                           25 ppm
Hydrocarbon (methane)                            100 ppm
Carbon Monoxide                                   50 ppm
Vanadium (as V205)                               50 micrograms/ms
Atmospheric Emissions
Prill Tower Emissions: Tke dust content in the prilling tower exhaust air
shall not exceed 40 mg/NW and the total particulate matter emission shall
not exceed 1 metric tons per day from the prilling tower of Urea Plant.
The expecqed amount of total air flowing from prilling tower is about
12,000 N1l/tonue of urea product. Atmospheric emissions of ammonia shall
not exceed 50 ppm.
Urea Plant Inert Gas Scrubbers: Emissions shall be out of the explosive
range and the maximum ammonia losses shall be o.8 kg/ton of urea product.
Plant Liquid Effluent
Water quality standards for discharge at plant battery limits:
- pR                                                 5.5 to 9.0
- Temperature                                        40-C
- Ammoniacal Nitrogen (as N)                         50    mg/l
- Total Nitrogen (as N)                              50    yg/1
- Free Ammonia (as NH3)                               5    mgli
- Total Suspended Solids                             50    mg/l
- Biochemical Oxygen
Demand for 5 days at 20C                           30    mg/l
- Oils and Grease                                    10   mg/l
- Total Chromium (as C:)                              0.5  mg/l
- Rexavalent Chromium (as Cr)                         0.1  mg/i
- Chemical Oxygen Demand                            250    mg/l
- Vanadium (as V205)                                0.1    ig/l
- Urea                                                5    ppm
Industry Department
June 1986



- 75 -
ANNEX 5-5
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Pollution Control Measures
1.  Liquid Effluents
Process Plant Effluents -- The process plants are designed for minimal
ammonia and urea losses in the plants' liquid effluent streams,
similar to designs adopted in the recent gas-based fertilizer
projects. After stripping to reduce the ammonia content, the process
plant effluent will be hydrolized to decompose the urea to recover and
recycle the resulting carbon dioxide and ammonia, with the aqueous
effluent stream normally being reused as boiler feedwater make-up
after polishing.
Stream and Turbine Condensates -- Recycled as boiler feedwater after
polishing.
Cooling Tower low-downs -- Treated for chromate removal and lime
softening. Filter cake from the lime softening plant is transported
for disposal.
Demineralization Plant Effluent - Following neutralization of the
acidic/alkaline effluents, the concentrated stream will be collected
in solar evaporation ponds for drying and disposal of salts.,
Others (Boiler blow-down, clarifier/filter back-wash/softening plant/oily
water separator effluents) - The treated effluents will be held in
delay ponds for regulated discharge into the Aril E.ver.
2. Atmospheric Diacharnes -- Urea dust escaping from the urea prilling
tower into the atmosphere will be no more than 0.04 grams of urea per Ncm
of exhaust sir. Flue gases from the gas reforming, furnace and the stream
and power plant will be discharged Without adverse impact. A flare stack
wili be provided so that no harmful gases escape unburnt into the
atmosphere. The tank for storage of up to 10,000 ton of ammonia consists
of an insulated outer shell containing an inner shell holding the ammonia.
Both shells are of steel suitable for storing refrigerated ammonia in the
event of failure of this inner shell and will meet the safety standards of
the UK Chemical Industry Association codes.
3.  A summary diagram of the effluent scheme is shown in the Attachment.
Details of these arrangements and 'pollution emission levels have been
reviewed by the Central Department of Environmental and Forestry and the UP
State Pollution Control Board to their satisfaction.
Industry Department
June 1986



- 76 -
Ao 55
C00POUT1U YEfr?TERU IRIUTg PVROJ=
AoDla - Ligauid Wlguzonta Troeat Bats.
AMOUIk PLANT
tiy Waler                                      %1DiC Oil Separator      |         
85005/hr,-,
Proees3 C~~~~~Oadenat              e        Pollaituff nsit 
PilerBak nsh                                             __uli
25uO3/br
BCooling Tower Blou-n o  _     -
10IRBATotl PZJ ETid
52 Uo5/lhr    
(Sateram  ittenat) 
0115 VI'ES ~ ~      ~      2  4/h
rbfn Condent sa 90te  4.                              taishing ?anik-
Filtired-c s -e- l-t-ed-
SanitarySavage                           lologal SeagReaovaltPlnti.
(Indtermipatment)
Junoeee 1986ngt Shr
Rf (ueO ppH 9.ta  lltroge 4.                        1otr  isoldin  Pond3 E                                                        rl  i
Boiler     -     -                                                2lllhrv
lste ~ ~ ~~~~~Uh                                                             Clarifie Poliobing      Greg     tn
Jturne  Codnat9                                           olen  Ui; l-- 



- 77                         ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Project Management and Execution Arrangements
A.   Aonla Component
I EnRgineering Arrangements and Transfer of Technology
1. Thal and Hazira Projects--GOI strategy was to facilitate
introduction and transfer of technology from foreign
licensor/contractors through their close association with
Indian counterpart contractors for engineering/construction.
Physical completion of these projects with minimal delays and
costs close to budget justified a previous GOI decision to
continue with above strategy in its selection of execution
arrangements for three inland fertilizer projects based on gas
supply from HUJ pipeline.
2. Inland Projects Under Construction-In order of commencement of
execution; the MP project of National Fertilizers Ltd. (NFL),
the Aonla Project, and the Jagdishpur Project of Indo-Gulf
Fertilizers and Chemicals Corp., also in UP. For -the MP
Project and based on their evaluation of the foreign and
Indian firms involved with Thal and Hazira, NFL and GOI
negotiated with Haldor Topsoe/PDIL for ammonia plant services
and Snamprogetti/PDIL for urea plant services, repeating
arrangements under Thal Project. Arrangement conforms with
Bank guidelines for use of consultants, permitting (in the
case of repeat projects) the selection of a
qualified/experienced firm without re-bidding when a soundly
established relationship ecists. GOI approved selection of
technologies and related firma, maintaining same basic
arrangements for Aonla/Jagdishpur projects, thereby completing
process of technology transfer to PDIL.
3. Contracting Details for Process Plants
HP Project-Ammonia Plant  : Topsoe with PDIL as sub-
contractor.
Urea Plants    : Snamprogetti in consortium with
PDIL.
Jagdishpur Project-Ammonia: Snamprogettl having total turnkey
and !Trea Plants            responsibility with PDIL as
associate.
Aonla Project-IFFCO recommended and GOI approved singular
responsibility by Snamprogetti; being most advantageous re
design uniformity, a compact and unified plant layout,
optimized process and utility system-likely to result in
lower investment cost and higher on-stream efficiency as well
as better coordination with other contractors and more
effective control of project costs and schedule.



_ 78 -
ANNMX 6-1
Page 2 of 6
--IFFCO, Snamprogetti and PDIL entered into a
tripartite agreement whereby Snamprogetti provides the basic
designs and process guarantees for both the ammonia and urea
plants, with Topsoe acting as sub-consultant and licensor of
the ammonia technology. Both processes are extensively
proven. PDIL, as co-consultaut, is undertaking detailed
engineering, the preparation of bid documents for equipment,
materials and construction contracts, management of
procurement, supervision of construction and commissioning of
the entire process facilities.
--IFFCO, in addition, has separate contracts with: (1)
Snamprogetti, for all services outside India including process
license, basic engineering package and procurement of critical
equipment; and (ii) PDIL for detailed engineering, procurement
services for non-critical equipment and
construction/commissioning services, under the overall
supervision of Snamprogetti (Project File - Ref. H).
-PDIL, to further Its acquisition of the technology,
will also work with Snamprogetti on proprietary design,
engineering and procurement aspects.
--IFECO has obtained adequate insurance coverage for
equipment and civil works for the construction period.
4. The Process Planc Consultants
Snamprogretti-8as considerable experience in the execution of
projects using both technologies and on-going experience in
India, particularly on the Thal, Hazira and NP Projects,
besides the provision of services for IFCCO's urea plant at
Phulpur.
PDIL-Now more proficient in the execution of modern
fertilizer plant technologies; through its involvement on same
gas-based projects with Soamprogretti and is performing well
in its broad responsibilities for process and offsite
faeilities of MP Project.
--With completion of work at Thal and Hazira and
engagement of extra staff, engineering/construction manpower
(capable of providing required services for the MP and
Jagdishpur ammonia/urea/offsite facilities and for the Aonla
process units) is adequate, in addition to other ongoing work.
-Total engineering manpower is about 1.2 million
man-hours per qiarter compared to the present peak deployment
of about 0.76 million man-hours per quarter, of which 76% is
taken up with the above three projects. Construction manpower
amounts to about 0.86 million man-hours per quarter, which Is
adequate for the construction supervision needs of the three
projects, plus a small amount of other residual work.



- 79 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 3 of 6
5. The Offsites Consultant--Development Consultants Private Ltd.
(DCPL), engaged by IFFCO as general contractor responsible for
design, procurement and erection of the auxiliary facilities
and offsites. The major areas, including the integrated power
and steam plant will be executed under packaged contracts for
engineering, equipment supply and erection with specialiat
firms under ICR. DCPL has sufficient manpower to undertake
this activity and has extensive experience especially on
offeites and -"eptive power plant works including inter alia,
the IFFCO plant and Phulpur and the more recent Thal and
Hazira projecto. The DCPL team assigned to the Project is the
same that carried out the work at Phulpur, and has moved to
the Project after completing its responsibilities at Hazira.
--The engineering arrangements for the offsite
facilities, as well as for the process plants, are considered
to be satisfactory.
II. Proiect Management and Implementation
6. Existing IFFCO Plants-The Kalol and Kandla plants were
constructed under the management of IFFCO proje-t groups with
the assistance of a limited number of US expatt ate staff of
Cooperative Fertilizers International and others from the
contractors' project teams. Contracts were let in July 1971.
The Kandla plant and the Kalol ammonia unit began commercial
operation 42 months and 40 months later, respectively. The
Kalol urea unit, however, did not start-up until 5 months
after the ammonia unit, due to delayed shipment of the
imported reactor. The Phulpur Project was mechanically
completed in 46 months from the effective zero date, as
against the initial estimate of 45 months. All the plants
have since operated very efficiently. The general adherence
to schedules in these projects indicates the ability of
IFFCO's staff, in conjunction with major engineering firms, to
effectively manage the construction of large fertilizer plants
and to bring them successfully into commercial operation. In
addition, IFPCO provided a substantial engineering workforce
for the initial stages of implementation of the Hazira
fertilizer complex of KRIBHCO and these experienced staff have
largely been redeployed to the Project.
7. Project Team-IFFCO employs a total of 4,945 personnel, including
about 1,000 graduate staff in senior managerial to supervisory
grades and over 900 (with an engineering diploma as a basic
qualification) in skilled technical grades. IFFCO is thus
able to select the required professionals, experienced in
ammonia/urea-production, technical services, maintenance and
project execution, for building up its Project Management Team
(PMT) as a task force independent from normal line-management
functions and dedicated to execution of the Project. The
Project implementation organization is shown in Attachment 1,
and is currently functional and adequately staffed for the



- 80 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 4 of 6
present level of execution activities. It has exzcusive
responsibility for management of the Aonla Project, within the
stipulated time and cost, by coordinating the work of the
foreign and local design and engineering consultants and other
contractors. The PMT is headed by an Executive Director, who
reports to IFFCO's Managing Director and is assisted by four
senior managers responsible for the technical services,
construction, financial and administrative functions of the
Project. The Mission has reviewed the biodata for key staff
and considers them well qualified for their posts (Project
File - Ref. B).
-The responsibilities of the Project Services
Department are discharged by four Project groups, supervised
by two managers (one for engineeringtprocurement, the other
for scheduling/monitoring of the Project and for coordinating
quality control and clearances of equipment and materials.
Besides formulation of the design philosophy, the
engineering/procurement groups coordinate with the consultants
in basic design, detailed engineering and procurement
activities. The technical groups review engineering designs
and plan all preparatory work relating to commissioning and
operations, including training. In support of the PMT's key
activity in supervising costs, schedule and quality, Tata
Consultancy Services was appointed as consultant for the
development of the computerized project monitoring system.
IFFCO's construction department, now geared to site and
infrastructure development activities in the field, consists
of sections responsible for each major construction area (in
planning and coordinating the work of the plant contractors
and also sub-contractors providing the craft functions) and
for planning and management of materials and supplies.
Project financing and accounting, budgeting, control of
expenditures and overall financial discipline vith regard to
handling of funds is the responsibility of the Finance
Department, while the normal administrative procedures,
concerning industrial relations, recruitment, personnel
matters and liaison with outside agencies, are exercised by
the Administration Department.
--The PMT includes about 100 staff at present and is
planned to reach a peak number of 270 staff when construction
is fully underway. Initially, the Project Services Department
is operating from IFFCO headquarters in Delhi, with some
process and project engineers working in the foreign
consultant's office. Some construction staff are located at
Bareilly to supervise work on the Aonla site development,
piling, infrastructure and construction facilities, now all
underway, as well as execution of the first phase of the
township. The center of activity is expected to shift to site
later in 1986 with the build-up of the construction workforce
and, after procurement has been substantially completed, most
PMT staff wili be relocated to manage the Project from site.



- 81 -                        ANNEX 6-1
Page 5 of 6
Production and maintenance staff will be assigned to the
Project well before mechanical completion to undertake
pre-commissioning activities on the plants and also to set-up
the operational procedures and for start-up of the Project.
1II. Operational Manpower and Training
8. Workforce--According to IFFCO's estimates, total requirement of
manpower for the Aonla plant during the operational phase will
be 1,227 persons, including 9 managerial, 186 supervisory, 621
skilled operatives and 384 unskilled workers,-besides 27
marketing staff. This number appears to be on the high side
compared with other large gas-based fertilizer projects in
which the Bank has been involved. The staffing plan is,
however, based on IFFCO's experience in its existing plants,
where employment levels are 931 at Kalol, 994 at Krndla and
1,171 at Phulpur. Appropriate adjustments were made in the
staffing estimate for special requirements such as captive
power plant, total maintenance capability without recourse to
external services, and township administration.
9.  Recruitment/Traini--The organization diagram for the operational
phase of the Project is given in Attachment 2. Key senior
positions will be entirely filled through reassignments from
other locations within IFPCO. About 100 middle to lower
maanagement positions and another 150 key operators and
maintenance technicians will also be drawn from IFFCO's
existing plants. The balance of the manpower will be met
through recruitment from outside in line with needs of the
Project. Experienced personnel requiring the minimum amount
of induction training will be engaged from other
organizations, mainly in the fertilizer, chemical and
oil-refining industries. The potential middle level managers
would undergo more extensive training in management and
functional skills and techniques in the existing plants. At
the same time a regular flow of trainees will be drawn from
technical institutions for employment in operations and
maintenance after successfully completing the training
programs provided by IFFCO. An important feature of the
recruitment plan is that a large number of technical and
non-technical personnel will be developed and trained by
employing fresh young engineers and other graduates. The
continuous process of training started in early 1985 with 55
trainees and IFFCO plans for a peak number in trainiag of 335
about one year ahead of plant start-up. The mission reviewed
IFFCO's recruitment and training proposals and considers them
to be adequate for the needs of the Project (Project File -
Ref. I).
B. Rehabilitation Component
10.     -The rehabilitation requirements of existing IFFCO plants
were proposed by the plants' technical services and



- 82 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 6 of 6
maintenance departments. The present proposals and the
management of their execution are consistent with the specific
rehabilitation program that was successfully undertaken at
Kalol in the late 1970s. The technology involved and the
equipment modifications and replacements have been selected in
the normal course of plant optimization studies and energy
consumption surveys, and from the awareness of inadequate
equipment performance and the potential for use of more modern
technology.
11. Implementation--Rehabilitation measures involving process
changes, modifications to critical process equipment and the
adoption of modern technology will be carried out under the
management of site process, project and maintenance staff
teams assigned for this duty to a project task force at each
site. Process or mechanical design and engineering assistance
will be contracted from the original process
consultants/contractors, who have already been involved in
definition of the appropriate rehabilitation schemes.
Companies offering new technology, such as the Kandla pipe
reactor component, or designs for process modernization, will
be eligaged on a licensor or consultant basis. Implementation
of the plant improvement programs will be the responsibility
of the individual General Managers of the plants, assisted by
the Project Managers heading the project task force at each
site. For this purpose, IFFCO is strengthening the
engineering services departments at the three locations, which
can call on the maintenance departments for specialist
engineering.
12. Manpower-All IPFCO managers and staff required for implementing
the program will be drawn from within the organization,
although in critical areas specialist erectors and technicians
may need to be engaged from equipment suppliers or engineering
firms. The operational phase of the various rehabilitation
measures is unlikely to alter existing manpower arrangements.
IFPCO will be required to sutbmit to the Bank a detailed plan
for the project management and execution arrangements to be
followed during implementation of the Rehabilitation
Component.
Industry Department
June 1986



INDIA
COOPERAUVE FERTUZER INDUST PROJECT
ft Excift ompOone n
ifoP co    oocaeic
Gerowomolvvw                                         Conad~~G    Mwmgw
( U                  ''g  ''      '        -  I                   I(CI    '                                                                1cion
b    I          .   ~           -  
(fMm          I    =
anh)~~~~~~~~~~~~~C00h I$4 ofi
-41010_ A                                                                                   - !. Design
-Sct&         I                                                                    -    l O SUpW    m tO Ctrsct     on                 Ata ansbQ a
CQadnaa  I~u~nf~                    __               _BmII lQQ I                                                                        I6'.'-,in
Moroo Fww*      bsi & eaie   MPionring6~ to scum  leO,a &MA p                                                                 Ceamc rng              Lo LRoCMtmflto
AlaC0ocaw4                                                                                                                           WaS0Swvaci
- Al ftc Tech. MO                                                                                                                   -
- Tr*i & stoatw
ns(P                                        arlt Co) n)   I                           I                                           M ac) I I1e)1
_ oll               - obai CCtPh          _ asoItS ed"n                            - Ma wMr 4 & Acetr d WToy otrcor.AOMC"Vnm4*& wo
-Coot a lr altn .Ath  - PIOCO OA                               ; *W&                Cccttci                                     -  od t IFCO
P I/CA,&latrolto     tpot~eU~            - -nGOO Amicy                            -     s      di     Pt1 Pkt5         -SOww                                     - RoCh PWCNTet
-    Haxwxftn                              Cw      s                                                                                                        of Mo_bn5               *IC
firms                _       i            R01iC&                    l                                                        _        ^&
- dWhnRJoI to $-si
Industry Department 
June 1986



INDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
AONLA - ORGANIZATION CHART - PLANT OPERATION
NGER MANAGER   MANAGER       MANAGERMANAGERERMANAGN
ENVIRONMEN  N   ',ENERAL     PECHCESSL                                        ELCTRICA
PROTECTION     EHNIG        UNMN.
Industry Departmenit
June 1986
_  T - -          I                I    _    _  ~~~~~~~~~~1r~~~~~J            |       I~



INDIA
COOPEUATI    FERnLUZER INDUST PROJECT
Aorio Conipnen
Poe IMP*Meetafm Schedub.
ACT"                              2 i4  5                                  61471M1O92I12 48 7 9 01 1                         q               3,
Wale~ ~ ~ .evIe                                                                                                          . .~roe   ,:      . .: .      *9W
OSet Vs Go                                                                                          1 
cratnst Vft a                                                                0-                      .       r 
Cowsa*  Ps&-w &mp St v, Geserofl PlnI                                                  u     m,                        mus
Wct So Hanoing Slooge& TSaggInt                                            -                              p*hn    T
vWAd VII v                                                           .                                    -        N '
Lir- "4*V "090 a bagov                                                       A                              "Mr/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-IJ
ftxcracl                                            V         OAd          _*,
CRr         9nG        hn oflf  .xn T*fwi  _*t*  at   v                                             
CNllsConta                                            v.
Bo0t & (SNWabe En'eRIn                          -  -  --         -  -         S   -  .0caowmeis. 0t Pwes froo    F Dea-*V &   POWrQ&tg a Leo
strIn a cm Wa*                          -  ---                      -  ---- - -- -  * r~c 0D ew 0, ~cm V
PtocimerTto & CabruhctilnII
-t rwbIt                                                                                                  A    I
Coding laosS                                                                              
Psctrc'ars                                                                                                F V  -
,EntatIOn                                            V           V                                                   -                '- v  '    v
Ccaboat& Owmcais                                                                 V                                       A
Pwge  s Vew Unt                  .                                   V n
hMnro Stage TaMnL Loo*adOg/ndnfg                   V                             AL
I&Oa tlng TOeer                              V           O           -                 -
Gr~nte lieft PlodutionqoAzotaod n        -                                                                               _ __
V        ufl n               ble.Do.    .. .Ewva *                                                    EQ.WMe     ,,tte . _ .: t          4.
V0/1184      tQtt4et Crig                         Mom fEctro                                     AOkN)* CatuWlUa st
kkocaetKvUow     4rlr51/                            4/e                 11/1/e5                   $/tel   VO/OW           a,1st      
A       tW6N7CG RCKOo "
.u_  ConttCamiWn                    o42-mnrhs soespropo*se*FFCO                                                                                             WonTs      o1 2
Industry Department
June 1986



-6-
ANNME 7-1
INDIA
COOPBRATIVE FERTILIZER IUMSTRY PROJE
&onla - Capital Cbost Estimate
Rs million                                            US$ million
Local Purehases                                      Local Purchases
Direct    Indirect                 Total             Direct    tindirect                  Totat
Imports    Foreign      Local                        imports    Foreign  -Local
ExUc'han8e   OesDonent                               Exchange    omponent -n      -
1.   Equipment. Matertials and Spares
Ammonia Plant                             806        130          154      1,090              62.0         10.0        11.8        83.8
Ufea Planat                               435         83           91        609               33.5         6.4         7.0        46.9
Power 6 Steam Gener'o 6 DIete'n           330         62          12S        517               25.4         4.8         9.0        39.8
Other Offettes                             48        102          199        349                3.7         7.8        15.3        26.8
Spares                                    221         tl           18        250               17.0         0.8         1.4        19.2
Construction Equlp. 6 Tools                28         18           37      -  83                2.1         1.4         2.9         6.4
Sub-total                               1,868        406          624      2.898              143.7        31.2        48.f       Z22.9
2.   Ocean Freight & tnsurance                      176          -            -        176               13.5        -            -          13.5
3.   Inland Hiandling                                 -        120           83        203               -           9.3         6.3         15.6
4.   Excise Duties & Taxes al                                               171        171                -           _          13.2        13.2
Delivered Cost of Equip. & Spares    2,044           526          878      3,448              157.2        40.5        67.5       265.2
5.   License & Engineering Services                 213          -          205        418               16.4        -           15.8 41.v
6.   Project Management & Insurance                  12          -          180        192               0.9          -                13.91
7.   Land and Site Development                        -          -          114        114               -           -           8.7         8.7
8.   Civil Works and BulIdings                      224         20          326        570               17.2         1.5       25.1        43.3
9.   Erection                                        27         15          185        227                2.1         1.2        14.2        17.5
10.  Commissioning Chargea                           14          -          114        128               1.1         -           8.8         9.9
It.  Township                                         -         20          217        237               -           1.5        16.7        18.2
12.  Power, Road & Road Links,
Constr'n. Facil's                             -        10          110        120                _           0.8         8.4         9.2
Base Cost Estimate (BCE), in            2,534        591        2,129      5,454              194.9       45.5        179.1      419.5
Physical Contingencies (51 of BCE)              44         10           35        89                3.4         0.7         2.7         6.8
Price Escalatton b/                            253         59          192       504               19.4         4.6        14.8        38.8
Total Installed Coat                    2,831        660        2,556      6,047              217.7        50.8       196.6       465.1
a/   Customs duty on imported goods for fertilizer projects was waived in March 1985.
tI  9.11 of Base Cost Estimate and Physical Contingencies.  Price Escalation is based on expected annual inflation rates,
international and local, of 62 in 1986, 6.82 in 1987 and 1988, 7.02 in 1989 and 7.11 in 1990.
Industry Departaent
june 1986



- 87 -
ANNEX 7-2
INDIA
COOPEKATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROIECT
Rehabilitation Componiit - CapStul Cost Estimate
Locl Purch se.                               Local Purchases
Indirect                                     Indt nct
Direct     Foreign       Local               Direct      Forelgn       Local
Imports   Exchange    C4 w"ent   Total   L morts    xehanste   Component           Total
-   --    s mllltio           --                     -0S$ dmllion -
A. Phulpur Plant
1.  Revamp of primary reformer                           39.8       7.5          40.3       87.6    3.061         .580         3.101      6.742
2.  Installation of urea hydrolyser                       4.4        3.9          15.1      23.4      .338        .300         1.162       14800
3.  Liquid effluents-improve quality/reduce quantity  -             2.6            7.1       9.7    -             .200         0.545        .745
4.  Energy survey                                         1.0       -              0.3        1.3     .077       -              .023        .100
5.  Ammonia plant equipment replacements                  2.8       0.4            2.8       6.0      .214        .030          .214        .458
6.  tilstlng boiler operational improvements              -         9.1           21.7      30.8    -             .700         r.667       2.367
7.  Synthesis gas drying with molecular slevea            8.3        3.3          10.3      25.9      .638        .250         1.102       1.990
8.  Inert gas generation plant and hydrogen storage   -              3.9           9.2      13.1    -             .300          .706       1.006
9.  Ammonia Storage Tank                                 45.2       3.2          37.1       85.5    3.483        0.850         2.855      6.588
Sub-total        101-         wX Tr3                Y83.      7.81        2.6          11.375      21C7M
R.  Kalol Plant
*.  Urea plant revamp for energy savings                 7.1        1.7           9.1       17.9      .547        .130         .697       1.37b.
2.  Primary reformer convection zone modif'ns            12.0       -             10.6      22.6      .923       -              .818       1.741
3.  Replacement of heat exchangers                       -           1.3          2.7        4.0    -             .100          .207        .307
4.  Pressure energy recovery by steam turbine             1.5        1.0          4.0        6.5      .115        .080          .304        .499
5.  Guard bed for low temp. shlft reactor                -          -             5.0        5.0    -                           .388       .388
6.  Mass spectrometer                                     1.4       0.3            2.3       4.0      .112        .020          .175        .307
7.  Raw water desslination                               12.0        1.0          16.9      29.9      .923        .080         1.297      2.300
8.  Urea plant desorber evaporative system                4.5       0.7            7.8      13.0      .346        .050          .601        .997
9.  Urea plant desorber modifications                     -          2.6          6.4        9.0    -             .200          .492        .692
10. Urea prill cooling system                             4.0       1.0           6.9       11.9      .308        .080          .532        .920
11. Inspectlon and analysis equipment                    11.1       -             8.9       20.0      .854      -               .687      1.541
12. Equipment replacemeats                              46.1       44.1         163.3      253.5    3.538       3.400        12.562      19.500
13. Ammonia storage tank                                 -         26.0          24.0       50.0    -           2.000          1.843      3.843
14. Molecular sieves and repiping synthesis loop          7.2       4.8          17.9       29.9      .554        .370         1.378      2.302
15. PSA based nitrogen generation plant                  -          1.8           3.2        5.0    -             .140          .245       .385
16. Urea superganules plant                               9.8       6.5          34.4       50.7      .75         .500        2.642       3.899
Sub-total              116.7      -              2                  t877        7g5          24.6        40.9
C.  Kandla Plant
1.  Pipe/pressure reactor modifn's                       16.9      10.4          31.3       58.6    1.300         .800        2.409       4.509
2.  Independent water supply scheme                      23.4       2.6          14.6       40.6    1.800         .200         1.125      3.125
3.  New product storage, bagging & handling
facilities                                       13.0       27.3          88.9      129.2    1.000       2.100         6.833       9.933
Subtotal           53.3       40.3         134.8     228.4    4.100        3.100        10.367      17.567
Total Base Cost Estimate  (OCE) a/                 271.5      167.2         605.9   1,044.6   20.888       12.860        46.610      80.358
Phyaical Continge- tea (1o0  of BCE)                27.2       16.7          60.6      104.5    2.089       1.286         4.661       8.036
Price Escalation                                    25.7       15.8         114.7      156.2    1.976       1.217         8.820      12.013
Total Installed Cosz c/                            249.5      199.7         781.2   1,305.3   24.953       15.363        60.091    100.407
*1  In 1985 prices.
b/  Average 13.62 of base cost estimate and physical contingencies, based on expected annual international and local inflation rates of
61 in 1986, 6.8Z in 1987 a*d 1988, 7.0S in 1989, 7.1S In 1990 and 4.0S thereafter.
c/ Includes US$23 million for customs and excise duties and taxes on total equipment purcbases.
Industry Department
June 1986



- 88 -
ANNEX 7-3
INDIA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated lltsbur4ement Schedules for Bank Loan al
(US$ million)
Aonla Component        Rehabilitatlon Component             Total
Year       Quarter        quarterly   Cumulative       Quarterly   Cumulative    !uarterly   Cumulative
1986      Up to Dec.        11.2          11.2                                       11.2          11.2
1987      Jan.-Mar.          5.3          16.5             .4            .4           5.7          16.9
Apr.-June         6.7          23.2             .5            .9           7.2          24.1
July-Sept.        7.2          30.4             .8           1.7           8.0          32.1
Oct.-Dec.         9.7          40.1             .9           2.6          10.6          42.7
1988      Jan.-Mar.         10.8          50.9            1.1           3.7          11.9          54.6
Apr.-June        12.0          62.9            1.2           4.9          13.2          67.8
July-Sept.       12.0          74.9            1.8           6.7          13.8          81.6
Oct.-Dec.        10.3          85.2            2.8           9.5          13.1          94.7
1989      Jan.-Mar.          8.6          93.8            3.8          13.3          12.4         107.1
Apr.-June         6.2         100.0            4.5          17.8          10.7         117.8
July-Sept.        4.7         104.7            4.9          22.7           9.6         127.4
Oct.-Dec.         2.5         107.2            4.7          27.4           7.2         134.6
1990      Jan.-Mar.          2.0         109.2            4.2          31.6           6.2         140.8
Apr.-June         1.8         111.0            2.8          34.4           4.6         145.4
July-Sept.        1.0         112.0            1.8          36.2           2.8         148.2
Oct*-Dec.                                      1.2          37.4           1.2         149.4
1991      Jan.-Mar.                                        .9          38.3            .9         150.3
Apr.-June                                       .8          39.1            .8         151.1
July-Sept.                                      .6          39.7            .6         151.7
Oct.-Dec.                                       .3          40              .3         152.0
a/ Disbursements for the Fertilizer Imports Performance Evaluation and Control Study Components not
included. They are expected to be completed by FY1988.
Industry Department
June 1986



- 89 -
ANNEX 8-1
Page I of 2
INDIA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Assumptions Used in the Financial Analysis
1.        The financial projections of the Project, in current rupees and
in line with IFFC0's fiscal years ending June 30 are provided for the Aonla
Component (Annex 8-3) and IFFCO as a whole (Annex 8-4) without the Project
(pages 1-3) and with the Project (pages 4-6). Revenues and applicable
costs have been escalated with inflation rates of 5.0% p.a. in 1985/86,
6.0% p.a. in 1986/87, 6.8% in 1987/88-1988/89, 7.0% in 1989/90, 7.1% in
1990-91, and 4.0% p.a. thereafter. The financial rate of return calcula-
tion of the Aonla Project (Annex 8-6) assumes a project operating life of
12 years (plus 6 months for the start-up fiscal year), and is calculated in
constant 1985 rupees.
a. Flinancing Plan and Debt Service
2.        The financing plan of the Project is detailed in Chaptet VII of
the Report. For debt service computation of the Aonla Component, it is
assumed that the Bank loan (US$112.0 million), the OECF loan (US$126.8
million) and the total GOI/cofinancing loans (US$109.6 million) for the
Project will carry interest at 14.0% p.a., with repayments beginning in
1990/91 and ending in 2000/2001. For the Rehabilitation Component, all
financing requirements are assumed to be met through debt, I.e., the Bank
loan (US$40 million), G0I loan (US$12.7 million), and local borrowings
(US$81.8 million) with an interest rate at 14% p.a.
b. Capacity Build-up and Revenues
3.        It is assumed thet the Aonla project will start commercial
production In January 1990, 63 months after commencement of the basic engi-
neering in October 1984. Based on an assumed 330 operating days per year,
production would achieve 65% capacity utilization in the first twelve-month
operating period, 80% in the second'period, and 95Z thereafter. In addi-
tion, and until full capacity utilization is achieved, production will
allow for a build-up of adequate product inventories.
4.        Revenues are in line with the above capacity utilization rates;
they are valued at ex-factory retention prices (Annex 8-2), excluding
government levy, excise duty, freight and storing costs, and dealers'
margin and distribution expenses not accruing to the Project entity. No
interest earnings are assumed for surplus cash. Ammonia sales are valued
at 90% of the urea sales prices.
c.   Operating Costs and Working Capital
5.        Production cost estimates, which are presented in the Attachment
are based on IFFCO estimates and are similar to those used for the Thal, MP
and other similar fertilizer projects. A 12-year straight line method is
used for computing depreciation expenses.



- 90 -
ANNEX 8-1
Page 2 of 2
6.        Working capital requirements are assumed as follows:
Accounts Receivable          60 days of sales
Inventory
Raw Materials
Natural Gas              3 days of purchases
Catalyst & Chemicals   90 days of purchases
Bags                   45 days of purchases
Work-in-Process            3 days of variable production costs
Finished Products         60 days of variable production costs
Accounts Payable
Natural Gas              7 days of purchases
Power                  30 days of purchases
Water                   30 days of purchases
Catalysts & Chemicals  30 days of purchases
Bags                   30 days of purchases
d. Taxes and Dividends
7.        The Project will benefit from (i) the use of the declining
balance depreciation method for taxable income calculation as per the local
income tax act; (ii) the unabsoxbed depreciation carryover allowance (the
loss-negative taxable income-in initial years being carried forward as
tax credit); (iii) tax holidays equivalent to 20% of taxable income for 10
years; and (iv) investment credit amounting to 252 of the plant and
equipment costs, which ie applied after the unabsorbed depreciation
carryover has been fully used. Income tax rate for the cooperative sector
is 40%.
8.        It is assumed that dividends of 6X of share capital will continue
to be distributed annually. With regard to new equity raised in connection
with the Aonla investments, dividends will be distributed beginning in the
third year of operation of the plant.
Industry Department
June 1986



- 91 -
ARME 8-1
Attacimant
INDIA - COOPERATIV  IFRRTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
AONLA - Financial Production Costs
(at 95X capacity utilisation in 1985 prices)
1.        At 95% capacity utilization, the Project wiII produce 423,225 tpy of ammonia (NH3) , of which 403,474 tpy will be
converted to 689,700 tpy of urea (0.505 ton of amwonia per ton of urea), and 19,751 tpy of asmonia will b* sold as surplus.
2.   Variable Costs
Specific       Ammonia         Spectfic          Urea           Total
Consumption    Production       Consumption      Production   Production
Unit Rate             Per ton of Mlii      Cowt       Per Ton of Urea      Coat           Coata'
(Re mtillion)                     ---(Re million)-- 
Natural Gas--Feedstock        Rs 1,652/1,000 Nca   1,002 Ncm             700.6              _               -            700.6
Natural Gas--Utilities        Rs 1,292/1,000 Ncm        39 mcm             21.3       230 Ncm             205.0          226.3
Purchased Power               as   550/HUH            0.036 Mi              8.4       0.024 MlW             9.1           17.5
Outies on Generated Power   Rs    5514Ml              0.107 MWH             2.5       0.073 M1H             2.8            5.3
Water                         Rs    70/1,000             27 M3              0.8 H3         8                0.4             i.2
Chemtcals                             -                   -                21.1            -                4.5           25.6
Bags                          Rs      5/bag               -                 -            20 bags           69.0           69.0
Total                                                                                                 290.8        1,045.5
Intermedtate Ansonia                                                (719.5)                          719.5
Total Variable Costs for Products Sold                                35.2                          1,010.3        1,045.5
3.   Fixed Costs
Labor                                                                      18.0                            32.0           50.0
Repair and Haintenance (1.51 of plant and equip. costs)                   46.2                             23.8           70.0
Insurance (0.5S of plant and equip. costs)                                15.4                              7.9           23.3
Depreciatton                                                             379.4                            195.6          575.0
Total                                                                459.0                           259.3           718.3
Intermediate Ammonia                                                (437.6)                          437.6
Total Fixed Costs for Products Sold                                   21.4                           696.9           718.3
4.   Total Production Costs for Products Sold                                   56.6                          1,707.2        1,763.8
Industry Department
June 1986



-92-                           ANNEX 8-2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
Urea Retention Price Calculation
1.        The urea recention price for the Aonla project is calculated as
per the formula enunciated by the Marathe Committee in November 1978. The
calculations are made for pricing periods of 3 years as follows:
(i)    Share capital used in urea production.  In each successive
pricing period, share capital is equal to that prevailing at
the beginning of the period.
(ii) + Retained earnings.
(iiI) - Capital employed outside the business and accumulated
surplus cash.
(iv) - Capital employed in the business. A lower limit has been
set for this capital employed and it cannot decrease below
share capital.
(v) x 25.2 return on capital employed.
(vi) + Variable and fixed production costs at 80X capacity
utilization related to urea production, with depreciation as
provided in the company balance sheet.
(vii) -  Ex-factory revenue to producer.
(ix) - Production volume of urea at 80Z capacity utilization.
(x) - Urea Retention Price allowed.
2.        As can be seen in the price retention schedule on the next page,
capital employed in business equals share capital from 1989/90. This is
because accumulated surplus cash exceeds retained earnings, and the
provision on the lower limit applies. Meanwhile increases in production
costs due to inflation tend to increase the retention price. The formula
proVides the Company a large cash flow during the initial years of
operations, declining thereofter. In fact, over project life, the
retention increases on ave.  at about 0.62 per year in current terms,
which is well below the assumed Inflation rates. The project's revenues
decrease at about 4..% per annum in real terms.



- 93 -
AU4U 8-2
nage Z or 2
ItIA - CWIMIWE FIITILIm INUU              PJECT
"APA=  aMGM   19 PRIiI F 
(in aillian of current rupa)
1983/P  ll"0  1"1091  1"1192  M1923  1994  I4194                  I9W9      1MM   IM          1918/9  199/00  2000J01  200uo2
Share Capital                               294       22            2952       2 952       2        2         29       2952     295       25       29       2952
Rbtaintd Earnings                                                       145       149      1405     4775      4m       475      71A       714      7166     8742
Sub-total                              248      252       2        4447      4447     4447     773      772       728    10118    10tl8   10118    11714
Srplus CAt                                                              1580      15       150      5113      5118     1118     7823      7123     723      949
Capital Employed                            2948     2952       2       2 m92     29       22       29        2952     2952     2952      2952     2952     2952
25.2632 Ratqrn oa CWita                      745      746       746      741       746      746      746       746      746      746       746      746      746
aiWable Production Co%ts                    1300      1399     1422     1453      1511     157      165       1700     176.8    139       1912     191      2068
Fired Preduction Costs                       767       71       7W       793       107      816      826      336       36       857       849               609
Intarnt an S-T Daht
ltrnest an L-T Obt                           190      616       571      507      44        330      317      254       10       127        63        0        0
Total Slas Value to Realize                 3102     3542      3528     35       3508      3514     3524     353       3551     356      3590      3616     3423
Urea ProductionlW0  tons) a                  5El       51       581       581 5111               511 591       51       5 51      581      581      5Lt      581
btantion Price(h/tmn)                       5339      609      6072     6032      6036     64       60        65       6111     614       4110     6223     5891
(UnItas)                     411       449      4        464       464      465      467       468      470      473       475      479       453
a at 80O cpacity utilization
Industry Department
June 1986



CM   IV       a    *     t      is is    is         a r    *   tit   rit    r                                                  _    mm
411   t75   *193  911   *'    1W    9W    va   ra    rg1   i i    rtn   ri                                            313f13
ru    Ila   ra    ta    I's   *dA r  ra  re                St re   IS Vafl   rn                                       mm    5         n
r5    4     91*   *11   t16   OW   Ila SW    l-i   It'   rit            S   ra                                              91WaiJ   =
EDA)I11.114*
43   I*    31    of   I."    iu  Ot    31   UN    ml   a               3 at   a                                            da  _Pe
"I   UT   u5    In    Ut   4Ul   to    UV           l   tt    at                                                                  Popo
U;    n    U       i     i      a;    i       t    n    in a          nt   a                                                 _     plA3
ns 3t       m      a5    at55  13    3      111    l t 4t    11    3    3                                              q 
ml   so    gm    no   ani   an   s          I      am    mu   VA    a       a                                                       3
9    e      n      at    5    on    In    OK        1    at    tt1   *1       t                                              PM
*     0     19    13    93    1        32 13       9*    S      IS    91                                                                                     I 
*     9     3      lii   943   13   ttS   #S        5    Ut   Ut   919   45                                                  9W 1-
9W14
Sn^  332   t3  mx   03 11     so 3t5               *15;  313 Ut  l   ox u11                                                 114 bl  a
SIlt  9111  131   8*1   9591  *191   131   131   133   091   *33   0                             lI~~~~~s 1041011PJd -4
am    no   ow    am      $Dm us    on   ,     turn       ml   121   til                                                 '83 833S5 1919
aS  at  a   a   0   o   a   n   0   a   n   a   it                                                                   |       I  lps
Iml U   l       W5        s    415   45    45    45    45    4        m31    a3411 1
O     t6t    *St   9*    II    3h    1*    5C   3t   913        3-8         11                                                 r I   -
3=1    03    33    D1    tI    0      33    (II   63    45  *19    33    1*                                            4'St9
;   cs  n   *   "   b   n   s   s   s   ss a a   a   a- ss  az-
SL   o1   DI tS  lS             m  U          t   tit fl        m  Zt  Zt                                              A10113110111
asl   3t      1    3      *     a4       S a       a     At   ti    U       a                                               _we i A1
gmt Pl
Ing    m           m 1    r    SW    Si   WuL   sIa   an    m         ml   at                                          '. $wvJ4 PR191
l   81   of   Mtt   tt?   in    33    £11   to    4             9     a     a                                                     di
a     a     3      11    4      b a          *    a      *     S      a     a1 1ISPI
t           f t    1     I         I     I         £     8      I     I     I                                                     A1M
it  a              fit n  tT    t        a  a      a      S a  61    I                                                  in
Ii    11    1*    ff    **      t    *      *      it   IL    a       a     ii                                              t!P
UK   1111  II      4 1 am l i         4w    4u   4       9b    I       I    la                                               3319
1 to    41    3          II to   t i   2    Ot   41                n £  419                                                  338183
91    1*   3*    13    0        91* I         S          SS 45    13        Sll 99    31                                     11
31   4113   ICl   S3-t tf       1          U1 31 l1    mlll O4    3                                                        _J 
to    to3   an 1      Om3   to3   33    811   991   SI    isi   41    11
on5   399I  fit   41   in3   on3   IN    OK6   in    69    1W    a95   a
to1                                   as 5    39 33   39 93   on9   lat   36    1199  a59   56
im ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s w mmm    
M 114            1am   114   1m   11  NW   "to   NW   I1   1 1119 am
49514359313356103 mNE r~~                                      LU-   311 ItNSZ a      ^ X a tt*
Wa   rs   ra    rs  ra    11%   i'm   ru    #1V                                               A~~~~~~~~~~~~~31111 1391301
am                                                               Wm    ow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3W'
43   40   4W    411   011   93   491   491   OW   R91   l.ai 531   46*                                                 8333,VI?IIUMI
-" 31KB 01*45     b1911W   163445339    01143119*01454*35131116  315
_'W l-t
ZtH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 138*  8313t9 9IIt 1
mum 'mamma ammem
smm    anus wu
^~~-5                                - s^rgrtjs



_ 91 
AM= 8-3
2 ef 3
Ill1t - CWMtIWE PNILIZER  ItIl FECI
APO. pNCT  m     miEM FM FLO ITBEIUT
(in sillims of cert rup")
19|54/15  3085/3     6/57  1W/  113   ttU/V            IWODt;   1 /11#2   iSM  l931     19/5   91%   1996M     191908  I9/9  IWf/00  200101  2001102
lbt Into"  ftv  Tame                                                               55      m1       103n     m2l      1271    1au        11in      597       34       B        673      645       106
0.yciatatl                                       -2fS                                      5751      575      55       575       575      555                         575      575255 m  s   s  ss    291
........................................... _._ 
lntgtnd Cals   mrataon                                                             4       1155     till f1  1             I    U 7I   t176       3412     1415      3J8      1247     1220       "9
Sh#e Cpi tat                        164      311      341      1124      6        W           4
1-1 3bt                                      5        123    -1154      17        70 
H- Debt
Total Mtt                                    S40      5        1f5      1SA       749        27
Tot1 tloinc.s                       144      f51      34       2273     2197     tat       11US     16t      14       154       353      1760     1472      1415     1334     1247     1220       W7
IPLICATIaIS:
fi.te skats                         1N       3St     664      27       2197      15         31
Loan Rapaymta
L-T Dbt                                                                                 22        453      453      43        453      453      453       43       453      43       22
Total  paymnts                                                                              22       453      453      453       453      453      453       43       453 4f3           226
DivIdina                                                                                             177      177      ITT       177      177      177      177       177      m77      In        177
Othur Appropriations
Oang. in Ibrking Cpital                                                           343      S06       166       79        14      iS         6       17        18       20       21       22       -25
Total 0ppitatian                    164      Ot       164     2273      217      18%6      tO        7%       7O9      64        6     5           647       64B      649      ill      42        12
Surplas/defictts)                     0        0        0         0        0       m3       423      514     1144       2       1192     1114      a2        766      75       5n       I94        45
kec. Suploa(fizutsl                   0        0        0         0        0      143       76      190      2724     3926      5115     622      7057      7323     I555     9155      949    10793
lIet Srvict Ctvewap
A. Idet Sinvic
Principal R ay.ats                                                                    226       453      453      453      453       453      453      453       453      453      226         0
Intat   ~Ayte                                                                290      616      573       507      444      33        317      254      190      12         63        0        0
Tota 2l                                                                            43     ton        9        S   09  333        770      706      643     5w0        516      226        0
S. Fuds Available After
Ta. Befoe. Interest
lit laconai fter taa                                                          sa      SU       1036     1279     1271     1262      115      897      84O       310      673      645       706
ftprecistion                                                                233       57        5n       515      5n       575       57n      s7       57       SS        57       575     2D1
Interest Payts                                                               290      6it      57l       50t      444      310      317       254      190       12        63        0        0
to                                                                      6U3      17t      2183      2361     275      2217      2077    1t25    1US         1511     1311     1220      W7
C.  ebt Servire Cwrp O(U                                                          2.2       2.3      2.1      2.5      2.6      2.7       2.7      2.4       2.5      2.6      2.5      5.4      1l.A



96                                                                                     - -  3
ali 95w m            . _WU mm  39 7
(is  illis, of cwTmt rgil
19941115  t       117 1MM      7w*   Iwo9   131 "0 11019   5 9IM    tm991          3 1934  19194115 t1919   117  1911 1                9  199100  2OX/OI  w250
Cwu   louts
1410                                                                                6       t2        13       U3       14        4        15       IS       U6       57        17       le       1s
Amovots kijaMsd                                                                   2        5          19      17       7        n78       70       73       7        M79        0       795 NO 
1nvffiey
am Uatmrlas                                                                     i2       29       33        79       41       42        44       46       43        S1      51        53       16
I a-ftrei                                                                        5       U         24       Is       16       56       12        17       to        it       20       #0       21
Fiui       nots                                                                too      23       211       29       311      32        33       350      364      378      39        49       426
Total lstoy                                                                    III      274      327        03      347      312       3        413      430      447      461      4*        50
Total braent buts                                                                 3                 1low     t14      It      1174      11u2     1211      23      1         IM       102      1 tf7
rln tubh                                                                         34           1    5U to0   2724     39t      51te      62       7        7 tl35            9H5        94     to07
Fised lts
Gres  Fring Assts                   264     tIS      1        4t57         3     7106     71       7ISt      7137     7t13     713      7137      73       713      7        7137      7137     7tJ?
kc. hpr.iatieo  I hat.                                                            2I       862      1437     211      25       3561      37       4310 4_            55      6H34 6_9           68
Vat Find htb s                   14      IO1S      iON9    417       62        31t    62        5tO       5t126    4511       7? 7    342      27       23        W5       5104 t29           230
W0Th6 ItMIS                         164  l 015    t19         4157      63  7$ 20         76t      3         G        9635    1029    1026    1109        113      114W tt5135    5t179    123
Csfrtat Ustilitln
kmt    Payable                                                                     15       36       43        47       4        51       53        55       57       60       62        65       67
t- IDebt
Carrut Part. Of L- ft                                                             22       453      423       453      453      453      453       453      43       42       226
Total Ct   rt Ufdiitin                                                            242      49       46        50       502      504      50       5so      510 5)      2      2111       65       a
Total L-t lt                                 540     1063     2217     3192      4275     349    3M3        294       240      203      £33       5132      679      226
Capital                           164       475      816     1940     251       24       2I       2952     2952      2952     25 2       5 25     5          2     252     2           52      2t52
btatls  Evinp                                                                      5S      63      149      2597      360      4775    57          3      7166     779      824      9762      9291
Total Edtp                         .164      475      *U      1940      2561     300      3      4447       54        MS4       722    1V        tNt    1011       £0751     1246    11714    1214
W07AL L15LITIES S, tItTY            164     1t05     tO7      4157     635       10        92      S9        692    9635    129    10826   5106    113             1t4      155    t17         12310
Bati.
hit to ftDi4IitpI btie            0.00      0.13     0.57     0.53      0.60     0.59     0.52     0.43      0.35     0.27     0.21     0.15      0.11     0.06     0.02     0.40      0.00     0.00
Ctrrant Ratio                                                                     1.5      1.3      2.1       2.3      23       2.3      2.4       2.4      2.4      2.4      4.4      20.2     19.1
Indusdt De.pstmt
Juae 1986



IFFW-~ PRJ8CS  rAo  STIU    OeM  TI-6=
(ing itli4||- of curr=t               I_
Aetwd
18/8WIIS     b SSY51    ttlJ8 W91?8  I"Ml   tt/l   1w0191 11tt/9   l"PR  tEl/  'M                19"1%   iWt?  4"71%  tWll/9  19"/00  2000/01 2001/02
Re.eauff~~~~~57                   "It    611 7    7159  m72  *ttl    8l                906      9I    %U         ItM      IOI 16   t11>             1175    122U    1ImS    IM4
Catatlysts a Cbcis              37        q       32       56       e       is        AB      ?2       n3       7a       St       S        as      9n        n5       4       0        tOl
-    h.                              286      2"      3U 33Sw                    Ult *97  42  45   479                      - 54      36       saa      wl       6M       (At      6        716
StokAtl 4jat                  -i30      -2e     -117      w?4    -174    -174      -1r4    -174      *l1   74      -    t74 -t74 -17  14    -t74           -174    -174    -1U4    -17+
-_ -----  -_--- --- - -
Total er Xt ales sw ssts    5 7 09  In456       596S 7"           6a47    s s       lo      744   s e  U        4   S80          We    llO555              "SO   IOM        10ar111
Fused Costs
L*or  IS     d -b tsa                   14U      IH       157      16s      1al      tss     205      215      224      233      142      252      UW       2n2      293     2"t       304
Ibact anact 6 Ib  ir           Nt8    124        121      130      140      153      u67     l75      101      Igo      In       20t      214      223      232      241     250      260
12sitr na                       4J       43       47       51      55       6e       63       6S       71       74       Ty       go       85      St       S0       93       s7      lo
grciatias                      30S      31       in5      2a       276      3U9      3te     284      14       14        4 t      o       toU lO   O0 l0     Be      of
eth rs                         165      l75       m7      I"e      2Ci      2Z0     231      243      255      UtS      21t      2a       2"       M m        no      6       $49     3t:
total Fixe costs               76       BC0      Bit      7s       a"4     s3       976      S7       on       8S7      927      9t4      N7       nat      St    1033       SSI    1030
Total Prdctin Costs              5070    5mt       U112    650l    6sl    7s0    seu           8415    sts       SOU      s4n       740   tOl33   10S¢1   IOI4    113BS    11767   1224C
Corwat# Obewa  Ch                  45       32       *l       U4       n        so      53       St       Sl       tO       U3       tS       6e       n1       n        76      79       a3
Obtin!l Incom                     t2a      516      6U       614      6U4      4       3S       ss       5        55S      5?9      6"       668      t        ?J?      7u2     oh?      IN?
Randal Chwp                       lei      241      237      m        237      U0      m7       223      1ss      141      IV       11        S        as       7l      s7       U3       2S
Ob    lacm                      44       *7       43       as      104      103     197      l73      Ili      107      101       e4        s       83       n7      72       70       73
ItcoZ klfoel Tme                  "I       32       480      464     34       40 we       307            4 z      525      M54      677      6SI      69      74S      ns       87       "S*
lnrm  TYfs                        129      12S      1U       19s     2os      IBe      1s       164      20       2e       m        251      2^3     274      m        3U1      355       m
lnoso After Tam                   362      19n      314     2ts      3a       229      2C       m7       m        313      332      376      ms       U1      ut6      4        53e      st
hubda                              54       56       s7       sB       3S      tO       U1       t7.      U 63s  64         6e 66             Si       fi               7e       n        n2
.Tummd Etliws                     3es      IVr      257     al1      279      ttS      141      sl       2Xs      25l      267      31C     325      3U       m"       397      467      494



AM=K 6-4
murn - 00A?    TLRnUvm raw
(in 31110  of currot twis)
Att41a
tSIIU85 imS1b5 ISI"W t4N1/11 timeO lWtS0 lmo" '.?I/ in )mwm t tm rMM 1997/i tM iMteo 200D/01 2001U02
SOURM:     ~            Acua
Incmm Altar Ta"                      362       193       314       209      33        228       202       m        292       311       332       376      395       414       44       467       539       5U6
Depreciat(io                          301      315       320       2W7      27t       319       318       Z4      t1        t1         1o        l00      1O0       10ot6      SO        to        a         0
lotanil COb   ration                  V7       509       0n        53        014      547       520       03       430       459        11       47t      41        S14       52a       147     5s        5U
Sae Capital                           1        20        22        22        22       22        22        22       22        22        22        22       22        22        22        22       22        22
8HI Copital For Wne                    70
L-T Ddt                                34     17        171       173      332       100        48        4
TOTAL SMS                             791      09        832       731     %98        60        50        733      458       481       49        498      517       S3u       148      569       160       S08
flflfltn..nn..*ftmn lfLfSl S SSS                    ZS   WA__            _                                                     fl.tfh._ taStrflflflazfltflnzflnSf
OPLICATINs:
CApital Ewneditures                    90       167      171       173      332       202        48        48        48
Auola                                 144
Lan ROtpaymSts
L-T Dbt                           221       228       202       182      ISO       146                   7       37       100       100       100      100       10o       10o      100       100       100
F-T Debt                                                                                     3        411
Total Repsaeyets                     221       227       202       182      158       146       329       448       37       lO       100       10O      100       100       100       100      100       100
livieod                                54       50        57        58        59                 01        62        63       64        U1        46       67        08       6a         70        tt       72
oth  r lpw pritat:ae                  230      230         6         0         6        0         6         0        6
Cbha   in oarkiq Capital              430        15      251       128       148      18        14        130       t27      179       is        198      207       218       223       240      252       204
TOTALA 9LICAtiS                      1159      702       687       547       703      597       59        700      241       343       31        3        374       386                410       423       430
Swplustlkficitl                     -3u8        -7       145       14       25         72         0        13       177      13B       145       135      143       IN5       ISn       159      137       152
Dt Service Coerwp
A. ebt Service
Principal bepay ts             221       228      202       182       M1        140      329       448        37       1o       ItO       100       t0o       1oo      100       1OO       t00       100
Intereot Paymts                UIl      241       237       235       237      2U        277       22        155       141      127       113         9       85        71        57        43       29
Total                       402      40        439       417      39        409       00m       071       192      241       227       213      19        185       171       157      143       129
L  Furds buleble
Dt Incm  Atr Tans              32        193      304       29S  38             228      202       379       m         3U       332       37        35       414       4406      47        538      500
Dpreiatien                     309       315      325       W         270b      319      318       24        144       144      144      IO        1tO      100        sO        go         0        0
Inteet Peputs                  181      241       237       25        237      263       277       223       In       141       127       113                 e B       71        37        43       29
total                      852       749       870       "7       eSI        tO       797         6      591       600       603       589        4       5S        597      604       5B1       59f
C.  ebt Servic Coverape (5IA          2.1      1.0       2.0       1.8      2.2       2.0       1.3      1U         3.1      2.1       2.7       2.8      3.0       3.2       3.5      3.9       4.1       4.6



-'9--
tNDI - ~CFUATY! 1IILIZU 25856 IROflT
(Ia aillt   Of cuTmt TV")
1984185   9134  1903   19378  1"           9  1IW9   101t  19 2  t191     1934  1n9   199%   199s9   1l0                                  o                o 190    00/01o  2011002
LurrLOft #Mts
QW#tiqCob                            3*7      190       190      1le       t9       190       1*       19t       19"      1*        1I0      190       I"       1"0       I"0      1tO       190       190
4kOutis lecqb3e 1Zlt                                   1270     14        1507     M15       14       19        1158      10          4      IS       2028     2091      214      2242      l21      2403
hbwtorv                             14t9 16            1919     2110     2252      2404     21        AU2       24   2t U 73       35       3142      3M       34        3592     3157      1928     4107
otbms                                44       641       432      709        724     732       U        7 m        5       U         9ID   n8          1066     1134      1211     12"       1375      144
Total Gerlnt Asash                  3713     3SW    422t        4445      473      4t9       503      5291               5M        Wi?t7  U4 4t                   3      713      7478      1814  8W16
Suplus  kh                                              145      329       594       1        664      49        474     t014    t15         29       14       15is      17       18%       2033     2105
Alnl                                 164      ti4       164      164       164     I         164      164       164      144       14       14        t44      14        144      144       164       164
Invastamat                           333    1too       1075     0os1      1017     1093     10        1105      1111      ll       1111     till      1t1l     t111      1t1l     till      tttl    1111
Vined ksets
Sros  Fi.ed bAsts                  3S7       3304      375      41        44D      4SS2      4730     4173      43       4026      4326     4326      432      412 4 824          43z 4              42
kc.  ugctiatltca    kwt.            1651     196       2291     25sB    33         3152      3470     375       35       40        *t       48        47       447       47       4647      447      447
--t Fixed   wts                     198S     1838      1684     1590    1t4        I50       1210     102S       927      73        A9       S39       439      39        2        17        179       179
TOTAL ASSE1TS                        141     70        7239     7609     3144      a3       1227      32        SW0    3S3         90       93        M1      t1IS3  104Jo       1023    U1301    1i
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                    9U3      1017      1078     144       1215     t         1347  t 40         144      1527      t592     160       1?t       I0O5     1i32     I92       2046     2139
S-T Sbt                              733      740       74        40       74       74        411
Cvrent Part. d  L-T hOt              223      202       132     t15        14         0        37       St       100      100       100      tO1       100      100       100      100       tOO        0
others                               477      N5       559       589       55       576      502       5S2       60      i40 40              44        60       60          6       06       60S       0
Tatal Currst Lailities              24I1     2604    219        263      249       2603     2297      2003      2iW      2233     2298      :        2437      2511      21       268       2752     274U
Tota  L-1   0t                      a2n       79        7S2      79       93       10£03     1094     1105      101  05                      t5        605      535       405      S5          5      203
Equity
IOr. Capital                         92       992     1014      1041      1053     IS6       1102     1124      2146    t116       it"9     1212      US3      1256      1273     130       1322     134
bt3e  ef Easiep                     2D40     2677     293       3145     3424      3592      3S33     405       427      43        47   5U10          S        5731      6158     65        7022     751t
Total Equty                        S512      3669    3D         4181     4482      472      480       5174     55        5908     59V7      63        4        7         7436     7355     3344      OM60
ITASL LIUILITIES I EOUt1           4741      7044     723       760      34         13U     3224       282     s0        o4       90e  990           9711    10053    0t429    10023        1tl01    11004
Ratios
Mit to lDbt4ptyl Ratio              0.19     0.1U     0.17      0.1      0.1       0.19     0.3       0.10     0.14      0.14     0.12      0.10     0.0       0.07     0.05      0.04     0.02      0.02
Iwrwst latin                         1.4      1.        1.6      1.7       1.7      1.9      2.2       2.4       2.5      2.6       2.6      2.7       2.7      2.7       2.3      2.3       2.3      3.0



- 100 -
R7 1 t 1150: 1t12 10!R ttnt            STA! OMU  133 1'OJC?V
£cgus:                               (to10 na oU1 fl    651245  flq*a)
198i8   1985/8   1966p   twin8  19318   193919   190-191  199119   119219   193194  1994/95  I19694   1996197  1997198  19981    199100  200010   2001103
Roytmiu                              5743     "11       6821      7159      1712     9410    1177*    13261    1379         14144    14510    1489       I530     1512      16172    1664       17132    1739
Vie,abIo Casts
Raw  attrals                     3772      3793      4W                 14 1       20 l  70 71           7     7931      824       87       8921       M1       94       10035     043U    lltSI    11208
Pow, Fuel I Mater                  344      433         2       42)      43        ay        840       94       9RS      12        106      1112     1157      1203      121      1301      13$3     1407
Ctalysts   Chtesarlt               37        59        52        a        60       7n                  too       1)5      120       125      1J       13S       140       146      I5        t15      t64
Iqs                               284       29        343       Mt9      3W7       460       532       s75      612       61        M61      68        n1        744       774       805      837       170
others                           -130       -20      -114     -174      -174       174      -114     -174      -174      -174      -174      -174     -t1.   -174         -114     -t14      -174      -174
total   ariahle Cnts             4309      454       529      5706  U147          7197    I3s   s        7                      J412  98    10259    1 7  IlO W  11t 52   205 U2   12520    1301    I555
fixed Cuts
Lam- &  r,ffts                     138      145       144       I5        169      217       28        281      29        30s       31t       m0       34        357       m         3         402      418
uIntmn.Ke i Rpazr                  1oo      124       121       130       140      20        267       27        29        0        315       32        341      35        39        384       399      415
Insurance                          40        43        41       51        55        75        9a       103      107       fIt       116       121      12        I         134       141      147       153
Deprecnition                      309       31        325       247      27        401       893       on9       84       a94        94        0       850       es0o      830       830     7r         465
Othrs                              16       175       1n        190      204       220       231       243      255       245       274       211      29        310       32        356      349       36
Total Fixed Cuts                  761       eo0       elk        95               1319      137       1164     1841    1t79        19s1       91s     19        2002      202a      2016     2047      1*14
Iotal ptwuttion Cests               5070      53        R2       6561      6"9       8515    10112    10732    11315    11737    12178    12592    130            15        140    14596    15014    1S69
arpwrate Dvhud Csts                    45       32        41        44        47       41        so        90        96      100       104       30B       II?      117       N21       126       131       137
O4ertz1 Inca,                         4n       514       414       614       474      834      1584      2446      231      2301      2M9       219       2119     2044      1990    191        1927     18OU
Fin ncial  urwgu                     lt       241       237       235      237       554       8s4      1040       899      794       us        53       478       373       27        142        57       29
Other lncm    Ajustats                 44       47        43       8a        104      183       197       173       114      107       101        94       8e         3        77        72        10       75
Inca  Bef/rc Tan                     491       322       480       444      541 4s      3       m        1579     1603      1621      141       174      1m        1754      IO        182      194       1932
toees ra                              129      129       16        Mff      203       180       INS       14       207       210       m         3        413      6a5        719      8a4       932       835
Inct   Aftr Taxes                    342       193       314       2U       338       285       1        1415      139      1411      1420      1387     1117      1079      1081       965      1008     It97
Divdan                                 54       56        57        ss        59       4O        61       239       240      241       242       243      244       245       246       247       248      249
ktaind Ericsp                         soe      137       257       211      279       223         2      1176      1154     114       1178      1143      873        34       34        n17       160      84



- 101 _
AN4
-  8-4
INIA -  OOUAnE U ZLXZ  INUSTRty PROJECT`
111Cc  PROJECTED mUNs now  mTATD8N  (WI  THz PROEC)
(i .lliu of curmit rupee)
14SSU  t395        1,4167  3907/   168189  I9/190  3990MM    3193192  I9V993  1993/94   4199 5  19959   319 97  I 9   199Sf     199910   2000101 XOi200(
U-CES:                                                                 -                                                          -    -   -
l1nw  MAter lam                      342       1         314       2f4      131       21        1        14t5     13        1413      3420      3W7      111       1079      I01        965     106       '091
Owe actitn                            309      319       35         U 241   2"        m0        893       BP        69       64 6E       4       690      650       6         6         S6O       150      44g
lnath-la  Cub   WA                   61        SS        U9         3       44          0      3        22        22        234       2311     22        1966      I92       1910      1794     115       13
Shu  Capita1                          106      33        2A        949      394       409        26        22        22       22        72        22       22        22        22        22        22       Z
t-tSt~~~~~~~~~~~~3    "T l0                     5    U              S U4 4                        ie.                                    o         o         o        4  
L-Tflebt                               34      11         5       1441     u38       1499       42         1                        0              0         0        0                   0        0         3
TOTAL  m013E1                        611      t54       I641     246       39 4       27S      2S30      2614     2312      2326      23       22        19tS      1951      1932      IS16     t6        15.
ICIIiATlOI:
Calptal .3pUitodt                     244    t303       11        25695    3010      ti6       433        7         48         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        4
Loan 3hpayet
L-T  abt                          223       226       202       162      ISO       146       226       689      46        152       752      152       152       752       75        752     592        I0
-r Odet                             0         0         0         0        0         0       32S       411        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         1
Totala  aynnts                        22       226       202       162       196      146       95        300       669      7S2       752       t52       752      752       752       752      524       301
Dividend                               54       54        5         51S       S9       60        41       239      240       241       242       243      244       245       246       247      248       24
Otber ApprWit:ios                     230      236         6         6         f        6         6         *         6        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0 o
Choe jn Nrkmtg Cpital                 430       15       251       126       146      526        52       302      206       393       203       213      224       236       24        2U1      214       23
TOTAL APPLICATIOK                   1319      I39       1613      2959     33b3      23        173706    3720      I19      l6        1197      124      122tl    1233       1246      320      104        5S
Surplul{lhflcit)                    -36         -7        32        27        15      414       422       SS4     1122      1140      1136      1050      768       lie       666       556      732       "9
kc. Serplne
ebt Srrvice Cwrap
L. Debt Service
Irindcpal 3ayn ts             22t       226      202       162       t5o       346       555     1100       669       752      752       752       192       752      752        52       S26       10
Iotert Peynts                  163      241       237       225       237       Su4      S94      1040       699       194      6S        533       476       m        26        162        57       2
Total                       402      469       439       417      3n        700      1449      2140      156      1546       441  I 335         1230     1125      1039       934      562       12
S. Faods Available
fet Inrw After Tan             342       193      314       269       33        23        163     1415      13946     I14      1420      1381      3117      1079    IS6        965      1006      109
hractiton                      309       315      329       267       271       607      893       659       694      69S469              650       S50      S50       830       B30       750      46
1ntset Paymats                 lo6      241       237       235       237       554      S94      34o        69       794       668       563       470      m         247       162        57       2
total                       65       749       i76       771       651     1444      2569      3314      3169     306       3002      2619     2444      2301      2177      1956     1615      159
C. Dflt SerVice Cor4ag  (a/1U        2.1       1.6       2.0       1.6      2.2       2.1       1.6       1.5      2.0       2.0       2.1       2.1      2.0       2.0       2.1       2.1       S.3     12.



- 102 -
64
of 6
STA - ci                      !HMMU WWW-!EC
(in at41   of d         eat  we)
Actual
£981415  1           s 1984191    91188  918189  1989 tn    1013990191 91192  £921m    193194   94l1     MM9   1 19?I"?9 71919   199100  2400101 2001102
Cnrrmt Astsi
Opnratian Cub                        307      I"0      10          0       190      19t        J2 0         203             4      204       205      2         214       207      201       20       209
acDbt, RkeiYale                     1254     1301      1370     tIl       1507     1820      223      24t7     25        259       13       M2       2513      2011      295s    3037       3121     llbl
lvuotuty                            1749     185      1919      2110     2252       521     21        2955     310£      3241     33        359        9       365      43        421       4411     4610
thhs                                 448      141       b2       lot       724      132        95      715        2       ON        9       100       If 1       3iU     11       1290      15       1£416
Total Correut Asets                 315      3995     4221      444*5    4M        52SW      U923         6350   67114      :m 7192          MS        M       004      01        9155     911       9
urplus Cb                                                32      s1         13      417       90      £04       29       4*        504      42        702M     773       824      G1        9713    10709
Inestwt                             83       10R       1015     1081    t101       1093      £00      £105      111£.    tttt      Uttt     t1U       11ti£    Ut1       tt11     till      ttt      tttt
F7ud Rusts
ksr. Fuld Aseits                    3801     4819     5918      9503    115J13     3159    1353    13665    £13    13713    £3113    13713   I£313                13711    £13    13713    13713    13511
kcc.  pratiation & hut.             1651     16,    2291        258      284       340      4332      5192     65         97       7872     8722      92    1042        1125t    12080    12£0    1324
let Fixed ksets                     2150     29        3427    5S45    8619        970        2    0 473 7n2             A3          0      491       414      39        242      £132       88       431
TOTAL ASSES                        6741      7917     055    1150          512   1U56       17192    IM       I8M3    I£32    I194        139930    2805    2225    240         201      20822   21612
Cret   Liabilities
Accounts Payable                     963     1017      1078     £144     1215      IW        1383     1441      51       1576    i1         1713      1116     182       192      2024      2111    m2
FlO t                                733      t4        740      740      140       740       411        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Carreat Pwt. of L-T Oet              228      202       12       IS        146      226       689       8       752       152      152       752       152      752       152      52        140        0
Ottes                                477       s5       559      59        598      574       502      562       604      60        606      6         60       64        604      606      6*        66
Total Current Ueilitiatjs 40£                2604     239       2631     269       20       295       269      289       23        M        3071     3144    3220         00      315      2817      27
Total L-t ktt                       83       1333      190"     322      54        672         7      6095     5343      4591      309      307      23        153       831       305       205      205
Epity
gr  ECaital                          972     I13       153      2542      23        34       30       39        3414     344      343       3488     350 2 S   324      354       3W        35       3612
htainsd Earono                      2540     2477     2934      3145     3424        4       4369     5545     670£    M1          94      10191    £1014    II£8       £273     13450    £42o    £5
Total Eqaty                        3512      390      44u7      sw       639 sm s   77                         10111    11307    12U       13672       6      15422    £79    1ltO3   3780          18670
TOTAL   A81LI£-IES I RQUT7          4741     7917     89M      11530    14512       5       £7191    IM1    1B3         112    194         1        200       20225              20419    2022    21682
Ratios
hOt to (Odtftity) Rbtio            0.1       0.25     0.30      0.36     0.46      0.49     0.46      0.41     0.35      0.29     0.25      0.08     0.14      0.09     0.05      0.02     0.01      0.01
Current Ratio                        1.6      1.5       1.6      1.7       1.7      3.8      2.0       2.4      2.3       2.4      2.4       2.4      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.8      3.2       3.4
laduSt1Y Depart -nt
June 1986



- 10 -3
8         tA #   t cu t    S           FIIWIT 81 3  FOR FR IAL 1ATE  rW ETII
tin n211i   of cUltat ISSS pVcS
1984/13  190S/U  1996/07   MISS 1919  1989/90  t 9   I"11/   t2     tM19/94  1994/5  39/96  t19979?  1997/98   "81" /                   19/00  2000Ot 2001/02
Capttol Roisrcux USIsd
Capital Cost                      -64    -776       -Ut   -"95    -176    -_39           -22                                                                                               SS4.3
licrus to lekmag  apitol                                                       -252     -348     -110      -50                                                                             7&0.B
TOWa   -                    -.16     -176     -91    -1945    -1576      I2       -370     -1t0       -50        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        O       f131
Fisnieal Vlta of Praduoctip
Ura                                                                             "2      2         2550    244       25        4       233      2         202     2128    208        99      tWll
Asia                                                                             24       St        6        68       66       43       61       59       57       55       53       51       47
Total                                                                     951     22U      215t. 2-12     261            21      4       2M       27!11             2111    20I4      18
FiNciat VNiabl Cohst
atural Su for
Faistt-2 -2                                                                          -300    -674    -701    -70I    -701    -701           -70I      701    -701    -701       -701      -701
Utilstin                                                                     -90    -203       -226     -226     -226     -226    -226      -22      -22t             -226     -2-2     -226
VA-total                                                                 -u       -m       -        -927      927      -7       -2       -927     -927     427      -97      -927     -9
Pourdskternal)                                                                    6      -13       -16      -18      -t8      -18      -t8      -t8      -18      -18      -18      -18      -18
Psrlltuntal)                                                                     -2       -S       -5        -s       -5       -5       -5       -5 -5             -5       -s       -s       -s
Vater                                                                             0       -l       -I        -I       -l       -1       -l       -I       -1       -1       -1       -1       -I
Catulysts t Uoscals                                                              -9       -20      -24      -26      -26      -26     -2        -26      -26      -26      -2      -26       -26
bSa                                                                             -24       -3       -4       -9       -9       -69      -9       -a       -9       -9       -69      -69      -69
Smlling Expoitou                                                                -19      -45       -        -54      -52      -9      -4        -47      -4       -4       -42       41      -17
Total                                                                    -425     -0    -1062    -1100    -IM -1093   -109        94   -t02    -1091    -1         -1088        -1086    tlS
Fiancial Fised Costs:                                                           -71     -42       -142     -142    -142      -142     -142     -142     -142    -142      -142    -142      -142
Net Ficial ntid rcas Flo:         -164     -776    -61    -1945    -1576       -166       821     1302     1420    tS71      12n7    Ils      1104     1026      S52       82      816     tS51
Itftwio  Rat ef  hbtvaol(                  11.3
lt Prsent Vwlsal  aillioxo
at 102                                 446
at t2                                  -0
at 14                                -419
Industry Doepart  t
June 1986



-104 -                      ANNEX 9-1
Page 1 of 3
INDIA - COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
AONLA - COMPONENT
Assumptions ulsed in Economic Analysis
A.  Capital Cost Estimate
1.        The economic capital cost of the Aonla project is derived from
-the financial capital cost, as follows (in.constant 1985 prices):
US$ million
Local Currency Component of
Financial Capital Costs,
Including Physical Contingencies              181.9
Less: Local Taxes                                    13.2
168.7
Multiplied by 0.8 Standard
Conversion Factor
Economic Local Currency Capital Costs               135.0
Plus Foreign Compouents of
Financial Capital Costs
Including Physical Contingencies              244.5
Total Economic Capital Cost                         379.5
B.   Working Capital
2.        The economic working capital requirements of the Aotla project
are based on the raw materials and work-in-process inventories only.
Finished products inventory has been omitted, since in the case of import
substitution, the inventory of products produced by the Aonla project would
substitute for that of imported products and thus does not increase the
country's total inventory.  Accounts receivable and payable have also heen
omitted as they do not represent costs incurred by the economy, but are
considered instruments of "transfer of obligation". These are the major
reasons why the economic working capital requirements (US$3.3 million) are
much smaller than financial ones (US$58 million in 1985 prices).
C.   Revenues
3.        Economic prices of urea were based on the projected international
prices of urea prepared by the Bank's Commodity Studies and Projections
Division. These are described in more detail in paras 2.20 and 2.21. In
suammry, the FOB price of urea (bagged, Europe) Is projected to increase



- 105 -
ANNEX 9-1
Page 2 of 3
from the 1984/85 cost of US$162/tou actually incurred by Indian fertilizer
imports, to US$190/ton in 1990/91 and US$206/ton in 1995/96.  The price
projection reflects the future global demand and sunply balance of urea as
well as the projected energy situation. Added to the FOB price are sea
freight to India-(US$40/ton), port handling and losses (US$12/ton), and
inland transportation cost (US$28/ton) to UP, the projected market for the
Aonla project's output.  The economic price of urea at UP is thus
calculated at US$270/ton for 1990/91-aud US$286/ton for 1995/96. The
followiug table summarizes the actual and projected economic prices of
urea.
Economic Values of Urea
(US$Tton in 1985 prices)
Actual       ------Projected--
1984/85       1990/91        1995/96
FOB Europe, Bagged                    162           190            206
Sea Freight to Bombay                  40            40              40
Port Handling and Losses               12            12              12
Rail Freight                           28            28              28
Economic Values of Urea
delivered to UP Warehouse          242            270            286
D.   Operating Costs
4.        The natural gas for feedstock is costed at its fuel oil
equivalent valu,. based on calorific value, as the gas is not traded in the
international market. The fuel oil price is projected based on the Bank's
Commodity Studies and Projections Division's projection of crude oil prices
as well as the estimate of fuel oil crude oil price ratio of 0.78. The
following table summarizes the projected economic prices of natural gas to
be used by Aonla plant.



- 106 -                NNN~AEX 9-1
Page 3 of 3
Ecouomic Prices of Natural Gas
(in 198S prices)
Actual          --Projected--
1984/85         1990/91        1995/96
Crude Oil
US$/bbl, FOB Arabian Gulf              28.6             16.2          22.6
US$/ton, FOB Arabian Gulf               209              118            165
Fuel Oil
US$/ton, FOB Arabian Gulf               163               92            129
US$/ton, CIF Bombay                     104              141            141
Fuel Oil Equivalent Value
of Natural Gas a/
US$/1,000 sce                        156               93           126
Gas Transportation Cost
to Aoula
US$11,000 Ncm                          5                5             5
Fuel Oil Equivalent
Value of Natural Gas
at Aonla
US$/1,000 Ncm                        161               98           131
US$/Million BTU                      4.7              2.8           3.8
a/   Calorific values of fuel oil and natural gas are respectively 9,750
Kcal/kg (38,688 BTU/kg) and 8,700 Kcal/Ncm (34,522 BTU/Ncm).
Other raw materials, chemicals and catalysts are costed at CIF prices.
Economic selling expenditures are assumed to be 2X of sales revenues.
Economic fixed costs are calculated by subtracting taxes and duties from
the financial fixed costs.
Industry Department
June 1986



- 107 -
MU- LIIWUIWI I3TMIIZ  IWWIY FRIWI                                                                                     AMuu  9-2
#R  UTm            la OMLIT $T11N fM   Eltc "IE or M
(5 stlls. La sutat 19. pricml
ActuA1
198185  t9w5in  1lI0      937m   19w       194/ 0   M99M   1991192  199V3  199I4 19492  1999   19W97  1997/8  19999  199/OO 20Q0/   2001)02
C.4z tat husrCn Oad:
Caiutat Ct                     -11.0   -51.6   -459   -130.5  -109.7   -28.5    -2.3                                                                                            38.0
Itcrfm ifs  aki.i Caital                                                  -1.0    -t.4    -0.S    -0.4                                                                           3.3
ot.l                     -It.O   -Sa.a   -45.9  -I3.5  -109.7   -2.5    -3.7    -0.S    -0.4           0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     00        .0    41.3
Ecsoc Ylub of Prfftiuz
Irs                                                                       62.3   (42.1   173.5   19Q.5   192.7   195.0   197.3   197.3   197.3   197.3   197.3   197.3   17.3
fAnie                                                                      1.6      3.7     4.5      4.9     S.O      se 4 .0  5.0  5. 5.1     5.I      5.       5.1     5.1     S.l
Ttatl                                                                63.9   145.8   118.0   195.4   197.7   200.0   M2.3   202.3   202.3   202.3   M02.3   M02.3   20.3
Econ.ic Variable Costa:
Natiural ts g-
FtaH   i                                                               -19.8   -38.4   -39.9    45.9    46.5   -4.2   -52.2   -55.4   -55.4   -55.4   -55.4   -55.4   -55.4
Utilities                                                               -0.3   -17.0   -17.1   -18.1   -19.2   -20.3   -2t.5   -2.    -22.9   -22.8   -22.8   -22.    -22.8
sub-total                                                           -29.1   -55.4   -7.0    -2.0  -f.7   -69.6   -73.7   -73.2   -78.2   -79.2   -79.2   -79.2   -79.2
Pow lbtvoal)                                                              -0.7    -:.1     -1.8    -.9    -1.9    -1.9   -1.9    -1.9    -1.9    -1.9    -19            -1.9    -1.9
atar                                                                      -0.1    -0.3    -0.3       0.3    -0.3    -0.3    -0.3    -0.3    -0.3    -0.3    -0.3    -0.3    -0.3
Catalysts & thuuiculs                                                     -0.5    -1.1    -1.3    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4    -1.4
ags                                                                       -1.4    -3.2    -3.8    -4.1       4.1    -4.1    -4.1    -4.1    -4.1    -4.1    -4.1    -4.1    -4.1
sullg Ezgeitasr                                                           -1.3    -2.9    -3.6    -3.9    -4.0    -4.0    -4.0    -40         -4.0    -4.0    -4.0    -4.0    .4.0
t@til                                                              -32.0   -64.3   -67.8   -73.7   -77.4   -81.4  -45.6   -90.1   -90.1   -90.1   -90.1   -90.t   -90.1
Ecauc Fitld Csts;                                                         -4.4     4.7    -8.7    -9.7    -8.7    -6.7    -8.}    -1.7 -8.       7    -8.7   4- -8.7    -6.7
*t1 Ecowi _c Resources Flo     -11.0   -51.6   -05.9  -130.5  -109.7    -2.0    69.0   100.9   112.6   111.5   19.9  108.0   103.5   103.5   I03.5   103.5   103.3   144.8
Intmnal Rate of btars(2l        17.1
lbt Prewt VaIslUSS ailliul
it 101                    125.7
at Il                      73.
at 14                     34.4
udutz Depaitmut
June 1986



- 108 -
AMNEX 9-3
INDLA - COOPERUTIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
RelabuxSlagion Compneta
Eco-nmic Ratea of Return of Sub-Comeonents
(in constant terms)
Economic rates of return are estimated only for the subcomponents whose
economic costs and benefits are reasonably quantifiable. The detail of the
analysis is glven In Project Pile Reference K.
NPV (at a 121
Rehabilitation Subcomponents          Capltal Cost8/  ERR    discount rate)
(M  million)   ()    (US$ million)
Kalol Plant
- Energy Revamping of
Urea Plant                             1.15          44          2.7
- Modification of Primary
Reformer Convention                    1.77          22          0.9
- Replacement of Heat
Exchangers                             0.31          38          0.6
- Recovery of Pressure
Energy by Steam Turbine                0.38          37          0.7
-  LTS Guard Bed                          0.35          35           0.5
- Molecular Sieves and
Repiping of Synthesis Loop             2.31          20          0.9
- Mass Spectrometer with
Microprocessor                         0.31          44          0.8
Phulpur Unit
-  Revamping of Primary Reformer          7.31          52         24
- Synthesis Gas Drying
through Molecular Sieves               1.92          29          1.9
-  Urea Hydrolyzer                         1.38         43          3.1
- Replacement of Equipment
and Exchangers                         0.30    over 60           8.3
- Improving the Existing
Boilers                                2.31          22          1.1
Kandla
- N.A. (mainly storage and independent water supply scheme whose benefits
are not reasonably quantifiable).
aI   Base Cost Estiates.
Industry Department
June 1986



=       1 HIMACHANDIA
COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
r    L P AB                                  MAJOR FERTILIZER PLANTS
PAKISTAN                         HAR,AN                     /          Y
J   WHARtANA o        UTTAR                         41
/                 \      t  DEHI          ,L.                            4
C      R A J A  S  T H A N    oi                   PRADESH  iwco                                          BH HU
/  )   - - 0+°irAn 
la    Kapa,              ~ ~ .           ".
\                ~~~~~~~oKolo                                                                  I- (av orrai > + ,
I   f   Ur.14ipurip~  t    -;,F   B I H A R
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0o,
'      oljajJ0l'     oE                                                                  b   WEST",
5   , X  GUJARArT WB °                   M  A  D H Y A                                   N      ' 
ouKARAr          A H A                       AA SvR.
¢OTronboy    X~~~~~~4   {2         tl ~~.,rI.a
'              OB&rod       °~indore    P R A  D  E S H                 --      7             Moia
BhwanJh0                                                               Roaiil
-                                         
H    -'                                       ,        /-                  oce
20'                          .                                                      0   R I S S A                           20'
M A H A R A S H T R A
mB..0W Tromboy
Thai Voi het0    0aI,
' Romngagodgm o    
'    ° Hydr.obod       0Viaakopotmnn
0d    PRADfSH~-& ~ ~ QoIi*
A  -~~~~~~ ~R-akel.a
Haz,ro'    0'Tiae
20,(M                                                                                  R RSA                                201
M A HAR A SHTR A
Tha1 VidAe0 a   ~II
0Vi.kIaapotnham
0Kokn,ad
ANDHRA
-                ~~~~~PRADESH-
GOA
KARNATAKA                                             000         r a0a0    .a
FFI000IOR PLANTS-
(MYSORE)                                          iar       apa'
uad. Ca,,a-,
Mongolor                        uoro                                 Pnan.a a. m,,,
Banrgolorr°eMdo0g                                              e   ndrPoe
I~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                          E-i                 C om:n
Neyzl ci,                         0       n vm
' '                   ~~~~~~~~~* SNFIoO 'op30
TAMIL
To,                                                  NADU                                          -1,  A          -1d
0,. m 0W  aad~O0a on    aI
CochinO                                                   cheato m9f OEidCOdm? m P0 mp ma0m
KERALA              f
a   103     000      300
-.0 Tuti-oar
-w.d   06 T~                                                         5  i0  07w 3
Trivaundrum, o0    o        
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o~  2J 00  OCO0  400  soa
SRI
LANKA
ii             70TO'0  



GUJARAT(Kwu                                %
INDIA
ix  ix 2000                                  ~~~COOPERATIVE FERTILIZER
3                ~~INDUSTRY PROJECT
v.050                        ~~~~~~~~FERTILIZER COMPLEXES BASED ON                                     &       rps6   rlc
a vi                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOUTH BASSEIN GAS                                       Ple-ned
TOO0Pi,R                                                                                     teopere~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&_   U.,-t-tin
Ox/ito, SecOiN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.t  Higes pipe1., ,nn on  xt.ti-bo
l4~~   Bombay~                                          ,.x,,x *,y"
ThniVn-ix                PA KIS TA N                      HIMASeecedtoAsen  ntlge
¾FRA 9DHE .Scf t/I-
L Z Proven oi resrve lod os,vciotnd go.~)                     ,<            ~           0,i 
Provn neter,g.rsre 
N Piretine t-'etna.) Kano                                       /JNIJAB              '   . .
* Existing tee-inni. tUeT/iCooie
U.d., -studi.m~~~<                                                -
b Existing dersiber ier 6.9thrnd                                                x
e  Poinne                             /~~~~~~  J   5--7HAPY NAA IV,ti/                                                             'P. ',         "'.      9
v  Under cnet-otio
*  Exisning                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a *x-detiod
Eouting, 36" nsio  go.s~NO3J2,a4)L/(                                                                     veeI
--- Enising. 30" crodo oil                                                'N.6erala                                             Ii                                              i
Eoistiitg, 26" neserel 905  0             t,I,..,..IV,ee,i.0         Aenlo          *           "-.      N   E PA   L
E-tsing disriborio   Ie,                      Osx~¾ ~
- -stern b    oo..nrj                                                                                              1 
tcocA   /T fAR                     PIA  DE5t Si2i\
V  ''7  ~~~7..22QA7IA5T'HA N                                           Jie            0,,
Oii'                                                   ,.,         0os v    
Mdh4p.,I?
Pvocess plxrtormsi                /~~~~ Ud-                                                            2)HA
G I/ J A R A 7' ~ ~         ~         ~          ~        ~         /                 '<2  -
*  Exoti~                 K-'                        ¾                     CMrvi   00xedeOed  ' t,d-
Pipelines           '                                 tortes  C~~~~~~K-d.
-   Ecissing, 36" notorel go.              New De!k@)iut,i/   '~~~~~~~N   ntixia.hr ~
Existing. 30 erode oil                                                                                                                         0 AR    S 5ho  Aio  ~ NE P
Eoi.t'xg,  nesorol   ~             ~             ~o                         Bebrole                           ocr3
In ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ Oxhe                   w,~                                   x<oo1ba                                 ve
0                                                                                         A IVDH RA~odopu~  ~ 
ou- ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~- Jiehox 
IT',,' V !I"'                     PRADESH~~~~~~~~~~x                             eO~eer
I. 



.  .  _.  .  I6RD  1916~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR 
A, PROPOSED PROJECT LAYOUT                                                                                                           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COOPERATIVE FERTtLIZER INDUSTRY PROJECT
-  r f ,                                            e                             3            .1                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT LOCATION AND PROPOSED LAYOUT
4   ZJ0xt   WUss bI L   -.                                           MA             g                            MA= A   pC PRCaJECT LAtOUI-                           MAP e  PSJECT tLI10N~~~~~~~MA A   ROPSeDPRJEC LAOUTMA P    JEC tOAT
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                                                                                  L. %q.l L-                                            P" |A-, P
I                         SH.t                                \  \ I                    j                  \  1                'rt:                  '.ek    -                             15                   H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R6 LI"- RW
1s  \  9 4$ 8  j  -  .                                                               \                                         /                SMIGIIa      E                  l N DIA           2T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pt, ~ ,-0-   .,-
-&wt- ~ ~~~~     \                                       I             ArrooxirnaxeScille:~~~~~~~f;.  --             A2rmtet                            __k-   ll A-.
g my  om_ d ( | bLLdlX 3udeTm iu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ - -~~ _ t_ _ ILr z 1001. 6~
_ \ > ~~~~~_ MeTERS 91S - METCP9 z_ \ eLSnI ^ _ v __ S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k-.-d  -%
-E __                                                                                    _      _uTMnh1L



