Docamentof
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Riwpt ig. 5659-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
January 10, 1986
Regional Project Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
their .id.  duds. lb  nm  um  not oihwiwse be dkrdmed wi&mm  Wedi Bak  udbwgz.tiem.I



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units = Ringgit M$ = 100 sen
Average 1984                     November 1985
US$1 = M$2.34                    US$1  =  M$2.43
M$1  = US$.43                    M$l   =  US$0.41
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UNITS OF MEASREMENTS
cm   =    centimeter           (1 cm = 0.39 inches)
m    =    meter                (1 m = 3.28 feet)
32        square meter         (1 m2 = 10.76 square feet)
m3   =    cubic meter          (1 m3 = 35.3 cu. ft. = 264.2 US gallons)
km        kilometer            (1 km = 0.62 mil s)
ha   =    hectare              (1 ha = 10,000 m' = 2.47 acres)
Lcd  =    liters per capita                    _
per day            (1 lcd = 0.001  36
MLd = Megaliters per day (1 Mld = 1,000 m/d = 0.264 MGD)
Ml   =    Megaliter            (1 Ml = 1,000 m3)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -    Asian Development Bank
AGD      -    Accountant General's Department
EPU      -    Economic Planning Unit
F-JKR    -    Federal Department of Public Works
GOM      -    Federal Government of Malaysia
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
JB       -    Johor Bahru
JS       -    Johor State
JS-JKR   -    Johor State Department of Public Works
MHLG     -    Federal Ministry of Housing and Local Government
PIU      -    Project Implementation Unit
PSD      -    Public Service Department
PUB      -    Public Utilities Board of Singapore
SG            State Government
S-JKR    -    State Department of Public Works
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Program
WD       -    Water Department



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SU.--ARY         ....        ..     ........           iii
I.  WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR. 1............-o. .....
Introduction ..................1...0....
Sector Organization ..................gi .z.                               1
Sector Financing and Tariffs .......       .....                          2
Service Levels ................................................           2
Sector Developments ........................................ .             3
Sector Issues and Qonstraints .................................           4
Experience with Past Lending and Bank Objectives
in the Sector. 
II. THE PROJECT AREA..                                                          6
Location and Development Context.                                          6
Population Projections................... . ......          ......         6
Supply and Service Conditions in the Project Areas .             .         7
Demand Projections  .      ................. . ............ .....          9
III.  THE PROJECT. .................... .......................                 10
Project Origin and Formlulation...............................           10
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Support .11
Project Desitin... r......................                              11
Project Costs .14
Project Financing Plan and Lending Arrangements    15
Implementation and Status of Project Preparation .15
Procure t.. .. .. . .                                                    16
Disbursements                    ...18
Environmental Aspectsp................ .... .... *.... . .....           18
rV.  THE BENEFICIARY-JOHOR STATE WATER DEPARTMENT ...... o.........            19
Current Organization of JS-K-o....               J      K      B .......00  19
Approved Reorganizationo......   19
Manpower and Recruitment of Staffe...-f......... .            ....       20
Accounts and Accounting System.......    21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. E. H. Motte (Engineer), T. Pereira and D. C. Jones (Financial
Analysts) and H. W. Barker (Training Specialist) who visited Malaysia between
November 22 and December 12, 1984.
This document has a restictd dsubution and may be ud by reipints only in the pufonmnce of
thei offid duts Its contents may not otherm  be dscoad witout WaddBnk _autrzain



- ii -
Page No.
Billing and CGllection ....................................................... 22
Operations and Naintenance ....................................     23
Audit        .......................................................  23
Training .-__................................._ ---                 24
Reporting           0...................... .........................  25
V.  FINANCIAL . YSIS... ............................ ....               25
Past and Present Financial Performance.......................    25
ooo.ooo_  .... oo........  ... 26
Fncanial Obje..tives..... .......................                   28
Future Financial P erm.ance.           ......... ....               29
Financing PLan for Water Supply....................... ........     30
VIo ECONOKIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSISoooo. .. ooooo.....             ...      31
Benefits and                            .     ............ ....     31
Least Cost                                 . ................       31
Consumer Ability to Pay ........... ..............o.......o. .. ....  32
Rate of                              Btr .................................. 32
Average Incremental Cost....... ............... .......... ......   33
Impact on the Poverty Group ...................................     34
ERisks  ....................................                        34
VIIo AGREEDENTS REACMED AND RECOMMEDIION..ooo....o..o........             34
ANNEXES
1.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates (Tab1es)ooooo.o.o............       36-37
2.  Implementation Sceue  .                                    o.       38-39
3 * Disbursement Sceue...  ............. .. ..  ..... . .               40
4.  Manpower and                            Tr                    ainin ........................  41-50
5.  Assumption for Financial Forecasts..o..........................     51-52
6.  Financial Forecasts ...... . .... .   ...  ...... .... ...... ....  53-55
7.  Reporting Requirements/Monitoring Indicatorso....... .. ...        .. 56
8.  Documents and Data Available in the Project File ..............     57
CHARTS
1.  Projection of Water Demand and Staging of Developments for the      58
Project Districts
2.  Proposed Organization Structure and Staffing Levels of Johor        59
State Water Bepartment
MAPS
Project Works in Johor Bahru District (IBRD Map 18823)
Project Works in Batu Pahat and Kluang Districts (IBRD Map 18824)



- iii -
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Malaysia
Beneficiaries:     Johor State
Amount:            US62.0 milLion equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Relending Terms:   The Federal Government of Malaysia would onlend US$61.7
million of the loan proceeds to the Johor State Government
corresponding to che foreign exchange requirement of the
project, for 25 years including 5 years of grace, 55Z of
this amount at an interest rate of 7.5Z per annum, and the
remainder at 4Z per annum. US$0.3 million would be
retained for training activities. The Federal Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk on the loan.
Project
Description:     The project would expand water supply infrastructure
systems in three of the eight districts of the State of
Johor. Water services would be improved for about one
million persons and expanded to serve 370,000 additional
persons by 1990, thus increasing the service level to, on
average, 86Z of the population in the three districts. The
project would provide for: (a) the expansion of source
works serving the Johor Bahru district, which would result
in an additional supply of water of 90 Hld, and the
strengthening of the distribution systems; (b) the
construction of intake, pumping, transmission and distri-
bution works to provide an additional capacity of 60 Hld to
the Batu Pahat district; (c) the construction of intake,
wells, treatment, transmission and storage works to yield
an additional 90 mld to the Kluang district; (d) establish-
ment of continuing in-house training capabilities at the
Federal and Johor State levels; and (e) technical assis-
tance and consulting services for improving the Water
Department's technical operations, construction supervi-
sion, and block mapping surveys and detailed engineering of
the distribution networks.
The primary risk is that the new Water Department may not
effectively function without the recruitment of the
proposed large number of staff and the introduction of a



- iv -
commercial accounting system. Furthermore, in the past,
the sector has had difficulty in attracting and retaining
qualified and experienced staff. The project, the-efore,
includes institutional support and staff training in order
to minimize these risks.
Project Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
-   (US$ milLion) -
Water Supply
Civil works                                        23.7       15.1      38.8
Equipment                         .                18.0       29.0      47.0
Training                                              0.2        1.0        1.2
Engineering                                           3.2        2.1       5.3
Land Acquisition                                      4.8          -       4.8
Base Cost                                       50.0       47.2      97.1
Physical contingencies                                5.0        4.7       9.7
Price contingencies                                   7.7       10.1       17.9
Total Project Cost /a                           62.7       62.0     124.7
Financing PLan:
IBRD                                                 -        62.0      62.0
Federal Loan to Johor State                        62.7          -      62.7
Total Financing                                    62.7       62.0     124.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY     1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
(US$ milll7;6T
Annual                      2.0     4.1      8.7    12.9    12.9    12.8       8.6
Cumulative                  2.0     6.1    14.8    27.7    40.6    53.4    62.0
Rate of Return:    7.7S
/a Including duties and taxes estimated at US$8.0 million equivalent.



MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Introduction
1.01      In 1983, Malaysia had an estimated population of 14.6 million and a
population density of 43 persons/sq km. Per capita GNP was then US$1,870.
Some 70Z of the country's land area is composed of hilLs and mountains which
are covered for the most part by tropical rainforests and agricultural
developments. Average rainfall for Peninsular Maiaysia at 3,000 to 4,000 mm
comes in two distinct seasons, provides ample water resources to the
peninsula, but often causes widespread flooding on the East Coast States.
Most ma,or towns and population growth centers are situated in the agricultur-
al lowlands along the coastal strip and along rivers and estuaries. Of the
total population, 35Z live in commiunities of 10,000 or more and are classified
as urban population while the rest is classified as rural. Urbanization has
been rapid and, by the end of the century, the urban population is expected to
increase to about 50Z of the total projected population of 21 million. This
rapid urbanization has stretched all urban services including water supply.
Since the 1970s, the Government has pLaced increasing priority on development
of infrastructure services. Particular emphasis has been given to water
supply where service levels have improved markedly (para. 1.06), although
other services (sanitation, drainage) are still lagging. General health
conditions and livi-ng standards in MaLaysia are better in towns than in rural
areas. While waterborne diseases have declined steadily since the early
1970s, gastroenteritis, cholera and typhoid remain endemic, mostly in rural
areas.
Sector Organization
1.02      While the provision of water supply is a state responsibility, the
Federal Government retains significant planning, financing and advisory func-
tions for the water supply and sanitation sector. At the Federal level, four
principal agencies are involved in the water supply and sanitation sector.
The Economic Planning Unit (EPU) of the Prime Minister's Department determines
overall sector investments as a part of its responsibility for development
planning. The Ministry of Housing and Local Government (HELC) has administra-
tive control of local government affairs and assists local authorities (muni-
cipalities and city and town councils) in preparing and implementing sewage
.isposal, drainage and solid wastes schemes.  The water supply branch of the
Federal Public Works Department (F-JKR) is the central agency responsible for
coordinating all water supply activities executed through State Public Works
Departments (S-JKR) and Water Boards. The Environmental/Health Engineering
Unit of the Ministry of Health is responsible for rural sanitation and imple-
ments localized rural water supply projects to supplement the supplies from
state water entities. At this time, there is no overall coordinatiag agency
for water resou-ces development.



- 2 -
1.03      At the state level, the responsibility of providing water supply for
domestic and industrial use in towns and adjoining rural areas is assumed by
S-JKRs in all but four states where Water Departments or Boards are in charge;
these institutions are in charge of design, implementation, operation and
maintenance under the guidance of F-JRR. The Latter provides technical con-
sultancy to S-JKRs and technical coordination at the nacional level. While
most states still entrust the management of water supply activities to a divi-
sion under S-JKR, a more recent trend has been to establish a separate Water
Department whose chief cxecutive reports directly to the State Secretary, in
order to achieve more effective management of the faciLities.
Sector Financing and Tariffs
1.04      Investments in water supply are financed usually through federal
loans, and to a small extent through foreign loans. Such projects, after
construction, are handed over to the state water entity (Board, Department,
Division) for operation and maintenance, and the latter assumes the
corresponding debt service.  Current terms of loans from the Federal Govern-
ment (GOK) are for water supply, 25 year repayment, 7.5% interest rate for
loans to urban systems and 4Z interest rate to rural systems. In the past
when foreign loans were used, they were often passed on to the states on the
same terms and conditions as the original loan. This tended to cause
inevitable distortions in investment priorities because of the widely differ-
ent terms of the different foreign lenders, and between foreign and domestic
loans. The Government has recently adopted a uniform poLicy for lending and
onlending, irrespective of the source of funding. In the rural sector, a
successful rural sanitation program is implemented with grants from the State
and the Federal Government, and the level of technology is such that villagers
can and do maintain the systems at the village level. Investment in sewerage
is financed from municipal revenues and from government and foreign loans, but
very few cities have extensive sewer systems.
1.05      Water tariffs are approved by the respective State Executive
Councils and are uniform statewide but are different for residential and
industrial users. Residential tariffs are progressive, i.e. increase with
consumption. Although there is no prescribed GOK policy on tariffs, guide-
lines to states require that tariffs cover the costs of operation and debt
service and make some minor contribution to capital investment. Compliance
varies from state to state, but GOM has been bringing pressure on the states
in recent years to eliminate subsidies. For sewerage systems a surcharge
added to water bills or a special assessment on severed properties is
presently levied in the few cities having sewerage installations. MunicipaLi-
ties levy fees for the collection and disposal of night soil from the bucket
latrine users and for the desludging of septic tanks.
Service Levels
1.06      About 66Z of Malaysia's population was served by piped water in 1983
compared to 51Z in 1970. Service levels are significantly higher (91%) in
urban areas (populations of above 10,000), where high population densities and
polluted private sources leave no alternative to publicly supplied water.
However, many urban areas suffer from restricted supply, frequent low pressure



- 3 -
and inadequate distribution network extension. The quality of treated water
and the Level of operations are fair to poor.
1.07      It is government policy that the majority of the rural population
should eventually have piped water supply system and generally be served by
house connections. As a first step, the reticulation systAms of urban water
suppLies are being extended to serve the rural population. In the early
1980s, 40% of the total rural population was served by house connections.
Water produced for urban systems averages about 230 liters per capita per day
(lcd) of which about 25% is estimated to serve industries, trades and govern-
ment needs. However, 20X to 40% of the water produced is unaccounted-for,
largely due to leakage, unregistered consumption and faulty metering of
production facilities. Some leak detection and controL programs are being
implemented in a few states using external funding, but this remains a very
limited activity. Under the Government's rural water supply and sanitation
program which aims at serving population clusters of less than 1,000, a
variety of gravity systems, tubewells, hydrauLic rams and rainwater storage
schemes operated and maintained at the village level provide untreated water,
but of reasonable quality.
1.08      Compared to water supply, construction of sewage disposal systems
has lagged far behind the increase in urban population. The proportion of the
urban population without adequate sanitation was estimated at 47% in 1980,
including an estimated 16% without any excreta disposal facility. Depending
on their population and number of housing units, new developments in urban
areas are required to include sewers and oxidation ponds, communal tanks or
individual household septic tanks. With increasing budgetary constraints
there is a realization that conventional water-borne sewerage for all may not
be achievable in the near future. These policies are now being revised by the
MHLG to allow and promote the use of effective and cheaper cn-site low-cost
sanitation alternatives for areas which do not immediately require central
sewerage systems.
Sector Developments
1.09      Sector investments increased from M$150 million under the First
Malaysia Plan (1966-1970) to M$509 million under the Third Plan (1976-1980)
and are expected to total M$2,560 million under the Fourth Plan (1981-1985).
These invest.ient levels have been usually about 3.5% to 4Z of public develop-
ment expenditures, and exclude state contributions and small contributions
from users. Government's objectives as stated in its mid-term review of the
Fourth Plan are to promote a rational allocation of water resources, and to
review the institutional organization for water supply, with a view to
increasing the efficiency of water supply development and management.
Emphasis is also placed on the operations and maintenance of water suppLy to
reduce unaccounted-for water. The overall targets of the ongoing plan are (a)
the completion of water supply projects that will benefit 94% of the urban
population and 66% of the rural population in peninsular Malaysia; and (b) the
construction of two sewerage schemes and the completion of sewerage studies
for all other major urban centers. However, given the financial constraints
that have emerged Lately, these objectives are carried over to the Fifth Plan
(1986-1990).



-4-
Sector Issues and Constraints
1.10      Hanpower.  A key constraint to progressive institutional development
of the sector or to the creation of separate self-accounting State Water
Departments is the lack of trained manpower. Throughout the country the water
sector has difficulty in attracting and retaining suitably qualified and
experienced staff. This is particularly critical at the middle and lower
technician levels where, on average, less than 20Z of existing staff have
minimum entry qualifications. Furthermore, professional staff (engineers and
accountants) seconded by F-JKR and the Accountant General's Department (AGD)
to S-JKR water supply divisions or departments (WD), may initially have little
or no sector experience and may be rotated to another unrelated sector by the
time they have gained this experience. The reluctance of many engineers to
view service at the state Level as a long-term career or the necessity of
their transfer, despite their possible willingness to stay on, further
exacerbate the problem. Solutions to these complex personnel and staff
development problems will take time and might require policy review and
modifications at the national level. Staff training programs, although only a
partial solution, can nevertheless make a significant contribution to
institutional development.
1.11      Operations and Maintenance of Water Supply Systems.  Water supply
systems, built according to guidelines set up by F-JKR, are operated and
maintained by the State WD's within available budgetary provisions. As water
supply is often only part of a department with other government functions, and
accounts, offices, workshops and stores are not separated, there is insuffi-
cient attention given to regular svstems maintenance; familiarity with opera-
tions is also lacking. There are usually more attractions to extend existing
reticulation networks and build new facilities than to maintain and make do
with existing ones. Consequently, maintenance is generally not up to
standard, while new investments have higher design criteria than required and
high per capita costs. There is, however, a growing awareness at the state
and federal levels of the need to maintain systems, train staff for this
purpose and design facilities in line with optimal operations. The proposed
project as well as those being prepared would suppo-t these needs.
1.12      Financial.  At present, water departments or divisions of the S-JKRs
lack appropriate accounting systems to provide adequate and timely financial
information as a basis for rational investment decisions and pricing poli-
cies. In states where water supply is part of a Public Works Department,
waeer revenues flow into the State Government's consolidated fund, but are
sometimes diverted to other pressing short-term needs to the detriment of
water operations. In 1980, the AGD introduced the State Water Supply Fund At:
which established financial and accounting procedures to be followed by tne
states for the control and management of water supply funds. However, mainly
due to a lack of adequately experienced personnel, progress has been extremely
slow in implementing the Act at the state level. This continuing lack of
financial data for setting water tariffs creates uncertainty about the WDs'
capacity to assume debt service Liabilities and finance long-term invest-
ments. The AGD is willing to provide whatever assistance and training
required by the states to implement the Act and, for the present project, has
offered to help the Johor Water Department in training accounting staff,



-5-
preparing the opening financial statements, and introducing and subsequently
monitoring a commercial accounting system.
1.13     Greater Emphasis on Sanitation Investments. The present division of
responsibility for water supply and sanitation combined with a shortage of
budgetary resources has led to large investments in water supply but compara-
tively little attention to improving sanitation. Malaysia has generally not
carried out the construction of major sewerage systems and has relied mainly
on night soil collection systems, septic tanks and subdivisional sewers with
oxidation ponds. However, increasing urban population and density, higher
water consumption and industrialization have resulted in a pressing need to
improve sanitation services and reduce poLlution and potential health risks.
Government's EPU has become aware of the need to better integrate of planning
of the two services, and this need is reflected in its guidelines for prepara-
tion of the next 5-year plan. A sanitation component, prepared as a pilot
project for Johor Bahru under this project, was eventually deleted following
the Municipal Council's decision not to borrow for this component and to
implement it with its own funds. Discussions are now under way with the
Federal Authorities to prepare a sanitation project covering a number of
cities which have high priority, for eradicating unsanitary disposal systems
while at the same time developing lowest technical solutions and cost recovery
systems from end users.
Experience with Past Lending and Bank Objectives in the Sector
1.14      The Bank made three loans for the Malaysian water supply and sanita-
tion sector between 1968 and 1976 but was, thereafter, inactive in the sector
because of deliberate priority given to rural development. Two loans
(Ln. 561-HA of US$3.6 million and Ln. 908-MA of US$13.5 million) for the Kuala
Lumpur/Selangor Water Supply projects were completed by 1976 and 1981, respec-
tively, and one loan (Ln. 1213-MA of US$21.5 million) for the Kuala Lumpur
Sewerage project was recently completed. The projects achieved their physical
objectives of increasing the capacity of the respective system and thereby
enabling the utilities to improve and extend service. Consistent with one of
the Bank's main objectives for its involvement in the sector, the three
projects also aimed at institutional development and financial viability of
the respective entities. The water supply projects achieved only partial
success with institutional objectives. A separate Selangor water department
was created but several positions remained vacant and a commercial type
accounting system fell into disuse because of staff shortages and inexperi-
ence. The financial results, though marginally acceptable, could have been
better. In particular, a higher level of self-financing of the entity's
investment program would have been possible if management had applied for
appropriate and timely tariff increases. Continuing delays in the preparation
of accounts inhibited sound financial planning and management. The Project
Performance Audit Reports (SecM83-12 and SecM76-538) highlighted these
deficiencies. The sewerage pro-ect appears to have achieved success with both
physical and institutional objectives. It is well managed and its financial
position is satisfactory.



-6-
1.15     In the future, the Bank's renewed involvement in the sector would:
(a) provide the impetus for institutional development in the water
supply sector through the creation of separate water departments or
autonomous entities, the introduction of commercial type accounting
systems, and the implementation of staff development and training
programs;
(b) focus on the financial viabiLity of these entities through such
measures as the introduction of adequate tariff structures and their
periodic reviews;
(c) contribute to the development of low-cost solutions for application
in the seweragelsanitation subsector and of appropriate cost
recovery systems from end-users; and
(d) lead to a greater degree of coordination in the planning and
implementation of water supply and sanitation investments.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Development Context
2.01      The proposed project covers three contiguous districts of Johor
State CJS). The main administrative cities for these districts are Johor
Bahru (JB), also the State Capital, Batu Pahat and Kluang. All three
districts are along the main road and railway systems linking Singapore with
Kuala Lumpur and Peninsular Malaysia. Having depended for a long time on
agricultural development, these areas are now also beginning to benefit from
industrial development and from the relocation of industries on the southern
tip of Malaysia, next to the Singapore-Johor Bahru metropolis. In particular,
many large water-consuisng and labor-intensive industries, which are
progressively refused expansion in Singapore, are now planned for relocation
in the project areas, which offer more abundant and cheaper water resources
and larger labor markets. Coupled with the industrial development of the area
is the desire of the new generation to live more independently from their
traditional large family units. This has resulted in the construction of
housing development programs by private developers in areas adjoining the main
traffic arteries and the new industrial and trade centers.
Population Projections
2.02      According to the 1980 census, the total population of the three
districts accounted for 55% of the State population and was distributed as
follows:



-7-
Population
District                    Urban    Rural         Total
( '000)
Johor Bahru                  319        125          444
Batu PahAt                    81        215          296
KLuAng                        55        142          197
Subtotal                  455        482          937
Remainder of State           203        564          767
Total Stare Population       658      1,046        1,704
Percentage                    48Z        52Z         lOOX
Project Area Population
as Z of State               69Z        46Z          55Z
By 1990 and 1995 the population of the project districts by urban and rural
areas is projected to be as follows:
Population ('000)            Average Annual Growth
1990               1995              for 1980-1995
Total   Z Urban    Total   Z Urban    Total (Z)    Urban (Z)
Johor Bahru       660       81        798      85       3.9           4.9
Batu Pahat        325       31        332      34       0.7           2.5
Kluang            241       28        248      31       0.6           2.6
Total      1,226      57       1,378      63       2.4           4.1
Supply and Service Conditions in the Project Areas
2.03      Current levels of service by public water supply systems in the
project areas are quite high in urban areas (80%) but still very limited in
rural areas (38% to 45Z). Besides the disparity in the number of people
served, the quality of service is uneven in each district. The water needs of
the JB district are reasonably well met, mainly because most of its supply is
purchased from the treatment plants owned by Singapore's Public Utilities



Board (PUB) and located in Johor territory.!1 On the other hand, rural areas
of the Batu Pabst and Kluang districts are experiencing water shortages and
rationing, while water pressures in their urban areas are very low and avail-
able capacity falls far short of meeting demand.
2.04      The access of customers to the public supply system is almost
automatic as soon as the distribution network is extended along the street or
is within 50 meters of a property. The potential zustomer is asked to pay for
installation costs while the VD will support the cost of all pipes and
ancillary equipment from the main to the property limits. Building regu-
lations in Malaysia require all houses with internal plumbing to have a roof
tank. This is generally enforced in Johor State as any new premise is con-
nected to the public system only after the in-house installation is completed
and checked by WD personnel.  Almost every connection is metered.  As part of
their effort to supply water to the largest number of people, the WD has main-
tained the principle of including annual budgetary allocations for the exten-
sion and rehabilitation of the tertiary distribution network.
2.05      The Johor Bahru Water District is almost exclusively served from the
PUB production works. Although PUB has been willing to supply water to JS far
in excess of the contracted amounts, prospects for the fu'ture are unclear
given Singapore's own growing needs. JS officials therefore find it desirable
to become less dependent upon PUB, and are planning to invest in additional
water production plants for the district. JS has already almost completed
construction of major production works at Sungei (river) Layang, 20 km from
Johor Bahru, with assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Commis-
sioning of these works, which will lead to a supply of 90 Mld, took place in
late 1985. Despite this new extension, JS demand would still exceed the
contracted amounts set with PUB, although it could obtain an additional 90 Mld
by constructing a small estuary reservoir downstream of the Sungei Layang
works. This would be done under the proposed project. The treatment plant
and transmission mains of the ADB-financed works have an ultimate capacity of
180 Mld, which would still leave JS dependent on PUB for about 30Z of its
water needs. The district's distribution network has been laid out in a
piecemeal fashion following the growth of the various city areas in the past
fifty years. It has many service zones but limited flexibility to boost flows
from one zone to another in an emergency. The commissioning of the Sungei
Layang works will require a major review of the flow repartition in the
distribution network, and strengthening of the system. Unaccounted-for water
in the district amounts to 25Z according to WD data; this is good for a net-
work with many old pipes and a high number of pipe breakages. The quality of
network maintenance is higher than elsewhere in the State partly because of a
devoted but aging cadre of technicians.
1/   Existing agreements between JS and PUB allow the latter to extract up to
630 KLd of water from JS for Singapore's water supply needs; the former,
in turn, is entitled to obtain about 48 Mld of treated water. Actual
purchase of water from PUB was about 130 Mld in 1984.



2.06      The Batu Pahat Water District currently depends on small and
individual water schemes, each serving a limited service area. Water resour-
ces are becoming insufficient and their quality deteriorating because of
salinity encroachment and pollution in the coastal areas. Increased reLiance
on more remote water sources and river flows regulated by dam storage will be
required for future developments. In order to meet the growing and partly
unsatisfied demand of Batu Pahat and the neighboring Poncian district, the
Johor Stace Department of Public Works (JS-JKR) is currently constructing two
treatment plants at Yong Peng (25 Mld) and Simpang Renggam (25 Mld), both to
be compLeted by mid-1986; strengthening of the transmission mains from these
sites to the service areas is also incorporated in the ongoing state
program. With the new plants, the Batu Pahat district will have its produc-
tion capacity increased to 65 Mld. Current water sales for the district
average 34 Mld and amount to 65Z of current production. Unaccounted-for water
thus appears to be significant (35Z) although most production works lack bulk
metering devices, and the production figures are often estimated on the basis
of pump ratings and working schedules. It is believed that actual
unaccounted-for water is probably in the order of 25Z. Nevertheless, the
water district staff has indicated that maintenance of the distribution system
is occurring on an ad hoc basis as and when pipe breakages occur, seldom on a
preventive basis. It was also acknowledged that the minor reinforcements
carried out by JS-JKR do not meet the improvement needs of the overall distri-
bution network.
2.07      The Kluang district, like Batu Pahat, consists of individual surface
water schemes. The water resources are limited, as most treatment works rely
on streams with smalL catchment areas and limited yield. The town of Kluang
itself is a very large administrative and military center and is experiencing
rapid urban development. Existing production facilities cannot meet the
townts water demand and in the absence of an adequate public system, new
industries are attempting to construct their own individual supplies, which
ultimately may interfere with the public supply. Many recently completed city
housing developments will not be connected to the water system until a supple-
mentary supply is provided by the temporary upgrading of water treatment
plants. Total sales for the district now average 28 Mld while production
remains limited to an estimated 34 Mld. is in the Batu Pahat district, the
water production figures are tentati-e, as most of the production installa-
tions are without functioning meters; the installations have suffered from
lack of maintenance and need substantial rehabilitation. Unaccounted-for
water is estimated at 30%. The distribution networks appear to be in good
condition and would be incorporated in the new scheme. However, a preliminary
mapping with ground survey will be necessary for future operational purposes
as well as for interconnections with the proposed extensions.
Demand Projections
2.08      Feasibility studies have been prepared for the three districts.  The
studies indicate that present per capita domestic demand is 200 lcd in Kluang
and Batu Pahat, 230 lcd in Johor Bahru, and an average 160 lcd in smaller
rural centers. These unit figures are expected to increase by 25% and 40% by
1990 and 2000, respectively, due to increased living standards in urban areas
and a trend toward lower house occupancy rates. Industrial demand is also



- 10 -
expected to grow to 20% of domestic demand in the Batu Pahat and Kluang
districts with the relocation of water-intensive industries emigrating from
Singapore.
2.09      Availability of water resources has been assessed during the
feasibility stage by review of past hydrologic data in the case of surface
water, and by drilling and testing for groundwater. Unaccounted-for water has
been assumed to be in the order of 252 to 30Z according to each scheme and is
expected to decline to an average of 20% following the completion of project
activities, including mapping, leak detection and distribution extension
studies and the repair and strengthening of the existing networks.
2.10      Total water demand is expected to increase rapidly at average growth
rates of 68% p.a. for the Johor Bahru and Batu Pahat schemes, and of about 12%
p.a. for the Kluang scheme between 1984 and 1995 as su marized below. Water
supply demand projections and staging of developments for each scheme are
illustrated on Chart 1.
District                                Johor Bahru    Batu Pahat    K[luang
Total water demand
in 1984  (Mld)                            160             44           34
in 1995  (Mld)                            382              97          96
Total billings
in 1984  (Mld)                            130              34          28
in 1995  (Mld)                            313              77          75
Number of connections
in 1984                                60,719         27,750       17,330
in 1995                               107,500         39,800       28,400
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Formulation
3.01      The proposed project is an important part of GOM and JS plans to
upgrade and expand water services in Johor State, under the ongoing Fourth
Malaysia Plan. In January 1984, a Bank economic mission and the Federal
Government held discussions on Bank assistance to the country in light of the
latter's current resource constraints. A request was then made for Bank
participation in a time slice of the country's five-year investment in the
sector. A mission composed of Bank Projects staff and of staff from the UNDP-
funded and Bank-managed Project Preparation Unit based in Colombo subsequently



- 11 -
visited Malaysia in March 19&4 and identified the Johor Water Supply Project
as one of the priority investments in the sector.
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Support
3.02      Project objectives include not only the construction of needed and
justified water supply infrastructure but also the promotion of more capable
and better coordinated water supply institutions. Malaysian agencies are
reasonably experienced in implementing a program of physical works but are
still weak in planning, coordinating and managing water supply facilities.
Therefore, the rationale of Bank support for water supply projects in Malaysia
is to promote institutional development in order to strengthen management
capabilities and introduce sound financial concepts and practices. Bank
involvement has already resulted in the selection of least cost investments
and deferral of some major investments.
3.03      The objectives of the proposed project would be to:
(a) improve service from piped water supply to existing consumers and to
extend it to new consumers in the JB metropolitan area and in the
urban and rural areas of the Batu Pahat and Kluang districts. More
specifically, tce percentage of population served in the JB district
is expected to increase from 75Z in 1983 to 92% in 1995. Forecasts
for the two districts of Batu Pahat and Kluang during the same
period indicate increases from 52Z and 68% to 85% and 86% of the
population, respectively, in 1995. The project is also expected to
meet the growth in water demand from industrial and commercial
concerns;
(b) reduce the dependence of JS on Singapore's water abstractions;
Cc) strengthen water supply activities in the State through the creation
of a separate Water Department and the development of adequate
institutional measures (manpower, training, a commercial accounting
system and improved fiauncial management); and
td) ensure the financial viability of the Water Department.
Project Description
3.04      The physical components of the project comprise the development and
extension of three regional water supply schemes. While these schemes would
be operating independently, the Batu Pahat and Kluang adjoin each other and
would be sharing, with another district, water resources from a combination of
existing and proposed dams (para. 6.04). The principal elements of the
various components are illustrated on Maps 18823 and 18824. The major
components are described below.



- 12 -
3.05      Water Supply Investments.  The proposed investments for the various
districts include:
The Johor Bahru district:
(a)  construction of:  an estuary earthfill dike 700 m long and 8 m high
to create the lower Layang reservoir of non-saline water; a pumping
station along the reservoir co supplement the upper Layang reservoir
with raw water through a 2 km long and 1.2 m diameter transmission
main, a pumping station on the Chabang Tiram also to supplement the
reservoir with raw water through a 4.5 km long and 0.8 m diameter
transmission main; and a disposal system to treat sludge from the
treatment plant;
(b) provision of electrical and pumping equipment for the two pumping
stations to deliver an average 90 Hld, as well as valves and
ancillary equipment; and
(c)  strengthening of the Johor Bahru district water distribution system
by the suppLy and laying of pipes, bulk meters and miscellaneous
equipment, following completion of mapping, leak detection, and
detailed design studies.
The Batu Pahat district:
id) construction of: a raw water intake designed for water abstractions
of 120 Mld; a 2 km long and 0.9 m diameter raw water pipeline and a
pumping station designed for 70 Mld; a treatment plant with a
capacity of 60 MLd and related treated-water pumping station; laying
of pumping and transmission mains of 1.1 m diameter for a 5 km
length, 0.5 m diameter for 35 km, and 0.8 m diameter for 16 km; and
construction of two 11 ML reservoirs;
Ce) provision of pipes and valves, electrical and mechanical equipment
for the construction in (d) above; and
(f) extension and rehabilitation of the regional distribution network
through the purchase of bulk and individual meters, upon completion
of leak detection and field surveys.
The Kluang district:
(g) construction of a treatment plant of a designed capacity of 80 Mld
at the Sembrong Dam site as well as raw and treated water pumping
stations, and laying of a I m diameter transmission line over 9 km;
(h)  laying of some 120 km of transmission mains of various sizes (1 m to
0.3 m diameter) to suppLy and integrate a number of centers and
agricultural redevelopment areas to the main distribution network;
(i) supply of electrical and mechanical equipment for the pumping
stations as well as pipes, valves, meters and ancillary equipment;



- 13 -
(j) construction of some 15 ground-level reservoirs with a total
capacity of 70 MI;
(k) dril'ing of some 6 boreholes and provision of pump and electrical
equipment to yield 10 Mld for che supply of part of the scheme;
(1) extension and rehabilitation of the regional distribution network;
and
Water Department Logistics:
(m) a program of construction of offices, workshops and stores in the
various districts, to permit increased operational auconomy and che
concentration of their activities; and the supply of tools,
machinery, vehicles and various equipment.
3.06      Training.  The training component is not limited to meeting project-
related training needs but will also establish a continuing in-house capabil-
ity to identify and meet training needs of junior staff beyond the project
period. The component would consist of:
At the Johor State level:
Ca) training of three trainers of the training unit, and of district
engineers;
Cb) provision of two experts (water sector trainer and operations
specialist) to assist the three staff mentioned above in developing
and implementing a training program for junior staff (technicians,
operators) and in the implementation of O&H procedures and
management syscems;
(c) development of training programs for part-time tutors and junior
staff; and
(d) upgrading of presently available space and construction of
additional buildings for a Training Center, and supply of related
equipment, furniture and vehicles required for the functioning of
the Center and its workshop.
At the Federal JKR level:
(e) setting up a training cadre of four or five Training Development
Officers. These would receive comprehensive training abroad
preparing them to establish, with the assistance of a training
expert, training linkages between F-JKR and State Water agencies and
to assist the Latter in preparing, developing and delivering in-
house training programs. Further details of the training program
are in Annex 4.



- 14 -
3.07      Consulting Services.  The project would include services for the
supervision of project construction in the water districts; for the survey and
mapping of existing distribution networks, and preparation of detailed design
for strengthening and extending the networks.
Project Costs
3.08      The cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies
is estimated at M$311.8 million (US$124.7 million) of which MS155 (US$62 mil-
lion) or about 49.7% is the foreign exchange component. Taxes and duties are
estimated at about US$8.0 million equivalent and are included in the cost
estimates. The base costs are expressed in December 1985 prices to which a
physical contingency of 10% is added. Price increases for domestic costs are
assumed to be 5% throughout the project period and for foreign costs 7.0% in
1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7% in 1989 and 7.6% in 1990 and 4.5% there-
after. Price contingencies amount to 16.7% of total base costs pLus physical
contingencies. Cost estimates are based on detailed designs for components
amounting to 60% of project costs, and preLiminary engineering and updated
F-JKR rates and prices for the remaining components. The cost of consultant
services under the project is expected to total $5.3 million. Project costs
are summarized in Table 3.1 and details are in Annex 1.
Table 3.1. PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign   Z of
as Z    base
Works                     Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Total    cost
-  M$ million --US$ million-
Civil works             59.1     37.7    96.8   23.7    15.1    38.8    38.9    39.9
Equipment               45.0     72.5   117.5   18.0    29.0    47.0    61.7    48.4
Training                 0.5       2.5     3.1    0.2      1.0      1.2    82.0      1.3
Engineering              8.1      5.2    13.3    3.2       2.1     5.3    39.0       5.5
Land acquisition        12.1      0.0    12.1    4.8       0.0     4.8      0.0     5.0
Base cost
(Dec. 85 prices)       124.9    117.9   242.8   50.0    47.2    97.1    48.5   100.0
Physical contingencies 12.5      11.8    24.3    5.0       4.7     9.7    48.5    10.0
Price contingencies    19.4      25.3    44.7    7.7    10.1    17.9    56.4    18.4
Total Project Cost   156.8    155.0   311.8   62.7    62.0   124.7    49.7   128.4
/a   Taxes and duties are about US$8.0 million equivalent.
UI



- 15 -
Project Financing Plan and Lending Arrangements
3.09      The proposed Bank loan of US$62.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project which represents about 53.1Z of the total cost,
net of duties and taxes. The Bank loan would be made to the Federal Govern-
Dent of Malaysia, which would bear the foreign exchange risk. The project
financing plan is summarized under Table 3.2.  Local costs wou?d be financed
through a federal loan of US$62.7 million equivalent to JS. All proceeds of
the Bank loan, with the exception of US$300,000 for training activities at the
F-JKR level, and the federal loan would be passed on to JS in accordance with
COM's standard terms and conditions for the sector (para. 4) which are as
follows: US$68.4 million corresponding to urban-related investments at 7.5Z
interest rate; and US$56.0 million corresponding to rural-related investments
at 4% interest rate, over 25 years, including five years of grace. These
rates were recently revised by the Government to bring them, particularly the
urban water supply loans, closely in line with the current and projected
mediuar-term inflation rates (5%). Although slightly lower than these rates,
the rates for rural related investments are adequate given the social nature
of some of the sector investments. During negotiations GOM indicated that a
review of the terms and conditions of loans to the water supply sector would
be carried out from time to time.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
CUSS million)
Sources of financing
Total costs      IBRD              JS
JS Water supply                 124.4           61.7            62.7
Federally-related training        0.3           0.3               -
124.7          62.0             62.7
3.10      The Bank would enter into a loan agreement with the COM and a
project agreement with JS. Agreements were reached at negotiations (a) with
COM on the lending and onlending arrangements described in para. 3.09; and (b)
with the JS on the timely provision of counterpart funding (para. 3.09). A
condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement between GOM and JS for the Bank loan and the counterpart funds.
Implementation and Status of Project Preparation
3.11      The project is expected to be implemented over a 6-year period from
early-1986 to end-1991. The water supply components of the project will be
implemented and monitored by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established
directly under the JS Water Department's Director and headed by a full-time
project coordinator.  Until the establishment of the WD (expected in late
1986), the Unit would be under the Assistant Director of Water Supply, of



- 16 -
JS-JKR. The Unit would be assisted in the field by consultants for
construction supervision of the three schemes. The positions of the project
coordinator heading the Unit and engineering staff have been filled by staff
seconded to JS-JKR by F-JKR under positions recently approved for the new
organization of the WD. PIU would be absorbed into WD after the latter is
well established. ALL parties acknowledge the necessity of maintaining a PIU
for a project of this magnitude. The Bank has been informed of the
appointment of a full-time project coordinator and of terms of reference for
the PIU which were found acceptable. The staffing and a schedule for recruit-
ment of PIU personnel was reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
3.12      The extension of water supply schemes is in a reasonably advanced
stage of preparation. Bidding for works extending water supply in the Johor
Bahru and Batu Pahat districts has started in January 1986 following
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures acceptable to the Bank,
with prior prequalification of contractors for the largest civil works
contracts. Local consultants in association with foreign consulting firms
(Rankine of Australia, John Taylor & Son of the UK, and Renardet of France)
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank have been appointed
for the design and the construction supervision of those components in the
three districts.
3.13      For equipment and buildings to be provided under the project, JS-JKR
is currently undertaking a survey to determine the extent of the construction
program needed to provide adequate working space for all WD staff in their
districts and will subsequently prepare detailed designs and obtain the
necessary building permits. This comporent is vital for WD's effective
institutional development.
3.14      Most of the land required for construction of the civil works for
water supply has been surveyed, and its acquisition is not expected to delay
construction. The land is almost all agricultural land or government reserves
and is free of any squatter settlement, and JKR has already made formal
request in almost all cases to start the necessary compensation procedures or
obtain the release of the lands.
Procurement
3.15      The majority of civil works (US$38.6 million) and goods (US$56.1
million) for the project will be procured through ICB following Bank guide-
lines. ICB would be used for all civil works costing more than US$2 million
and goods costing more than US$250,000. A preference margin of the lower of
import taxes or 15Z of the c.i.f. value would be granted for materials and
equipment to domestic manufacturers in bid evaluation. Smaller civil works
and goods contracts totalling about US$8.7 million and US$3.5 million respec-
tively would be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures.
These contracts would be carried out in scattered locations at various times.
The use of LCB procedures is acceptable to the Bank as there is no restric-
tions on the origins and nationalities of contractors/suppliers for Bank-
financed projects. Similarly small purchases of equipment of less than
US$100,000 totalling less than US$1.5 million will be awarded through limited
international shoppi-ig with at least three quotations. Table 3.3 below



- 17 -
summarizes the proposed procurement methods. Packaging of the major contracts
has been arranged to ensure efficient project implementation, reasonable com-
petition and to remain within PIU's management capacity. The values of ICB
contracts range from US$2.0 million to US$8 million for civil works and
US$300,000 to US$5 million for equipment. It is expected that several civil
works contracts would be won by Malaysian contractors.
Table 3.3: PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Total
Project element              ICB       LCB     Other      N.A.   cost
Civil Works                 38.6       8.7      4.0       5.7/a  57.0
(19.3)    (4.3)    (0)       (0)    (23.6)
Goods                       56.1       3.5       1.5       -      61.1
(29.8)    (2.0)    (1.0)             (32.8)
Training and consulting       -                 6.6        -       6.6
services                                     (5.6)             (5.6)
Total                       94.7      12.2     12.1       5.7   124.7
(49.1)    (6.3)    (6.6)    (0)    (62.0)
/a   Land acquisition.
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by Bank loan.
3.16      Advance contracting is currently foreseen for a few suppLy and civil
works contracts totalling about US$5 million since there is a need to start
construction as early as possible in areas currently deprived of continuous
water supply. Advertisements and bid documents have been prepared following
Bank guidelines. A few contracts have been awarded since June 1985.
Therefore retroactive financing up to US$2 million is being provided for
consultants expenditure for supervision and equipment orders incurred after
May 31, 1985.
3.17      Contract Review.  All bidding packages for civil works estimated to
cost US$2 million equivalent and for goods over US$500,000 equivalent would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a
coverage of about 75Z of the total estimated value of works contracts and 85%
of goods contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post
review by the Bank after contract award. Review of LCB bidding packages would
be carried out initially, with occasional spot checks thereafter in the field.



- 18 -
Disbursements
3.18      The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against:
(a) 100Z of the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment or 100% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment;
(b) 75% of local expenditures for e,juipment and materials procured
locally;
(c) 50Z of total expenditures for civil works;
(d) 70% of the cost of consulting services; and
(e) 100% of the cost of training services.
Disbursements made under contracts for equipment and materials and for
training services costing US$50,000 equivalent each or less and totalling no
more than US$500,000 wilL be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Documentation will be retained by the PIU and reviewed by Bank supervision
missions. All other disbursements will be fully documented. A special
account corresponding to four-months expenditures (US$4.3 million maximum)
will be established to facilitate disbursement at the JS level. This project
is significantly more advanced in terms of preparation than the past projects
included in the country profile. The loan is expected to be disbursed over a
period of seven years, one year faster than the typical profile of all Bank
loans to Malaysia (Annex 3). The closing date of the loan would be March 31,
1992.
Environmental and Other Aspects
3.19      The proposed development of the Layang Reservoir for Johor Bahru is
located on a tributary of the Johor river, downstream of the current PUB water
intakes. Future abstractions from the reservoir would otherwise flow into a
Malaysian bay. With regard to water agreements with Singapore (para. 2.05) JS
have assured the Bank that the project is not inconsistent with any existing
agreements signed between Johor and Singapore.
3.20      As this project is mainly intended to provide domestic water supply,
a somewhat greater degree of pollution of surface water can be expected from
the sullage waters because of increased water usage, especially in high
density areas without adequate sewage disposal. In less densely populated
areas, the impact of waste water from the water supply schemes would not be
significant because of the small population and the enforcement of building
codes which require houses with internal pLumbing to have adequate disposal
facilities. The major disruption would be in the central areas of the main
towns which still use bucket latrines and the existing drainage system for
sullage water. The JB Municipal Council is conscious of the problem in its
own jurisdiction and intends to proceed on its own with the implementation of
a phased reduction of bucket latrines and waste disposal sites over the next
years; similarly MHLG officials are currently reviewing ways to start low cost
sanitation investments for some of the project towns.



- 19 -
rv. THE BENEFICIARY: JOHOR STATE WATER DEPARTMENT
Current Organization of JS-JKR
4.01      Currently, the Johor State Public Works Department (JS-JKR) manages
and operates on behalf of the state about 40 waterworks, i.e., mostly treat-
ment plants and related distribution faciliries. It is also responsible for
construction and maintenance of public works including waterworks, roads, and
state and federal buildings. The director of JS-JKR has an assistant director
for water supply who directLy supervises a water supply division responsible
for the management and operations of water supply in the scate's eight dis-
tricts. At each district a senior technical staff member usually supervises
district water supply activities, e.g., operations and maintenance of water
works, meter reading and billing, and minor distribution excensions. The
district offices are often poorly equipped and housed in buildings with inade-
quate faciLities; they are also overcrowded, having to share the limited space
and facilities with other units of JKR. Workshop and repair facilities are
also poor, resulting in inadequate maintenance of wacer supply facilities.
Approved Reorganization
4.02      In line with a study carried out by the Accountant General's Depart-
ment (AGD) in 1983 on the organization of the water suppLv seccor in JS and
its recommendation for a greater degree of autonomy for water supply
activities, JS authorities have decided to separate the water division from
JKR and establish it as a new and separate Water Department (WD). JS has also
decided to adopt the State Water Supply Fund Act of 1980.2, During
negotiations JS officials confirmed that the Act would be tabled for adoption
by the State Assembly and that it was expected to be gazetted by March 1986.
WD would have a director who would be accountable directly to the State
Secretary. It would manage its own budget, have a separate bank account, and
its own staff. As a department of the state, WD would remain under the
control of state officials for certain of its activities such as policy
making, approval of tariff increases, award of contracts, hiring of staff and
review and approval of its budget. Nevertheless, it is expected that the
establishment of a separate semi-autonomous unit would help to improve the
management of water operations and provide the State with more reliable and
timely information on the financial impact of state development policies for
the sector. Although JS Government has agreed to the establishment of WD,
formal gazetting has been appropriately postponed until such time as adequate
staff are recruited and on board (see para. 4.05). State official- would take
the necessary steps to make WD operational by January 1, 1987. As the
2/   The Act calls for among other things:  (a) establishment by each state of
a Water Supply Fund (in effect making the water supply activity a
separate accounting unit); (b) keeping the books and accounts of the
Water Department in accordance with the generally accepted commercial
accounting principles and practices; and (c) submission of annual
financial statements to the Auditor General not later than July 31 of the
next year.



- 20 -
beginning of the fiscal year, this date is also convenient for budgeting and
accounting purposes.
4.03      The proposed organization of WD, summarized in Chart 2, has been
prepared jointly by federal and state authorities following guidelines of
AGD.  WD would have five units:  operation and maintenance, planninP and
deveLopment, finances, administration, and internal audit, all directly
responsible to the director. In addition, a separate Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) has beeL established under the Director (para. 3.12). The proposed
structure is appropriate for the typical activities of a water supply service
organization. The organization and job descriptions were reviewed by the
Public Service Department at the federal level, which generally accepted the
proposal for the technical staff but requested detailed justification for the
large number of financial staff and the civil service grade of the head of the
financial division. A final approval of all yet unapproved positions and the
issuance of related warrants in order to go ahead -with staff recruitment are
expected in May 1986.
Manpower and Recruitment of Staff
4.04      Under the new organization, WD would have some 1,600 authorized
positions, compared with the actual number of 972 (see Annex 4, Attachment
1). The recruitment of additional staff is entrusted: (a) to the JS Public
Service Commission for technician, clerical, industrial and manual positions;
and (b) to the F-JKR and ACD for the senior positions (engineers, financial
and accounting staff) using job descriptions prepared by JS-JKR. Recruitment
of additional staff is well underway since November 1985 and is expected to be
compLeted by July 1986. Most of the recruitment will take place between
November 1985 and July 1986. F-JKR and AGD have indicated that they would be
in a position to respond timely and adequately to the State's request for the
recruitment of the senior staff.
4.05      During negotiations, staffing of WD and a recruitment schedule were
reviewed and agreed. The appointment of key technical staff, namely all
senior leveL staff as well as at least half of the middle level staff has
already been compLeted while the appointment of key financial staff would be
completed by July 1986. Agreement was reached with state officials that:
(a) the gazetting of the WD would take place prior to January 1, 1987 to allow
its effective start-up at that date; and (b) the commercial accounting system
would be fully operational by that date.
4.06      Mobility of Senior Staff.  The senior staff of JS-JKR are well
qualified and experienced in areas such as planning and design of water supply
systems, and supervision of construction. However very few of the staff are
knowledgeable about water operations and management and, as a result, the day-
to-day problems of the utility do not receive the necessary level of atten-
tion. This lack of operational experience in the sector is compounded by the
Government's rather mechanicaL staff development policy of rotating engineers
and, to some extent, financiaL staff from one state to another, and from one
sector to another. WhiLe required under the present career development system
for senior staff, these rotations are not conducive to making engineers able
and interested in the operations and maintenance of water systems. RecentLy,



- 21 -
however, some COM and JS officials have shown increasing awareness of the need
to review these policies as they apply to the water supply sector. The opti-
mal solution would be to develop a cadre of water supply trained engineers,
but this would require some fundamental changes in the present system of
recruitment and rotation of engineers (and financial staff as well) which can-
not be carried out within a short period of time. However, in order to reduce
the turnover of key staff in the early years of the WD, JS authorities intend
to obtain assurances from the respective federal departments (JKR and AGD)
that routine rotations of the seconded staff out of the WD will be initially
limited to special cases, e.g., personal reasons or promotions which cannot be
provided even as special cases within WD. During negotiations, an understand-
ing was reached that the WD should aim at minimizing the frequent turnover of
staff, and the state officials indicated that they would relay their concern
re: turnover of senior staff to the relevant federal agencies.
Accounts and Accounting System
4.07      As is generally the practice in the sector (para. 1.12), accounts of
water supply operations in JS are centralized at the State Treasury and, like
aLl governmental accounts, are maintained under the traditional system of cash
accounting. All revenues from water operations, though accounted for sepa-
rately, go into the JS Treasury, and JS funds capital and recurrent expendi-
tures for the sector through annual budget allocations.
4.08      Notional annual income statements and balance sheets, reconstructed
from cash accounts and memorandum records, are prepared by the water division,
partly in order to meet the requirements of a covenant under the ADB loan
(para. 2.05). The inforation provided in these reports is, however, limited
and somewhat unreliable.-   Furthermore, for reasons given below, the state-
ments are produced after long delays. The present accountirig system thus pro-
vides neither adequate, reliable, nor timely financial data for the efficient
management and evaluacion of water supply activities. The project will
address this problem by establishing a commercial accounting system in the
proposed ID. The system will be designed, implemented and monitored by AGD,
which will also train staff in comprcial accounting system (para. 4.20). AGD
has already submitted a schedule to the Bank for implementation of the system,
acquisition of a computer, and implementation of a computerized accounting
system.  In view of the d-lays in the acquisition of the computer and in the
approval and recruitment of  -nancial staff, the schedule would be updated in
early 1986 indicating the deadlines for the various steps and actions to be
taken, to ensure that the commercial accounting is fully operational by
January 1, 1087.
4.09      The billing system is the only part of the water accounting system
which is at present directly administered in the water division. With the
exception of one IBM PC microcomputer, all of the equipment used in billing is
outmoded and either functioning badly or completely broken, in which case
3/   Pro forma financial statements for FY1980, 1981 and 1982 were available
to the appraisaL mission.



- 22 -
posting is done manually. As a consequence, consumer records are about 12-15
months in arrears and cannot be used by management for monitoring purposes.
Because an effective central monitoring system does not exist, the meter
readers are the only ones who exercise some control in this area. While this
control works tolerably well, it suffers from at least two important short-
comings.  First, it places upon the meter readers an added responsibil-
ity which should not be given to them at all, thus increasing their workload
when they are already overburdened. Second, and more seriously, there is no
effective system of independent financial control over the work of the meter
readers.  The financial staff of the water division have reported these
shortcomings to JS senior officials but changes have not been implemented,
apparently because it was hoped that the water division would be abLe to use
time-sharing on a proposed state government main-frame computer which is as
yet still undefined.
4.10      There is a need to replace the present billing equipment immed-
iately. Any delay will merely worsen the present already unsatisfactory
situation and further undermine the morale of the staff vainly struggling to
maintain existing operations. JS authorities now appreciate the urgent need
for new billing equipment and assured the Bank in November 1985 that appro-
priate funding had been budgeted starting from 1986 for the purchase of
billing and computer equipment, and that a paper detailing guidelines and
specifications of computerization would be prepared by AGD by February 1986.
Billing and Collection
4.11      All service connections in Johor State are metered.  The meters are
scheduled to be read every two months, the routing of meter readers in each
district is rotated regularly and meter readings are spot-checked by the chief
meter reader. The draft bills (with name, address, account number, etc.) are
prepared at headquarters and sent to the districts for completion. Meter
readings are then filled in by the meter readers who also calculate the
charges before giving the bills to the consumers. Bills can be paid at the
offices of any local JKR, Electricity, Telecoms, Post Office, etc. Consumers
are allowed up to 30 days to pay their bills, failing which supplies are cut
off but can be reconnected on payment of arrears and a reconnection charge.
Lately, however, the billing cycle has extended beyond the standard two months
because of a shortage of meter readers, and the disconnection policy has been
carried out less rigidly because of faulty or defective meters and shortages
of replacement meters and of staff to disconnect the meters. While meter
reading and billing are reasonably satisfactory, the overall situation is
expected to improve with the recent recruitment of 42 additional meter readers
as well as with the supply of new meters and the establishment of meter repair
facilities under the proposed project.
4.12      Accounts receivable from government agencies and private consumers
represent slightly over 40 days average billings and are shown in Table 4.1.
To the extent that the figures are reliable, the performance is satisfactory
and is probably due to the many locations where consumers can pay their bills
as well as to the diligence of meter readers who often monitor payment
themselves (para. 4.09).



- 23 -
Tables 4.1:  ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLES
(M$ million)
1980      1981      1982
Water Revenues                                      19.7     21.4      18.6
Receivables:
Govt. Agencies                            0.69     0.93       0.50
Private                                   1.86      1.56      1.57
Total                                     2.55      2.49      2.07
No. of billing days                                 47.3     42.5      40.6
Operations and Maintenance
4.13      Operations and maintenance (0&K) of water supply systems have not
received the required level of attention partLy because of tnhe rapid growth in
the number of schemes commissioned over the past ten years, and partly because
of the inadequate number and experience of staff, mainly at the junior level,
who are responsible for these activities. In the past, when budgets were
tightly controlled, it was difficult to increase funding for equipment, tools
and replacement materials and to expand staffing positions. Also contributing
to the somewhat inadequate O&M is the use of sophisticated technology in pro-
duction works which is not familiar to the newly recruited staff. No instruc-
tion manuals and systematic operating procedures are available for the various
jobs, and junior staff must respond to problems as best they can. JS-JKR
senior staff have acknowledged this situation and intend to handle O&M more
efficiently by instituting systematic maintenance programs, preparing manuals
and intensifying on-the-job training. The appointment of an operations expert
to assist with training under the project (para. 4.19) is expected to assist
staff in carrying out these plans.
Audit
4.14      Within the WD an internal audit unit was originally planned to be
established under the Director. During negotiations, however, JS officials
indicated that the State had the capability to carry out internal audit of its
departments. It was therefore agreed not to have the unit at this stage, but
to review the situation by the State and the Bank after WD became operational.
The Auditor General's department which is responsible for the auditing of all
State Government Departments and units, would carry out an external audit of
WD's accounts as per the provision of the State Water Supply Fund Act.
4.15      During negotiations agreements were reached with JS that:  (a) WD
would submit to the Bank its unaudited and audited accounts of FY85 and FY86
by September 30th and December 31st of the following year, and the accounts cE



- 24 -
FY87 and thereafter by July 31st and October 30th of the following year; and
(b) JS would submit to the Bank by the latter dates, the results of the audit
of the Special Account (para. 3.21).
Training
4.16      The only established training facility now available to public works
staff is a F-JKR Training Institute located in Selangor State, which provides
little training aimed at the water supply sector. The lack of practical
training facilities is particularly a problem for the technical staff
responsible for systems operation and maintenance. No full-time training
staff appear to be employed at any S-JKR level.
4.17      The proposed project will help to meet training needs by:
(a) developing and providing priority training programs for the WD; and (b)
expanding the training capacity of F-JKR and assisting in the decentralization
of some training programs to S-JKR. While the F-JKR training center in
Selangor State will remain the main training unit in the sector by developing
training programs and assisting the State water entities (Divisions,
Departments, Boards) in this respect, it cannot train technicians from all
States. Some decentralized training centers, organized on a regional basis,
must be established to ensure appropriate training of these technicians and
operators. The training of engineers and trainers will, however, continue to
be handled by the F-JRR training center. Details of project activities are
given in Annex 4.
4.18      The Johor State Training Center, to be developed under the proposed
project, would assume responsibility to train junior staff. The growth of WD
manpower from 970, at present, to about 1,650 by 1988 requires the establish-
ment of a small training facility with some 30 training places, to be located
at the Sungei Layang Water Treatment complex. JS-JKR aims at making training
facilities available to staff of other water entities in the region. It also
intends to develop a small cadre of training staff comprising a training
manager and two assistants supplemented by WD staff or retirees where needed.
As local expertise is not currently available to prepare and implement the
training program, technical assistance would be provided under the project and
financed under the loan. This would include a water sector training expert
and a water suppLy operations expert, each for a two-year period. The
experts, who should optimally be in place no later than July 1, 1986, would be
jointly responsible for the development and delivery of training modules, the
development of operational procedures and on-the-job training. The Terms of
Reference and a schedule for recruitment of the two consultant experts were
discussed and agreed at negotiations. The approval of the three training
positions in WD was also discussed and agreed in the context of WD's staffing
requirements (para. 4.05) during negotiations.
4.19      AGD will train WD's financial staff in the comercial accounting
system which it will also design, introduce and monitor (para. 4.08). ACD has
already prepared training manuals to assist in this activity and submitted to
the Bank a detailed training program whose schedule would be revised in early
1986 to match the staff recruitment and computer purchase schedules (paras.
4.04 and 4.08). Funds have been included under the proposed loan to support
training activities of financial staff.



- 25 -
4.20      WD's senior technical staff would benefit from the F-JKR training
program to be carried out under the project. In conjunction with the program,
a training unit would be established to develop water supply-related training
programs for engineers and to assist the various S-JKR in organizing their
manpower and training requirements. This federal unit would require the
approval of positions for four or five training officers who would be assisted
by a training consultant, all to be recruited by July 1986. The approval of
necessary positions, and che schedule for appointment of staff and experts at
F-JKR were reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
Reporting Requirements
4.21      WD would submit to the Bank within three months of the end of the
respective periods, semi-annual reports on the status of projecc
implementation and cost, as well as monitoring indicators on technical, finan-
cial and institutional matters. Details of reporting requirements are given
in Annex 7. WD would submit by September 30 of each year, its five-year
financial projections starting from FY1987. WD will also submit to the Bank a
Project Completion Report.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present FinanciaL Performance
5.01      Because of the weaknesses in the accounting system discussed earlier
(paras. 4.07-4.10), financial information on the water division is limited and
somewhat unreliable. An assessment of its financial performance can therefore
only be an approximation. However, the notional income statements and balance
sheets indicate that its financial performance was fairly satisfactory in
1979, 1980 and 1981 (Table 5.1). Annual revenues were adequate to meet cash
operating expenses and debt service charges and, in addition, made a small
contribution to capital expenditures. In 1982, certainly because of billing
delays, and to some extent probably because of inadequate tariffs, revenues
were short of cash operating expenses. The billing situation improved in 1983
with the recruitment of more meter readers, and tariffs were increased sub-
stantially in September 1983 (tariffs to some customers increased by 100%; the
full benefit of the increases will be manifested only in FY 1984). As a
result, the (provisional) financiaL performance of the water division improved
in 1983 and annual revenues were just about adequate to meet the cash operat-
ing expenses and debt service charges. For the period 1979-83 as a whole the
water division contributed M$1.76 million (under 2%) to its investment needs
through internal cash generation. The financial performance in 1984 is esti-
mated to be satisfactory. The net incernal cash generation is estimated to
have contributed M$7.9 million (11%) to investment needs.
5.02      The division's marginally satisfactory financial performance during
1979-83 has been to some extent due to its significant annual purchase of
treated water at a relatively low unit cost from the Singapore Water Utility
(PUB). This financial advantage is expected to decline gradually starting
from 1986 as JS reduces its current large purchases of treated water from PUB
(para 2.05).



- 26 -
Table 5.1: SUMMARY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (1979-1983)
(MS million)
1979
1979    1980   1981    1982    1983       -1983
(prov)
Total revenues                    17.52   21.39   23.07   20.15   30.13   112.26
O&M and other expenses           9.26   11.66   14.98   17.46   21.33    74.69
Purchase of water                3.25    5.85    3.94    5.26    5.35    23.65
Total Operating Expenses/a        12.51   17.'1   18.92   22.72   26.68    98.34
Gross Internal Cash Generation   5.01    3.88    4.15   -2.57    3.45    13.92
Operational interest             1.40    1.37    1.71    1.64    1.74       7.86
Amortization                     0.61    0.66    0.94    0.98    1.11       4.30
Total Debt Service                 2.01    2.03    2.65    2.62    2.85    12.16
Net Internal Cash Generation /b  3.00    1.85    1.50   -5.19    0.60         1.76
/a   Excluding Depreciation.
7T   Ignores Working Capital Changes.
Tariffs
5.03      The present tariff structure in JS iv divided into two main customer
categories, residential and industrial/trade.4 The residential tariff is
divided into three tranches, i.e., it increases progressively with monthly
household  onsutaption, the lowest tranche being for a monthly consumption
below 23 m . Current tariff levels have been in effect from September 1983
(Table 5.2) when a significant increase was instituted for industrial and high
volume residential consumption. Tariffs are the same for both rural and urban
areas of JS, as in most Sta es of Malaysia.  The current lowest residential
consumption tranche of 23 m /month corresponding to a unit consumption of 120
lcd (whose price is subsidized) is unduly high and could be reduced by even as
much as 50% without adversely affecting the basic needs of lower income
households. Such a modification will bring the tariff structure in line with
existing structures in other states in Peninsular Malaysia and also elsewhere
in the world.  It will also increase the overall revenues of WD.
4/   There is a third category, which is to provide water for ships; its role,
however, is negligible.



- 27 -
Table 5.2: PAST AND PRESENT TARIFFS
(M$ per m )
Thru August    From Sept.1983
Monthly Consumption                1983           to date
1. Residential
0 - 23m3                     0.22              0.29
23m3 - 45m3                  0.33              0.53
Over 45m3                    0.33              0.66
2. Industrial/Trade             0.44              0.75
3. Shipping:
-Ships under 100 tons        0.44              1.20
Ships over 100 tons          1.10              2.30
5.04      Average tariffs in 1983 and 1984 are estimated at M$0.361m3 and
M$0.46/m3 respectively. So far, they appear to have enabled the water
division to sustain its financial operations, at least in terms of funds-
flows. This situation can, however, no longer continue as explained below.
At the same time, the average incremental cost (AIC) of water from the
proposed project components is higher than the current average tariff (para.
6.08). Thus, there would also be a case for considering an increase in
tariffs on economic grounds.
5.05      Calculations made by the appraisal mission using creditable assump-
tions and sensitivities indicate that, under present tariffs, WD will not be
able to meet its debt service obligations in 1986 and thereafter. This is due
to: (a) an increase in operating expenses arising from construction of new
production facilities by JS in order to (i) meet the expected groGth in
demand, and (ii) reduce its dependence on PUB for supply of treated water,
both of which factors increase the unit cost of water produced; and (b) large
increases in debt service obligations in 1986 and further increases thereafter
arising from (i) the current GON policy of granting five-year grace periods on
its sector loans to SGs, with the interest financed by COM during grace
periods, and (ii) the current practice of financing capital investment almost
entirely through borrowings.



- 28 -
5.06      Obviously it is difficult to precisely estimate the necessary tariff
increases because of the lack of adequate accounts and other data. Neverthe-
less, the results of various calculations point toward the need for a substan-
tial tariff increase averaging around 40% in the beginning of 1986 at the
latest, and regular tariff increases thereafter to keep pace with inflation
and rising costs of self production of water. Such a tariff increaso would be
adequate to meet the broadly envisaged financial objectives (paras. 5.08 and
5.10).  These objectives and targets would need to be reviewed when the new WD
and the commercial accounting system have been operating satisfactorily. The
proposed tariff increase could be applied on a varying basis to different
consumer groups depending upon their affordability. Calculations made on the
basis of household income and population data indicate that the water bills of
low-income households, even if the proposed tariff increase were to be applied
uniformly, would still be affordable, i.e., well within 32 of their income
(para. 6.06).
5.07      During negotiaticns:
(i) JS officials confirmed their commitment to the establishment of a
financially viable WD and agreed to raise the average tariff by 30%,
effective no later than September 1, 1986. While this tariff
increase is lower and comes into effect later than those proposed,
nevertheless it was acceptable to the Bank because (a) JS was facing
serious practical constraints in advancing tariff increases; and (b)
such a tariff increase together with the modification of the tariff
structure (see below) went a long way towards achieving the broadly
based financial objectives.
(ii) JS o0ficials agreed to reduce the lowest residential trance from
23 m /month to 18 m3/month effective January 1, 1986. This measure
is expected to result in about 6% increase in WD's annual revenues.
Financial Objectives
5.08      Although GOM has not issued a policy or a directive to state govern-
ments (SGs) regarding financial objectives or targets for the water supply
sector, it has provided guidelines to them on these matters. The guidelines
require SGs to take all necessary measures to ensure that tariffs for water
supply generate adequate revenues to cover, at a minimum, cash operating and
maintenance expenses plus depreciation or debt service charges, whichever is
the higher. Compliance with these guidelines has varied from state to
state. In more recent years COM has been bringing increasing pressure on SGs
to raise water tariffs adequately in order to reduce their subsidies for water
supply activities.
5.09      Under a 1978 project agreement between JS and ADB for the Sungei
Layang Water Supply Project (para. 2.05), the water operations of JS are
required to set tariffs co meet GOM guidelines and, in addition, make some
contribution (neither the amount nor the percentage was specified) towards
capital expenditure. The agreement also requires a tariff review to be
carried out every two years.



- 29 -
Future (1985-1992) Financial Performance
5.10      The financial projections for WD operations under the proposed
project (Annex 6) should be considered largely indicative. They include
several assumpcions which will have to be tested as WD's accounts for 1985 and
1986 are prepared, the commercial accounting system is estabLished, and the
project and the WD develop. Correspondingly, the proposed financial targets
and the financial policies will require review and revision in the light of
actual experience.
5.11      The 30Z tariff increase to be implemented by September 1, 1986,
combined to the additional revenues resuLting from the modification of the
residential tariff structure, and adequate tariff increases in subsequent
years (24% and 20% in early 1988 and 1991 respectively) are expected to resuLt
in a satisfactory financial performance during the period 1985-1992. While
the internal cash generation would be slightly short of debt service
requirements in 1986 che revenues for the period would be adequate to meet
operating costs and debt service charges and, in addition, make a postive
contribution to the total investment requirements. The percentage of
contribution made towards annual investment would vary substantially from year
to year (negative in 1986), because of (a) sudden and severe changes in debt
service charges and (b) changes in the level of investment. The rate of
return on unrevalued assets would increase from about 1.3Z in 1985 to about 8%
in 1992, and about 1-5% during those years if the assets had been revalued.
5.12      During che period 1985-1992, the annual sales volume is projected to
about double, the average tariffs to increase (in current prices) by 100% and
the revenues to increase by 300%. The working ratio and the operating ratio
are expecced co decrease from about 77Z to 53Z and from about 95% to 70Z,
respectively. Through 1987, no significant improvement is expected to take
place in the percentage of internal contribution towards total investment. In
subsequent years, however, the percentage contribution would increase
substantially (23Z in 1989, 51Z in 1992) mainly because the investment program
for these later years is not yet as well defined as that in the earlier
years. More meaningfully, perhaps, there would be a reasonabLe increase in
the amount of net internal cash generation (after coverage of debt service
charges which themselves would be increasing) during those subsequent years.
The debt service ratio would remain rather low at around 1.4 and 1.8 most of
during the period; any reduction in annual sales volume by even 10% (and
assuming no change in average revenue per unit sold), would depress that ratio
to around 1.2, even if the reduction in sales volume were to be accompanied by
a corresponding reduction in operating costs. In summary, the operating and
debt service ratios are highly sensitive to changes in sales volume. Fixed
assets would increase by about 200% and net fixed assets by 300%, but because
most of the capital expenditure is financed by borrowings there would be
little change in total equity, and the debt/equity ratio would, in effect,
deteriorate a little from 78/22 in 1985 to 86114 in 1992.
5.13      Clearly the debt service ratios show an unfavorable trend during the
project period. This could be improved by funding some of the investment
needs through equity contributions. Such a course of action, however, at this
time, would require a major change in the current GOM policy of providing loan



- 30 -
financing for the sector which, on its own, imposes a certain discipline on
the SGs. -ore importantly, it might divert the attention of the parties
involved (GOM, JS and Bank) from ensuring that adequate measures are taken to
deal with the most imminent and critical financial risk - the inability to
meet debt service obligations from 1986. In 1987, after WD has been estab-
lished and the commercial accounting system is operating satisfactorily, a
substantive review of WD's capital structure as well as the financial targets
would be carried out.
Financing Plan for Water SuppLy
5.14        The proposed financing pLan for the period 1985-92 (see Table 5.3)
is consistent with GOM's financial guidelines for the sector as well as with
the requirements of the ADB loan covenant (para. 5.09). Thus, the net
internal cash generation for the period is forecast to contribute about 15Z of
total investment requirements (capital expenditure pLus working capital
needs). In the present, uncertain circumstances of WD, together with its high
debt service obligations, this is considered reasonabLe. However, as indi-
cated earlier, in view of the highly tentative and uncertain nature of WD's
accounts, it is difficult to be precise about its future financial perfor-
mance. Or-e the proper accounting base has been established - expected by
mid-19' - it wouLd be necessary to revise che forecast, which will then form
the basis for deveLoping more accurate performance criteria.
Tnble 5.3: FAXIM Me (1985-1992)
($ million)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1900   1991    92  Total:
(85-92)
Sources of  Fs
T-h  before Depre    10.41  16.88  27.59   50.03   56.17   57.02   82.00   85.57
less Debt Serice     4.08   18.87   19.99   33.43   34.72  35.46   58.82   6538
Yet Tot. Cash Gea     63    -1.99    7.60   16.60  19.45  21.56  23.18   2D.18  112.91  14.95
GXE + I   Inans      0.00   16.89  33.31   54.59  73.12  79.    68.94   12.81  339.49
(Bwk P:ojest)
Other Tlo           121.28  47.54   36.93   7.71   38.34  39.72    5.56   6.03  303.11
Total Eorrovizigs    121.28  64.43   70.24   62.30  11146  119.54  74.50   18.84  642.60  85.05
Total &burces        127.61  62.44  77.85  78.90  130.91  141.10   97.69   39.02  755.51  100.00
Urn of Funds
WIn Project          0.00   16.89   32.81   52.60  68.52  71.42   5'.98   12.81  311.04
Other obrks         107.70  43.70   31.00    5.00   34.00   34.00   0.00    0.00
Interest Crpitalize    13.58   5.54   9.02   7.29   11.50   18.70   5.60    6.03
Total Capital bqXesod   121.28  66.13   72.83   64189  114.02  124.11   61.58   18.84  643.69  85.20
Cash Iznrep"         10.12  -11.12   0.82    8.96   14.00   12.83  33.86    7.62
Other Wbndckz Cakit   -3.79    7.63    4.20    5.05   2.89   4.15    2.25   12.56
taWl Wknici2g Captha  6.3   -3.69    5.01   14.01   16.89   16.98   36.n   20.18  111.82   14.80
Total Uses           127.61  62.44   77.85   78.90  130.91  141.10  97.69   39.02  755.51  100.00



- 31 -
5.15      Agreement was reached during negotiations with JS that:
(a)  it will adopt GOM's financial guidelines for the sector (para.
5.08). More specifically, JS would take necessary measures to main-
tain or increase water tariffs at such levels, as to ensure that
WD's annual revenues will be adequate to cover all cash operating
expenses and debt service requirements, and, in addition, provide a
reasonable percentage contribution to WD's annual investment needs;
and
(b)  by September 30, 1987, when the commercial accounting system would
have been in operation for some time, JS will cause WD to submit its
five-year financial projections to the Bank, discuss them and agree
with the Bank on (i) the specific financiaL targets, e.g. percentage
contribution to investment to be achieved by WD over the project
period keeping in view the affordability and the objective of
maximizing internal cash generation; and (ii) any changes to 1D's
capital structure.
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Benefits and Justification
6.01      The proposed projecc would address the critical water needs of the
three districts of JS and thereby would contribute towards raising the health
and living standards of inhabitants in those areas. About 370,000 additional
persons will, for the first time, have access to piped water service as a
result of the project. Furthermore, many rural areas presently served on an
intermittent basis will be able to rely on a continuous supply of safe
water.
6.02      More importantLy, the project is intended as a means:  (a) to
establish and develop a water utility which would be technically competent,
organizationally strong and financially viable; and (b) to enhance, in the
longer term, the promotion of sound institutional and financial policies and
practices in the sector.
Least Cost Solution
6.03      The particular investment alternative adopted for the Kluang
district was long debated during project appraisal as there was uncertainty on
the implementation schedule of a major multi-purpose regulating dam to be con-
structed at Bekok. The construction of the Bekok Dam by 1990 would aLlow the
construction of a smaller dam on the Kahang River to be postponed by about 10
years. COM eventually gave assurances to JS and JKR that the Bekok Dam would
be given priority under the forthcoming fifth Malaysia Plan and would be
constructed by 1990 when its regulating role will become necessary for water
supply. The proposed scheme finally selected for the Kluang district is
therefore not only the least cost alternative, but also requires Lower invest-
ment from WD during the next few years; it would also provide greater opera-
tional flexibility with the development of a limited but reliable groundwater



- 32 -
source at one extremity of the Kluang scheme. The two other major schemes
consist of: (a) for Johor Bahru, che second phase of a long-term program of
the Least cost alternative, using local fresh surface water in estuaries; and
(b) for Batu Pahat, the first tranche of a long term scheme to use a combina-
tion of run-of-the-river and regulated waters. The strengthening of the
distribution networks combined with their rehabilitation to reduce unaccoun-
ted-for water, would provide service to the maximum population at the Lowest
possible cosc.
Consumer Ability to Pay
6.04      Calculations made on the basis of available household populacion and
income data indicate that the proposed tariffs would result in water bills
still quite affordable to the low-income population. According to a household
survey in Malaysia carried out with the 1980 census, the average monthly
income of the lowest 40% of the population in the country was M$250 (adjusted
to 1984 prices by Consumer Price Indices). The validitv of this figure is
supported by the results of a 1984 socio-economic survey carried out in the
rural areas of the Batu Pahat district which estimated that the average
monthly income of farm households below the poverty Line was M$228. rn either
survey, the average size of household was about six individuals. Assuming a
daily water consumption of 100 lcd (which exceeds the basic needs of the
population) and under the proposed average tariff increase of 30% effective in
1986, the water biLl per household would be about M$7.00. This represents
about 3Z of the above monthly income. Therefore, the water bill of poorer
households under the proposed tariff increase, even if it were applied
uniformly to all tariff blocks, would still be within the affordable limit
estimated at 5% of monthly household income. In practice the tariff increase
is expected to be different for the two main consumer groups (lower for
residential and higher for industrial/trade users), and also among the
residential consumers (smaller increase for the first block and larger for
each successive block). This would further ensure affordability. The lowest
income individuals or families in urban areas would have access to piped
water, at no direct cost, through standpipes or through yard tap connections,
the cost of such water being borne by the local authorities. As regards the
cost of providing a new connection to a poor household, the current policy of
JS is to charge the consumer only the installation cost of the equipment
(para. 2.04). In other words, the cost of a new connection is rather low to a
household; as such it should be an incentive to the household to apply for a
connection.
Rate of Return
6.05      The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project's three water
supply components takes into account (a) as a proxy for benefits, the revenues
associated with incremental water saLes as a result of this project; and (b)
as costs, the capital cost relating to this project and all incremental
recurrent costs. However, for the Johor Bahru component, the ERR is calcu-
lated on the entire program, which includes all costs and revenues associated
with ADB-financed works to be commissioned this year. The ERRs under the
proposed tariff increase are given in Table 6.1. Sensitivity analyses were
also carried out to determine influence of cost and demand variations on the



- 33 -
rates of return, and the resulting ERRs are also given in the table. The ERRs
are more sensitive to changes in water demand than to cost increases. The ERR
on the Batu Pahat component includes a portion of the costs of the Bekok Dam
which are attributable to its water supply regulating function. The low ERR
on the Kluang component is due to the long distances from che source of supply
(i.e., production) to the consumers and to the wide distribution network
needed to reach the dispersed population in the area. The overall ERR is
about 7.7Z.
Table 6.1: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
District         Johor Bahru   Batu Pahat   Kluang    Overall
ERR: Under proposed tariffs
(as per para. 5.11)              8.5              8.8     5.0           7.7
With 10% increase
in capital investment           7.6              7.8     4.3
With 20% decrease
in water demand                 5.7              4.9     2.1
These rates of return do not reflect the full benefits of the project as it is
believed that water tariffs do not fully capture the full effect of health and
productivity improvements resulting from safe water. The water provided by
the project is the only source for most towns and is therefore essential for
the districts' development.
Average Incremental Cost
6.06      The long-run marginal cost of water distributed as a result of
project investments as approximated by the average incremental cost (AIC), !51
has been calculated for each water supply component and summarized below:
Johor Bahru                         0.75 M$/1,OOO 1
Batu Pahat                          0.72 M$I1,000 1
Kluang                              0.97 H$/l,OOO 1
5/   Calculated as the present value of all incremental costs during the 1986-
2015 period, divided by the present value of all incremental water sales
during the same period at the discount rate (opportunity cost of
capital). The latter is currently estimated at 10% for Malaysia.



- 34 -
This compares with JS's current average revenue of M$ 0.46/1,000 liters.
Tariff increases are therefore needed to reflect marginal costs and thus to
signal the resource cost to consumers. After the tariff changes come into
effect in 1986 (para. 5.07) average tariffs will approach AICs in Johor Bahru
and Batu Pahat. Tariffs for industrial/trade and higher volume residential
users will be in excess of the AIC.
Impact on the Urban Poverty Group
6.07      The project is expected to serve both urban and rural areas.  About
252 of the water sales would be made in the rural areas. However, it is
difficult to estimate the precise impact of the project on the poverty group
since the project benefits would generally accrue to the population at
large. There is no separate income data for the project area but available
evidence indicates that JS has a per capita income distribution comparable
with the national average. According to the latest country statistics for
1983, the population under the relative poverty line in urban and rural areas
was 11Z and 30% respectively. Because the proposed investments are addressed
to serve areas which are predominantly poorer than those currently served, not
less than 20% of the project investment would benefit persons from the poverLy
group.
Risks
6.08      The establishment of a new organization with the recruitment of a
large number of staff and the implementation of a commercial accounting system
are both major undertakings. The difficulty in attracting and retaining
qualified and experienced staff at all levels has caused problems in manage-
ment and operations of water supply schemes in the past. This aspect repre-
sents a potential risk to achieving the institutional development objectives.
Recent measures introduced by JS like the impetus for the recruitment drive
and the agreed tariff changes to set the Water Department on a sound financial
footing are good indications of JS commitment to provide adequate support
during the initial years of the new department. Similarly, the active support
of AGD in helping set up and monitor progress on the commercial ac:ounting
system, and the establishment of an in-house training program for technical
and accounting staff should reduce the above risks to an acceptable level.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following
points:
(a)  With the Federal Government:
(i)  the proposed lending and onlending arrangements (para. 3.10);
and
(ii)  the approval of positions and schedule for appointment of
training staff and consultant for the F-JKR water supply-
related training unit (para. 4.20).



- 35 -
(b) With the State of Johor (JS):
(i)  the timely provision of counterpart funding (para. 3.10);
(ii) staffing and a schedule for the appointment of PIU personnel
for the supervision of the water supply components (para.
3.11);
(iii) the effective start-up of the Water Department as a separate
department by January 1, 1987, the approval of the State Water
Supply Fund Act, and the gazetting of the WD prior to this date
as well as establishment of a commercial accounting system
(para. 4.05);
(iv) the staffing and recruitment schedule for WD personnel
(para. 4.05);
(v)  submission of unaudited and audited accounts of the WD and the
special account (para. 4.15).
(vi)  terms of reference and a schedule for recruitment of two train-
ing experts (para. 4.18);
(vii) raising the average water tariff by 30% no later than
September 1, 1986 (para. 5.07).
(viii) commitment to follow GOM's financial guidelines for the sector
and, by September 30, 1987, submission of WD's 5-year financial
projections to the Bank (para. 5.15).
7.02      The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between G0M and JS, would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 3.10).
Recommendation
7.03      On the basis of these agreements and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$62.0 million at the current variable interest
rate to be renaid over 1' years including a 3-year grace period. The borrower
would be the Federal Government of Malaysia.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
- 36 -
WNA1STA-JC MM1~ SVERX PFW
MUAL Osr w FACE MF ME PAU= 0IfRW     11
WTTT!rI *- .  Z CN  -    HIUI ||$  -
w8S                                                BLSE                        AS z
local  Foreign   Total  (XOS I ocal  Foreigii  Total TOMA
Wm! SUPY - CrvlV   S
IlAYAW-6p'ly & Dyke     12.19     7.33  19.52    8.0   4.8    2.93   7.81    37.5
LA p.mp,St   & Wns    1.92        1.15   3.07    1.3   0.77    0.46   1.23    37.6
IE  EAUM-Distr rpn,   8.07        4.56  12.64    5.2   3.23    1.82   5.05    36.1
EA1Uh EAT-&m2rnIcs       7.86     5.47  13.33    5.5   3.15    2.19   5.33    41.0
M1U P&iWn-geserviors     2.63     1.83   4.46    1.8   1.05    0.73   1.78    40.9
M1 PAFAT-Pkmop.St.& Nbins  0.67   0.51   1.18    0.5  O0.7   020   0.47    43.0
EA1U PAN&T-Distr. Ftecs.   1.09   0.62   1.71    0.7   0.44    0.25   0.68    36.1
16.83    10.31  27.13   11.2   6.73    4.12  10.85    38.0
KlINGadi1lIigAip#m't   1.03       1.59   2.63    1.1   0.41    0.64   1.05    60.6
KW11riteserwirs          8.35     5.75  14.10    5.8   3.34    2.30   5.64    40.8
KIJEMW.mp.Stat.& MIin   12.34     9.31  21.65    8.9   4.94    3.72   8.66    43.0
SIUM-Distrht1emsicus.    1.68     0.95   2.63    1.1   0.67    0 38   1.05    36.1
MM  mOMx - R[o 
IAlnAW,Nins & Spec.      1.08     3.30   4.38    1.8   0.43    1.32   1.75    75.3
IATYARGPu s & P1e Sup.  1.97      6.01   7.98    3.3   0.79    2.40   3.19    75.3
BMXS _HE-Di txActea.  10.11    15.96  ;-1,07   10.7   4.05    6.38  IOA5    61 2
DiU PAB-Niuins & Special  5.09    12.2  17.37    7.2   2.0%    4.91   6.95    70.7
PAW gAHAT-&1aelcb.+Tat  1.28      5.34   6.62    2.7   0.51    2.14   2.65    80.7
BMDU NAE&-Distr. Etens.   1.51    2.3    3.89    1.6   0.60    0.95   1.56    61.2
Bl iMC-ERUP'SabWer       0.5D     1.55   2.05    0.8   0.20    0.62   0.82    75.5
XII I-Nkiz2s & Special    12.28    30.72  43.00   17.7  4.91   12.9  17.20    n.4
ffMIDnGilc.+Txeqt25ui  1.35       5.59   6.94    2.9   0.54    2.24   2.78    80.5
KIDJ1;IistrjEcteusian.   2.48     3.91   6 39    2.6   0.99    1.56   2.56    61.1
AIER a  IT-qiip.& Mteri 19.54     8.78  28.32   11.7   7.82    3.51  11.33    31.0
IRADIG                      0.68    3.21   3.89    1.6   0.27    1.28   1.56    82.4
ErIEn  Distr.JLeek Dot.  3.58       3.01   6.59    2.7   1.43    1.20   2.64    45.6
Sqpervi8ioa/Survey  6.47   3.60  10.07    4.1   2.59    1.44   4.03    35.7
IANC qaXIS1IT              14.15    0.00  14.15    5.8   5.66    0.00   5.66     0.0
TUIALM  DEr COST 1]       156.77   155.00 3U.77  128.4  62.71   62.00 124.n    49.7
1 ThDe to rounZing the last digit in totals my appear different thnn the sur of digits
14-J6n-86



ANNEX 1
Table 2
- 37 -
WDEU    PIA   c    E35MR        11
I1ITCL=  *S-       cio   -   IgILUQI         mm-
S  -                        AS Z
T&aFl eg   Total   CM   locad    r          Toal TVL
mm  solY- CaVIn             59.12   37.67   96.79   39.9  23.65   15.07  38.72   38.9
IAYA4-6p'1ly & Dye       9.98    5.86   15.84    6.5  3.99    2.314  6.34    37.0
IAnWtAx2p.Stst A Mains    1.57    0.92    2.49    1.0  0.63    0.37   1.00    37.0
CEBU AEJRE-Distrl-ta.   6.24    3.36    9.60    4.0   2.50    1.34   3.84    35.0
IDU PAViA-6uduxi         6.17    4.11  1O.Z    4.2   2.47    1.64   4.11    40.0
MAN 1160-Ibserviors      2.08    1.38    3.6    1.4  0.3    0.55   1 38    40.0
DM  PA2BAT-P4mp.S-t.&  kins   0.53    0.38    0.91    0.4   O.21    0.15   0.36  2.0
MiN PhT-Distr. sIrS.    0.85    0.46    1.30    0.5  0.314   0.18   0.52    35.0
I--YrieBm -              13.19   7.75   20.94    8.6   5.28    3.10   8-38    37.0
SICIIIlAID i g ipinj 't    0.84   1.26    2.10    0.9   0.34    0.50   0.84   60.0
3UlIJC4eseinoirs         6.69    4.46   ll.15    4.6   2.68    1.78   4.46    60.0
KmIG-lFbps;tmt.& !kins    9.70    7.02   16.72    6.9   3.88    2.81   6.69    62.0
KJu5rBIismtrepnm1as.    1.30    0.70    2.00    0.8  0.52    0.28   0.80    35.0
WIm P smL - ECpfM           45.02   72.52  117.54   48.4  18.01   29.01  47.02    61.7
IuNiHthias & Spec.       0.90   2.69    3.59    1.5  0.36    1.08   1.44    75.0
LAYhG-Pomps & Pb.w Supply  1.64   4.91    6.54    2.7   0.65    1.96   2.62    75.0
:3KCE WAURE-Distrjbt.i.   7.76   11.64   19.40    8.0   3.10    4A.6   7.76    60.0
MIll PASAT-MHins & Specials  4.08    9.52   13.60    5.6  1.63    3.81   5.4    70.0
BMil AIRAT-rlIw4ch.+Treet.  1.00   3.99    4.99    2.1  0.40    1.60   2.00    80.0
- IU PAMT-Distr. Ehtcn.   1.16    1.74    2.90    1.2  0.46    0.70   1.16    60.0
IIFUI tpuoerb            0.41    1.2    1.62    0.7  0.16    0.49   0.65    75.0
KiWSGins &Specials       9.92   23.14   33.05   13.6  3.97    9.25  13.22    70.0
U1W. l.8+c..TrincJquip  1.08   4.3       538    2.2   0.43    1.72   2.15    80.0
U1MWDisr.bteFsiws.    1.92    2.8    4.90    2.0   0.77    1.15   1.92    60.0
MM DWT"-Equip.& )hteri. 15.17   6.0   21.67    8.9  6.07    2.60   8.67    30.0
1RADHG                       0.55    2.50    3.05    1.3  0.22    1.00   122    82.0
EIEG   Distr./Ak Det.    2.92    2.39    530    2.2  1.17    0.95   2.12    45.0
SvisioatSnvey   5.20    2.80    8.00    3.3   2.08    1.12   3.20    35.0
IM AOSLcS                   12.12    O.OD   12.12    5.0  4.85    0.00   4.85    0.0
BSE COST, PRSE O D5. 1985 124.92  117.8  242.80  100.0  49.97   47.15  97.12   48.5
PH1SIL      ;               12.49   11.79   24.2   10.0  5.00    4.72   9.71    48.5
TML CONE   PRICE           137.42  129.66  267.08  110.0  54.97   51.87 10683    48.5
R       ECE                 19.35   25.34   44.69   18.4  7.74   10.13  17.87    56.7
T!7W PROC car 11           156.77  155.00  311.77 128.41  62.71   62.00 124.70   49.7
11 Due to rouxlirg the last digit in totals qy appear differst thn the an of digits
14-Js-86



KALAYSIAm  JOU      iTFI  _i2Y  OJECT
eEWITU       MUMS NTOE         IWLEIUtATION 0Uoz
look Ft Calender Year
CantrsOt   I1W                       1995           lose           1W            jUN             low            1950           1991
vs lus       or    ExecUgINng
City/Coaonsnt                                       I alu        LCI     Ageney  JFAWJ JAN10  JfWJ JAfoO  JWR J JASIU  iJFm  JABR   jIfWJ  ASoN JVA UMJ   JSIY  JFMIJ jASol
KELUANI WinER 50
'15 10  1010a  1510           C 150 o 5
30     C1 Treatment and ancillary works                          1ce    Ji-111                       PA S Eli   A --   -mmwx-             -iro
10  5  1010  10 10  10 10  10 10          5
32     Ceotruction of raeervor reo o    JO-W                                                        PPAS EEU    A  mm *-n,  s*_w, ssss  uws
10  a  10 10  15 15  10 10  10        *
34     Laying of treneaiseion mine                               I on    JIS-I                      IYAS KEE A         r1  .rrrv-w rirlrW  r1*1   0
5  1010       `15 10      10 10   5  5  5         5
so     Lairog af distribution mine               (LCO   lIJS.'                            I                        WBeiSE     An *awaa   =wvsw  sEs  swi*msom  maso  mms
la  a515  gois  to    5 
31     supply of H    E equipmnt                                 ICS    JS-IS                      UEE   A  a         we Weo1it VW O 
33     supply ot treoteent oqulpment                            ICa    JS-S                        IEEE   A 10        u 0   go go  a      a
15   515  go go5
35     Supply af trunsmissian mIni                              IC      JO-Is                       USEEE  A  -    t8_ s -   0s  10
juO 20 s5  s  10  5
37     Oupply of distribution mInm                           L/ICS  JI-IS                                                 KEEE A    m w
15  '01 III         5 go    0
I      &uply of mters                                          ISJIal JOri -                       011EEE      *_*_*- ACa
CODILTINO eRVIUES
5   10  1010E101   555 5 5    5    I 
70     Construction supsrvision for  O                          IED0.   Js-I1                Oa   10sr  1Nss0            pWa1 0..a .10m 100  eEEEsI  -av oeO. . w
5     100 l      10 1010 10           0 5     5         1 e     I                  e
71     Construotion supervilson for V1                          NEo.   JS-IID         _        s   m          -    ssIN s_M.  M I smug, _UiN  _MMa uMas iLLS MM
510       10  1010  10a  6   a     a  0            e                   5       5
71     Conetruotion supervision for Klueng                      LWD    J-IS                       0        mm 0mas         Oma DDO Oam      as _M a _.3Kw  sMM *Mt    mama
73     Distribution etudy for AO                                LCS    JOs-I                      IEI    A MO NOO   00
Is n   15 10  Re  a
74     Distribution study tar 5.                                LCW    JS-S                        IEEA    N0 MOV0  00
75     Distribution itudy for KIluoe                            LCO     J9-S                        dEEA    WO   Om  00         I
LEhhlD -            As  Award                  01   Oeegn                  Ps Prnqultisietioln                   WA:  legatiotion
Bo  Siddingl s   vtuetinn                            ugl  Zupltsntesoln/Sippty                1i   Internetient slupping
bnu ry 31, 1SN



KtlAYflA  JOICA MYRTER suLPLY PJECt
EXPENITIUff PIMRENAX A10 II.PElTA1OI4 SCiEULI
Bank FY Colendar Yver
Centrist    1C9                    1filos        low           1va            lC            1920          1990           1991
Cfty/Component- I  ol t                                             ElcuAgency   JFIIJ JAOE   JFK4U JABOh  JFW    JAMOHO JFIJW JA=W   JFWPJ JAJOIO JFJ JASCOI  JFIJ  SoMEo
CO-MM UlIC  & EWIIPKI OF BUIl IhNO
40     Conetr1etl2n et etern/-rkehep/P                          1                            O                10 101 10  10 10  10 10  10  5
40 Canstruct ian Of storaa/warkahep/Ap                IZP#LCB  Js.-ISD   DNO                    A    a-       "ws       a         x
I                                          1010  10 10  10 20  10 20
41     aJpply of tools, Vehiclum                            I/LC9  Ji s-                         B  EA- 
JOHN  UUARU COKNENT                                       I
la                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 101   1010 i   15 10  101 i 5
10     CtW Estuary barrage/pusping stetionr                  icea   Js-W         PAN EE A   1m0s          "mom 1 6    0
5    1I 0  20   20  1O          5
II  10530  9510a   5  5
11     Bup:Ly A eraction of E & N plantS&                    ice    JU-40         OKEA        .w .m         -
tida  gats.
Lti  1010 1 10    10 10  10  105  I5
19   9upply of distribution pipes                            IC9    J8--WD                              am  El   A      ma        am      m   s  1         m
I          i                                                         10 10  10m10  ea   10 10 l      m 6 0a       rua    u . O         I
is     LOWRne of distribution ppesP  LCO    JS-O                                                        WE EEE    A   _lm Cma   asm  Ymm   amm   aswr
UATU PAIAT WATER SHEgI
R  I                                                                                          5  7   7  I  1010  1510  110 0o    10
el  a Intake atatmnt ptent                                jo IC   JS-w            PA ONE A an _1m                          -            !             I   !
95     Construction of reservoirs                           ice     J             PA          1010 a    1020m  2010t    10a   10
1010 1020 1020          10      10g  l  10
E3     Laying of tranmaleaton  min                          rie    iA-J           PA  SOEt    Anw  ams s I
10     1 011  10 10  10 10    0  5   5  5
R      Laylng of distrlbution mini                           LCE    JS-I                                                    PP   [EA    *=mm.  mw 'I 1'I           b 6
a10    15  200 0 go  5      10
94      aUpply of tra"tmet aquipint                          Ic     I9S-          o E   A        -          --!  ! !  I 
I1510 20 go0         110s   10
25     supply of puapaS alsaotr, aquipient                   ice    JS-W            U lIii   A   -   uon. wm=wu
151i5  1520  US      10
go      uppty of ttanes. pipes & fittings                    t oo    JS              |1BEE    A       10m" O m 1mI
T      Oupptl of distribution pipeo                       ILCUIVO  JSO-                            I             B EA OEmE    mau    a   1., 'I  
a
0



ANNEX 3
-40-
MALAYSIA
JOHOR STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement
at the end of the period
Z of         Profile of all
Bank FY     Period ending    (USS million)  loan amount    Malaysia projects
86       December 31, 1985         0               0                   0
june 30, 1986           2.0               3                  1
87       December 31, 1985        3.5              5                   5
June 30, 1987           5.9               9                  9
88       December 31, 1987       10.0             16                  14
June 30, 1988          14.8              24                 21
89       December 31, ;988      20.5              33                  29
June 30, 1989          27.7              45                 38
90       December 31, 1989      34.1              55                  47
June 30, 1990          40.6              66                 56
91       December 31, 1990      48.4              78                 64
June 30, 1991          53.4              90                 72
92       December 31, 1991      58.9              95                 79
June 30, 1992          62.0             100                 85



-41-                             ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
MALAYSIA
JOHOR STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Manpower and Training
Institutional Development - Context
1.        COM is committed to the premise that water is one of the basic needs
CL the people and has set broad objectives for providing safe water to all
inhabitants. In order to achieve this objective COM is aware of the need to
strengthen the water supply institutions and thereby increase the efficiency
of water supply development and management. It is recognized that two major
institutional weaknesses of State sector entities are a lack of effective
systems for cost recovery and inadequate operation and maintenance of water
supply installations.
2.   A key constraint to progressive institutional development of the sector,
or to the creation of separate, self-accounting State Water Departments, is
the lack of trained manpower. Throughout the country the sector has difficul-
ty in attracting and retaining suitably qualified and experienced staff, This
is particalarly critical at the middle and lower technician levels (i.e., C
and D grades) where, on the average, less than twenty percent of the existing
staff have the minimum entry qualification. Furthermore, the professional
staff (engineers and accountants) seconded by F-JKR to S-JRR water supply
divisions may have little or no previous sector experience, and subsequently
be subject to rotation outside the sector at the time they begin to become
effective. As a consequence, experience in the management and operation of
water supply systems is weak. Solutions to these complex personnel and staff
development problems will take time and require a major policy review. Staff
training programs, although only a partial solution, can nonetheless make a
significant contribution to institutional deveLopment. But, to be effective,
training programs must be systematic, relevant to identified needs, and be
supported by adequate resources that will include competent training staff and
sufficient training capacity.
Existing Training Capacity
3.   Currently the only established technical training facility available to
public works sector staff is the F-JXR Training Institute located at Kajang,
Selangor. The Institute has a capacity for about 130 trainees but because
they represent the full range of JRB activities the alLocation of course
places to water sector staff is severely limited. The current impact of the
Institute on total sector training needs is slight. Lack of practical
training facilities is a major constraint in addressing the high priority
operation and maintenance training needs of technician. In State Water Supply
Departments/Divisions, there are virtually no arrangements for the provision
of organized, in-house, job-related training; training for all staff levels
has become synonymous with learning on-the-job. This means, in effect,
learning by exposure to the job. No full-time training staff appear to be
employed at S-JKR level.



-42 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2of 6
The Project Training Components
4.   The current inadequacy of water sector training resources and related
programs is recognized by both F-JKR and JS-JKR. The substantial training
needs implicit in the creation in 1986 of a separate, self-accounting Johor
State Water Supply Department (WD) also are acknowLedged. The Bank's contin-
ued and growing involvement in the sector could provide impetus to more rapid
development of much needed training capacity and sector-related training
programs. To this end the proposed project would include a training component
designed to address two training objectives. The first would be to develop
and provide a set of priority training programs focussing on training needs
generated by the creation of the new WD. The second training objective would
be to expand F-JKR training services to include the decentralization of some
training programs to S-JKR level.
A.   Johor State
5.   It is expected that training priorities for the WD fill focus on:
(a) improving the management of operations and maintenance of water
installations at the district level;
(b) the implementation of new commercial accounting system; and
(c) the systematic improvement of skill and supervisory standards
reLated to operation and maintenance at the Levels of senior and
junior technician grades (LeveLs C and D), and relevant industrial
and manual grades (IMG).
The WD training component will not be limited to meeting project-related
training needs but will also establish a continuing in-house capability to
identify and meet training needs beyond the project period. For this purpose
a permanent training unit would be established under the project, responsible
to the Superintending Engineer (Operation and Maintenance). The annual
training load likely to be generated by the growth of WD manpower from its
current level of 970 staff, to about 1600 staff by 1988 would require the
establishment of a small (30 training places) training facility to be located
at the Sungei Layang Water Treatment Complex now under construction. The
facilities of the proposed training center would be offered to the staff of
other State water branches or divisions. A detailed manpower inventory,
forecast, and recruitment program, as at November 1984, is given in
Attachment 1.
7.        The main elements of the WD training component would include:
(a) training of the three staff composing of the training unit; and of
the district engineer level staff (most probably outside the
country);
(b) secondment of two technical experts (water sector trainer and opera-
tions specialist) to assist the three staff above in developing and
implementing a training program focussing on junior staff



- 43 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
(technicians, operators) and in the implementation of O&M procedures
and management information systems;
(c)  development of a training program for part-time tutors and for
junior staff; and
(d)  upgrading of presently available space and construction of addition-
al buildings for a training center and suppLy of related equipment,
furniture and vehicles required for the functioning of the Center
and its workshops.
8.        The proposed terms of reference of the experts would be as follows:
(a)  Responsibility of the Operations Expert
As advisor deputy to the Superintending Engineer for Operations and
Maintenance, the Operations expert would be responsible for the
planned and systematic development of operational management
experience for district engineers. The expert's activity would
focus on (i) establishing preventive maintenance systems; (ii) water
metering; (iii) inventory controL; (iv) standard operating proce-
dures; (v) management information systems, and (vi) leakage
control. The expert would also be working with the training expert
to identify the staff in the fieLd in need of training and to
deliver that training. Additionally, the expert would draw up a
program of practical training in operations for the district
engineers through secondment or attachment to water utilities. This
would give emphasis to the provision of short, intensive, training
programs and attachments to appropriate water utilities either at
locally or abroad. Thus an experienced water utility operations
expert in operations and maintenance of production and distribution
works, with at least ten years of experience would need to be
recruited for a period of two years.
Cb)  Responsibility of the Training Expert
As responsible to the Superintending engineer for Operation and
Maintenance, the set up and operations of the job training facility,
the training expert would carry out the following:
Ci) The development of a small cadre of 3 full-time training staff
comprising a training manager and two assistants (established
at levels A and B respectively). It is expected that the
selection of these staff wilL have been made prior to start up
of project activities and that the training to prepare these
staff for their new roles will be provided at an overseas water
sector training institution in the early part of project
implementation.
{ii) The development and training of a panel of part-time tutors/
instructors drawn from existing staff at leveLs A and B. The
paneL would provide resource persons (possibly WD retirees) to



-44 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 4of 6
supplement the full-time training staff in the preparation and
delivery of training programs.
(iii)The development of a small training center following its con-
struction at the Sungei Layang Water Treatment Complex.
Facilities would include (i) classroom; (ii) training
laboratory; (iii) mains and service workshop; (iv) mechanical
and electrical maintenance workshop; (v) field area for
training in Laying and jointing pipes; (vi) model distribution
network, and (vii) residential trainee accommodation. These
facilities would be provided by a combination of converting
some existing buildings and by new construction.
(iv) The development and delivery, with the assistance of the
training team and the operations expert, of a set of priority
skill training modules for levels C and D operational staff and
for Industrial Manual %rades (IMG). The size of current and
projected training cadre is indicated by the Manpower
Inventory, Forecast and Recruitment Program (1985-1987), in
Attachment 1. A comprehensive inventory of appropriate skill
training modules was drawn up and agreed with the senior staff
of WD. This will provide the basis for the initial selection
of priority skill training modules. A copy of the detailed
inventory is in the project file.
(c)  Responsibility for Financial Expertise
Assistance in the design and installation of a commercial accounting
system would be provided by the Accountant General's Department.
This would include the provision of full training support to the
finance and accounts staff of WD. The primary training mode would
be on-the-job.
Both the operations expert and the training expert would be responsible to the
Superintending Engineer (Operations and Maintenance), Whereas their work pro-
grams wouLd be closely related, the operations expert would focus on staff de-
velopment (on-site) at levels A and B in district offices, and on identifying
level C and D staff requiring formal training, while the training expert would
develop off-the-job zcill training modules for operations staff at levels C,
D, and IMG grades. The financial training expert from the AGD's Office would
be responsible to the Chief Financial Officer.
B. Federal Level
9.        The F-JRR training component would be covered by separate financing
arrangements under the loan. Confirmation was reached during negotiation that
F-JKR will seek, over the project lifespan, the creation of four permanent
training positions for the water supply section. The component would
establish a small cadre of four or five full-time Training Development
Officers responsible to the Principal of the F-JKR Training Institute. They
would receive comprehensive training, possibly overseas, for their role and
duties. These would include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
(a) establishing training linkages between F-JKR and State water
agencies (S-JKR, WD, Water Boards);
(b) assisting State water agencies to develop and deliver in-house
training programs both on-the-job and off-the-job;
(c) participation in the design, preparation and provision of training
courses at the F-JKR Training Institute; and
(d) evaluation of training programs at F-JKR and S-JKR water agency
levels.
It is believed that the above cadre would require the assistance of
a sector training expert for at least a year to develop their training
advisory role. The assignment of this expert should take place no later than
June 1986 when he could start work jointly with or assist in the selection of
three to four training officers.
10.      During negotiations, it was also agreed that the training of all
financial staff (managers, accountants and accounting clerks) usually carried
out by AGD on behalf of the State Water Authorities should be supported and
developed through the strengthening of local training programs, the overseas
training of the financial trainers and of some trainees, this would include
also the purchase of equipment for, and development of modules in,
computerization. Provisions of $100,000 were included for that purpose under
the training component.
Technical Assistance
II.      Expertise is not currently available within the public works sector
to prepare and implement the proposed training components. Technical assist-
ance therefore would be required for these activities for which financial
provision would be included in the project financing plan. Technical assist-
ance for both the Johor and Federal training components would include the
provision of a water sector training expert for periods of 24 and 12 man-
months respectively. For Johore it would include, additionally, the services
of a water supply operations exoert for a period of 24 man-months.
Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates
12.      Attachment 3 details the various activities carried out under the
federal and S-JKR components. Both the recruitment of trainers and assignment
of experts in each component are critical in implementing the many facets of
the training programs. Also the completion of physical facilities (now under
construction under the ADB on the Sungei Layang project) and the proposed
construction of additional training workshops are on the critical path to
implementation. JS-JKR have obtained feasibility reports from a consultant
and expect to proceed with detailed design and bidding for the construction of
the additional facilities, and the ordering of equipment. The implementation
schedule will be discussed with the implementing agencies at negotiations.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
13.       The provisional cost of the training components is estimated to be
USS1,290,000 (exluding contingencies) of which about US$1,000,000 would be
foreign exchange. Cost estimates for each component are given in
Attachment 2.



ANNEX 4
~ 47 -                              Attachment I
MALAYSIA
JOHOR STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Johor Water Supply Department
Sunmary - Manpower Inventory, Forecast and Recruitment Program
of the Water Department for 1985-1987
Total         Z increase
Approved                                              manpower           over
establishment   No. to       Recruitment program         strength        existing
Total by group   Filled  Vacant  recruit   1985    1986   1987               1987          positions
A            =       8        0       25        25       0      0              33              312
B            =      11        1       26        20       6      0              37              236
C            =      42        1       96        80      8       8             138              22$
D Non DIG    =    150       158      159       125      34      0             309              106
LMG    =    760      205       370     1250      49     71           1,130                48
Grand Total      971     365       676       500     97      79           1,647               69
Notes:
C1) Vacant positions include those already approved by the State Government.
(2) As of December 1984, the staffing in Groups A, B and C has already been submitted to the
Federal Republic Service Department for approval.



-48-                              ANN-  4
Attacbment 2
MALAYSIA
JOHOR STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Training Component Budget Estimate
Local     Foreign    Total
-USSS'OO
A. Johor State Related Training
Consultant's remuneration (Training) 24 man-months          -        240       240
(Operations) 24 man-months       -        240       240
International travel                                       -          10         10
Consultant's living & set-up costs                        40           -        40
Construction costs - S.L. Training Center
- dormitory etc.                       40         80        120
- Distr. system                        20         40         60
- ML/SL workshop                        -          20        20
- Demonstration area                    -          20        20
Training equipment - HL/SL workshop                         -         30         30
- Laboratory                            -          50        50
- Demonstration area                    -          20        20
Furniture                                                  36          0        36
Vehicles (including bus)                                    -         40        40
Overseas training for district engineers & trainers        -          70        70
Subtotal                                            136         860       996
B. FJRR related training
Consultant's remuneration (12 man--onths)                  -         120 /a    120
International travel                                       -           2         2
Local travel                                                3          0         3
Consultant's living & set-up costs                        20           -        20
Exr2rnal training development programs                     -          40        40
(4 no. training officers)
Sub-total                                            23         162       185
C. AGD related training
Accountancy training                                       20         90        110/a
Total                                               179       1,092     1.291
/a Ultimately accounted for under the contingen.cy amount.



ANNEX 4
49 -                           Attachment 3
Mrsini  Caqoxmut - SdWh3se of TupJmw,tics
1985       1986        1987       1988        1989       1990
A. JC    SnU  CMC
Noczui_t of traim                                 m
a of criin. e  
Tzain  of district                    _Xu
Ad  D      of tra _     Po
ig  .S Itallaiem of
abmtim of Tra    af.ciim
B. ,-a     r
Amminl t o tra~iun t-a2m  mmd
Pzqruiuti of aroifi&S    u
A-iMhwr  of tcainhxgzx
t Dt
C. E AT    Cl                                                                  _                         _
Jmwty 14, I8



iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C    ~~  CC~I-4INI -    - - I--      --  -  -. -*~I~
&      -~~~04"            4%
----- T------4t[f ------ --------- - -- -------
th ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ WtOi 
-- ~--- -----------a------- -- -------------    iS  
----T-T--------T--------T------------gf 
U             U                      t   "   3 i
.                                    v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
w                                           |  I                    1



-51-                           ANNEX 5
Page 1
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
of the Water Supply Department
Inflation. The figures were obtained from Bank Guidelines and
Economic Report on Malaysia. They are: 5Z p.a. throughout the project period
1985-92.
Financial Projections
Several alternative projections using different sensitivities to
critical elements have been carried out (e.g. changes in tariffs, in volume
sales, in operating costs, etc.). These are available in project file. Only
the three main Financial Statements and a Monitoring Indicator are attached,
the rest are available in project file.
Population and its Growth Rate
The 1983 population in the entire state was estimated at 1.78 mil-
lion inhabitants. Only a cursory attempt was made to cross check this total
population (the above figure) with the estimated population of each of the
eight districts. The population is estimated to grow at 2.5Z p.a. No attempt
was made to determine the size of the urban and the rural population nor their
individual growth rates in any of the districts nor for the State as a
whole. The percentage of the population served in 1983 was the best guess
that could be made after discussing with JS/JKR officials.
Bad Debts. These are projected to be very low (the provision in
each one of the three Annual Reports of the Water Division is only K$35,000
which is less than 0.2% of the annual revenues) and have therefore been
ignored. JS requires a deposit from each consumer which is equivalent to one
month's consumption.
Cost of Power, Chemicals, Materials, etc. These costs are projected
to be directly proportional to water self-produced and to keep pace with
annual inflation.Cost of Personnel. Take into account a wage revision (i.e.
increase of 15% in 1985) and also an increase in wage bill arising from
recruitment of some 600 new staff through 1986. Thereafter, the wage bill is
projected to increase annually by 5% through 1989, and by 15% (wage revision)
in 1990.
Volume and Cost of Water Purchased The annual volume of water
expected to be purchased from PUB is derived from the projections giv n in
Chart 2. Its unit cost is expected to continue to remain at M$0.11/m through
1987 when the agreement is due for renewal; in 1988, the unit cost is
projected to increase by 100%, and to remain the same for the next few years.
Water Sales These were derived for each district on the basis of
present and future water production capacity, the status of present service,
the percentage of population served, the level of suppressed demand, the
absorptive capacity of the WD (e.g. the number of new consumers it could
reasonably connect each year), and the anticipated industrial and population
growth.



-52-                            ANNEX 5
Page 2
Unaccounted for Water. These losses appeared to vary vastly from
one district to another. The production and billing records in one district
suggested a loss of only 10% which is clearly not realistic. For the purposes
of these projections, the average unaccounted for water is assumed to be 35%
through 1985 and to decline gradually to 26% by 1991.
Depreciation. Three percent of average gross fixed assets in
operation.
Loans, Amortization and Interest. Urban and rural components of the
IBRD project represent 55% and 45Z respectively of the total cost of the
project excluding training components. The project will be financed entirely
by IBRD loan to GOM and GOM'S own funds. COM will provide a consolidated loan
to Johor State. The loan terms include equal annuity payments and repayment
period of 25 years with five years of grace period during which time the
interest is added to the principal; but, for the urban and rural components,
the interest rates on the loan will be 7.5% and 4Z respectively. The values
of all other debt and the amortization and interest on it were obtained from
the water division.
Tariff Increase. Average tariffs would be increased by 30Z on
September 1, 1986, 25% on January 1, 1988, and 20% on January 1, 1991. The
lowest rasilential consumption tranche (i.e. Social Block was reduced from
23m to 18m on January 1, 1986).
Asset Values. Between 1979-1980 the Accountant General's Department
had carried out inventorization and valuation of all fixed assets. This was
taken into account in determining the asset values for FY83.
Other Revenues. Payment made by PUB, and credited to water
division, for extracting water from rivers in Johor State.



- 53 -
MA1L iA      mm smX PJROZ=                             AMU   6
J  S;E= Wa!        1 iEi                            page 1 of 3
!; 1mLm    11         tillin 11$            Fy l/nds 131
(Pro.)     (t P)ojecties
1983    164    1985    86   17   1968   1           1990    991   1992
Populati0  - 000              70.0    14.3  1859.6 1906.1 1953.7 2002.6 2052.7 2104.0 2156.6 2210.5
Populatima Serd               65A?    69.1    72.1K  73.92  78.2  83M  8732  91.52  92.62  94.92
Water Self     -PiI          71.94   73.52    80.21  82.3  11635 134.4  152.21 172.55 214.70 229.48
Water     icts  - O         210.60   27.70   263.51 256.25 278.68 305.01 325.81 349.91 362.89 381.57
c     Dptim bit ec.          31.00    31.00    31.50  32.50  33.50  35.00  36.50  38.00  39.00  40.00
Volse Sold - MillHio 1B      78.34    84.71    92.05  99.94 112.03 128.11 142.71 159.56 169.8  183.15
Water Ptjrclmsm; i1lii 113   48.61    56.81    61.42  69.10  46.00  46.00  46.00  46.00  18.00  18.00
2 Ikcacr m  ted-fiSr Water   35.0M   35.01K   35.0MZ 34.0MK 31.1OM  29.O0M  28.OM1  27.01Z 26.0(1 26.0(%
Total Water [P=od4PwcbI uil J1O 120.53   130.32   141.61 151.42 162.36 I80.43 198.20 218.57 229.50 247.50
A eRage TrMiff per W3O5)      0.36     0.46    0.46   0.53   0.63   0.79   0.79   0.79   0.95   0.95
Tariff Reveues               28.20   38.96    42.24  53.45  71.08 101.57 112.86 125.87 161.78 174.03
Otber Revemoes 1                 0       0        0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
OtbrReuevezm    2             1.28     1.43    1.52   1.61   1.70   3.0   3.40   3.40   3.40   3.40
Otber Revenmes 3              0.64    1.60     1.73   2.05   2.27   3.25   3.16   3.00   3.00   3.00
1!JToL oFEATU1 BElENCES      30.12   41.99    45.49  57.11  75.05 108.22   9.42 132.27 168.18 180.43
Pezamrael                    7.580    8.20    11.13  14.39  15.74  16.06  1639  18-3  18.98  19.93
pa-                           4.82    5A45     6.24   6.73   9.98  12.11  14A0  17.14  22-3  25.13
;-terials                     3.57    4.03     4.62   4.98   7.38   8.96  10.65  12.68  16.56  18.58
Ilimteztme                    2.18    2.47     2.    3.05   4.53   5.49   653   7.77  10.15  11.39
Other Ost                     3.18    3.56     3.59   3.3   5.19   6.62   8.59  10.80  14.78  16.55
Water Pbrciased               5.35    6.25     6.67   7.25   4.65   8.95   8.69   8.54   3.32   3.28
TUAL aP3A   RES              26.68    29.96    35.08  40.23  47.6  58.19  65.25  75.26  86.18  94.87
19 B          EEIEN           3.4    12.03    10.41  16.88  27.59  50.03  54.17  57.02  82.00  85.57
1Dpreciatimn                  7.10    7.07     8.27  11.51  15.34  17.A3  19.68  22.68  26.05  28.91
*n-cmb Dsditure00 0.00    0.ao                                      0.00   00 M       0.00   0.0o   0.00
(PR;G  U                     -3.66    4.96     2.14   5.37  12.25  32.60  34.9  34.34  55.95  56.65
Operatiaml Interest           1.74    2.42     2.32  16.99  17.99  24.26  24.89  24.46  42.84  44.10
Other    e (net)             Oa0    0.00      0.00  O.O  O.0   O.O   0.00   0.00   .O0D   0.00
MEr IE                       -5.60    2.54   -0.18 -11.62  -5.74   8.34   9.60   9.88  13.11  12.56
R&TXOS AWD CXWARA13=:
ANe.Fpeaes per 13 Sold ($)    0.34    0.35     0.38   OO   0.42   0.45   0.46   0.47   0.51   0.52
lbkiig Ratio                  88.62    71 32    77.1Z  70h.  63..=  53.8S  54.62  56.92  51.22  52.6Z
Operat;z-  Ratio             112.12   88.22    95.32  90.62  83.72  69.92  71.1Z  74.1K  66.7Z  68.6Z
bt   ann Revemzes            -17.92    6.12   -0.42 -20.42  -7.7Z   7.72   8.Us   7.5t   7..&   7.0Z
Tcmaesm ia Tariffs  (Rel)             27*Z   -5.0Z  ll.Qt  13.1K  19.1C  -5.1K  -5.oz  15.K  -0.3
Increase in C eazng Reves             39.42     83   25.52  31.42  44.2S  10.42  10.   27.12   7.3Z
lncreas in Water Sold                  8.12     8.72   8.62  12.12  14.42  11.42  11    6.4Z   7B
Average Asset's Rate Base    121.4   132.8   165.2  263.4  377.6  430.7  487.2  566.0  654.1  721.9
Rate of Return (nrevaned) Ass  -3.MK    3.72    1.3Z   2.10   3.2Z   7.6Z   7.1Z   6.1Z   8.62   7.8
1) Due to rounding the last digit in toals may appew differest th tie am of colus.
16-Ji-6 (Social Blmc  reiced to im6 on Jac.86, m  Tariff rhcz. of 3(1 o Sep..6, 2   n Jan.88, 2K Z JWn.91]



- 54 -
MIAYI: JlR MM  SMZY P =                                ARM  6
.m  Sirizu.  .m ir                                  p8e 2 of 3
SrJOKES AND hPTLICAM1ICi Cl FM          JAillin K     Fy eds 12/31
CPrav.)    (Eat)                         Projections
1983    1984    1985   1986   1967   1968  1989   1990   191   L992
SOES (OF ;W:
in~ before depreciatia       3A4    12.03    10.41  16.88  27.59  50.03  54.17  57.02  82.00  85.57
Otber                         0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
User's Gxruxbutions           0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   o.o0   0.00
GROSW INEaL CAGM G(EROATI     3.14    12.03    10.41  16.88  27.59  50.03  54.17  57.02  82.0o  85.57
Ctpesrticmal Grats            0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Gstr.or Fquity Cntrih-tiv.    0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
I3MDP( (Urban) Disbursnts    0.00      O.O0    0.00   9.29  18.05  28.93  37.69  39.28  30.79   7.05
Financed Interest IEDiao Urba   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.35   1.39   3.21   5.88   9.11   0.00
I3ND4aoM ORral) DiJ=sburs ts   0.00    0.00    0.00   7.60  14.77  23.67  30.84  32.14  25.19   5.76
Financed Interest IHM4M Rura   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.15   0.60   1 39   2.52   3.85   0.00
Other Io8ns                   0.00    63.54   121.28  47.54  36.93   7.71  38.34  39.72   5.56   6.03
Other IroS                   61.59     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   O.OD   0.00
7EL BOKFOAMiG                61.59    63.54   121.28  64.43  70.24  62.30 111.46 119.54  .74.50  18.84
W.FhL Sam= oF iWDE           65.03    75.57   131.69  81.31  97.84 112.33 165.63 176.56 156.50 104.41
MECUQ  O F RI:E
Project                                        0.00  16.89  32.81  52.60  68.52  71.42  55.98  12.81
Interest Capitalized          1.13     6.86    13.58   5.54   9.02   7.29  11.50  18.70   5.60   6.03
Otber Wrks I                 62.89    56.68   100.00  31.00  22.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Ocher4I3zk II                 0.00     0.00    7.70  12.70   9.00   5.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Other Works m                                                             34.00  34.00
IUIAL CaPrAr. EFl)nC1RU      64.02    63.54   121.28  66.13  72.83  64.89 114.02 124.11  61.58  18i84
Aacntitim                     1.11     1.66     1.76   1.88  2.0n   9.17   9.63  11.00  15.98  21.29
permatiowl Interest           1.74     2.42    2.32  16.99  17.99  24.26  24.89  24.46  42.84  44.10
ITCIA DM SERVICE              2.85     4.08    4.08  18.87  19.99  33.43  34.72  35.6  58.82  65.38
UliCE  CAPrIL NED                0     4.87   -3.79   7.3   4.20   5.05   2.89   4.15   2.25  12.56
O=R ASSEilAEAuIL. CNADG          0     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
TCMLI. AIPPAnCm  OF CmES     66.87    72A.   121.57  92.43  97.02 103.37 151.63 163.7  122.64  96.78
CA  NrRFELSE (+) (C X aSE    -1.84     3.08    10.12 -11.12   0.82   8.96  14.00  12.83  33.86   7.62
Debt Service Ratio             1.2      2.9     2.6   0.9   1.    1.5   1.6   1.6   1.4   1.3
Z Corihita  to Lnestist        O.91     4.92    8.3  -14.=   4.72  17.8  14.5%  14.(0  34.0%  40A4
Z Capital expend. of Net Assets   52.7%    44.OZ    65.2t  19.A%  17.61  14.51  21.61  20.51   8.8Z   2.51
Dtr 'tim to Capital Exped.   0.59      3.08    10.12  -9.42   3.41  11.55  16.56  17.41  20.94   7.62
16-Jan-86



- 55 -
IUh:I   JWK M      S U1PIY  B                            Al=  6
ja   ,MMT WMM  'M2M                                   pge 3 oE 3
MIAIM STAIE                lillioi F            Fy, nbds 12131
(PmOW.)    (Est)                          Projectios
1983    1984     1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Fimed Assets m    rtion      220.66   25D.66   300.66 466.96 555.92 605.92 705.92 805.92 930.92 996.42
Aci1ated Depeciatim           9929   106.36   114.63 126.14 141.   158.91 178.59 201.2  22I.32 256.23
Mr      hSETS                121.37   14430   186.03 340.82 414.43 447.01 527.33 604.65 703.60 740.19
INI PREaS                     83.31   116.85   188.13  87.96  75.3  90.72 104.72 128.84  65.50  18.09
Cash                           0.01     3.09    13.21   2.09   2.91  11.7  25.87  38.70  72.57  80.19
Accouts Reeivable              2.19     6.31     4.22   5.34   7.11  10.16  1129  12.59  16.18  17.40
Inventories                    6.14     6.95     7.52  11.67  13.90  15.15  17.65  20.1S  23.27  24.91
Otbr QOrest Assets            13.46    15.24    17.65  20.84  24.35  30.39  37.10  42.19  41.23  55.13
TarAL JRORF  ASSElS           21.80    31.59    42.60  39.95  48.27  67.57  91.90 113.63 153.25 177.63
OJER ASSETS                    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
TOMAL AS!;ET                 226.48   292.74   416.76 468.73 538.53 605.29 723.95 847.12 922.34 935.91
Accts Payable                  3.12     3.59     6.42   5.01   5.61   6.26   8.56   9.39   8.26   7.16
Otber OurrO t Liabilities     10.34    11.71    13.56  16.01  18.71  23.35  28.50  32.41  37.05  42.35
Srrent IturJlo-Tem Dbt         1.66     1.76     1.88   2.00   9.17   9.83  11.00  15.98  21.29  25.00
TUoL caRRB  LTAi[sTfLxS       15.12    17.06    21.86  23.02  33.19  39.44  48.06  57.78  66.60  74.51
Otber liabilties               o.o0     0.00     0.00   o.o0   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
loag-Term Debt (net)         124.82   186.60   306.00 368.43 429.50 481.97 582.44 686.00 739.22 733.06
TOMYL ITZA=Uf                139.94   203.66   327.86 391.45 463.00 521.41 630.50 743.78 805.82 807.57
Asses Revabsaion Suplus        0.00     o.       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
peratiomal Surplus (+)        -5.30   -2.76    -2.94 -14.56 -20.30 -11.96  -2-3F-  7.52  20.63  33.19
Capital                       91.84    91.84    91.84  91.84  95.84  95.84  95.81  95.82  95.90  95.15
TOM. NCJ1VY                   86.5'    89.08    88.90  77.28  75.53  83.88  93.45 10.34 116.53 128.34
TOML NCpflY AND LITAMIES    226.48   292.74   416.76 468.73 538.53 605.29 723.95 847.12 922.34 935.91
Current Ratio                   1.4      1.9     1.9    1.7    1.4    1.7    1.9    2.0    2.3    2.4
Wbrking Capital. ec-rd. cash   833    13.20     9.41  16.84  21.03  26.08  28.97  33.12  35-3  47.93
2 Det an Det plus Xqity        59.4%    67.92    77.6%  82.7%  85-M  85.42  86A.   87.22 86.7n  85.5Z
#Ds Acmuot Receivable           27       55       34     34     35     34      34     35     35     35
2 Ddbt/(Net Fixed Asses 4Th)    62Z      72%      82M    86    89%    912    942    962    99%   10(K
16-Ju86 [Social BModo rechiced to I3 an Jn.86  ff TarifE Tncr. of 32 an Sep.86, 22 on Jai., 2Q  n Jan.91]



- 56 -
ANN     7
MALAYSrA
JOIR WAT  SUPPLY PROJEC
Monitoring  cndiators /a
1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992
Water CUD)
Population
Total population ('000)                      1,559.6
Population served ('000)                     1,339.0
Population served CZ)                           72.0
Demand
Number of connecdtion  ('OOQ)                  243.5
Water self-prodaced (mn  l)                     80.2
Water purchased (=In a)                         61-4
Total water ln stem  (ln  3)                   141.6
Unaccounted-for uter (Z)                        35.0
Water sold (mil  ml                             92.1
Financlal
Water sold (MS mn1)                             42.2
Average tariff (MS)                              0.46
Operating ratio CZ)                             95.3
Debt service ratio                               2.6
Contribution to lavestment (C)                   5.0
ColLection as X of billin8g
Industrial                                     -
Residential
Hanagement
Days accounts receivable                        34.0
lkber of employees                               -
Employees/1,000 connnections
nvestment
TIRD project investment (M$ mln)                 -
Other investment (MS min)                       121
IBRD project disbursements (MS nln)              0.0
Physical
umbrr of new industrial connectLons
Nmber of new residential connections
Distribution pipes (200 a  dia tad above) laid kos
Formal training provided to technical staff (man-hours)
Formal training provlded to financial staff (mn-hours)
S completion of Large civil works contracts
Revised construction schedule
Revised project cost
fa Currently projected fiLgres are indicated under Annex 6, Attachment 1.



- 57 -
ANNEX 8
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project Files
Studies
1.   Johor Bahru New Water Supply Scheme:  (Renardet Engineering), Nov.
1984, Engineering Design and Land Acquisition Report.
2.   West Johor Water Supply Project:  (RAnhill Bersekutu), Nov. 1984, Pre-
liminary Engineering Report.
3.   Kluang Water Supply Project:  (Kemas-Enex), August 1984, Feasibility
Report.
Working Papers
5.   Statistical tables Kl and K2 prepared F-JKR on Johor State Water
Supply Systems.
6.   Laws of Malaysia:
Act 230, State Water Supply Fund (Financial and Accounting Proced-
ure) Act, 1980
Act 133, Street, Drainage and Building Act, 1974.
7.   Procedures for Local Bidding (Civil Works).  Treasury Circular #12 of
1984.
8.   Minutes of meeting between IBRDIJS-JKR and Renardet, March 1984, with
attachments on Urban Growth Data and Urban Population Projections.
9.  Operational and Financial Statements for Water Department 1980-82-82 and
data for 1983-1984.
10. Financial Projections: Various alternatives, Feb. 1985. (as attachment
to letter to JS-JKR of Feb. 27, 1985).
11. Manpower Inventory, Forecast and Training Assessment: Mission Report of
Ms. T. Mendoza dated October 1984, completed during Nov/Dec
Appraisal.
12. Organizational Charts (2) of pronosed Johor State Water Department, dated
September 11, 1984.
13. Economic Calculations: Computer printouts for ERRs and Average Incre-
mental Costs of Water Supply Components.



a   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
X W <        ,   ' 5Xl''lL l' "Ii



MALAYS
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Propced Osganallotn StNCture ono Sliad"   *lW d tin Wait DOepafrnen
wet ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Le isi s
*m   IA3                    TA)?      A)?     lAce      IAS                  A1
C~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA
Iral .iw he                                                                                            _ s.Erl
Ac)  Ac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W() gJwi                                        .0()cfwl
a                                             AItP I                                                                                   At (I)   ANC 0)
9~~~~t W(1 tmls% IhlA 9
V'C, EA nS AW 3E
('qiAs   ESw AaflM 
*L  I MSLE1E    I Ew3                                                                                                                1 
C Cii   C,,C,,
ELbchh tlW m  
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-" mai                                                  m



10io40'                                                        0360              %to Metoing     Sedili                   1041000'
M A L A Y S I A                                              K     rlsota Tinggi
U                       ~~~~~~~~~~~10dw ft  IsR~  lrft
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                    SUJNGAI                         A we               .
Johor Bahru Water Supply Scheme: Phase lB                                                                               k T JOHOR    g  Sam
UNCER                                                                                                      as1. F?. =1=10a 0.1 '
E/XIS1nNO CONSTLUtON PROJECTr                                                                                     Nop*FA10, Cc
-         -              Water supply mains                          /  
1040'                                         ( 0    Pumping stations                              1N 140
oanch                        /                      Water treatment plants
,<  (21-   ~     V\XXj   Dame and reservoirs
Kulal                               O             Service reservoirs
I9~J  Distribution systems to be improved  A 
Roads                                              '
-\----I--Railways                                        6          ' R         R ,
International boundaries                                             CHABANG TIRAM
Senai              0       2                                            Ulu Tiram                  pumpng station
KILOMETERS                                                                  T
~~~~~~ -I~~~~~~~~~~~-
PelangPia 
t   <@~~~~~~~Kmpas     g^/ frNaf  
_f:IER
E              I 0
a1o,o4p'/- 1SUDo                                                                     j-                                ,K-i60       . 
KONG KONG,~ ~~~~~C



[ORD 1St
-   M                                                                            aA  /             \          K                                               /                                      /
\    7       ~~~~Kg. G
IND~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~'
- '-. !ND r2tstuu ONE7                                                                                           f2MSIA                                                                     ALAYSIA
.at A   %     /                                                              RSerml P.anG RX  ~~~~~~~~~JOHOR WATER SUPPLY AND SANITA:llON PROJECT
tgO   /   \                /                     |                                                                         t       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bat Pahat and Kduang Wmle Supply Scheme
sm-a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~ ~      ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~wU2-tlt
f  zz  1% Mmpk Belsu e/     \              (                     | Yong Begra
Pa\ l                                                          '                             I                           _    _    _ ahtersrPpbrlairs
. Tengkaeg Pedat,    (                                                                                                    ZL AyD            Pig s
K   4;      -          \&                                                                       e                                    _    Dbtribution s?slem tJ br improwd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dst.b. .W  1 b i.p..
w -Ba t   Paha  t a md Kl g  W      Sceene )
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        Wate nal _ma_,  mRod
r                                                                                  ---+- R           I-ihailways
j.a___~ta          ,o                      1,0    'F        Q P\e i\'t Dams and teservairs
__________Ri-______                                 Reo
aN .rnn. O                                               i                                                                                                                  I; c*- NEms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       ,t_                        1_,15                                                     am.3s






