Docu ment of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
Rqert No. P-4077-A
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt62.0 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
FOR THE
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Februarv 5, 1986
This dormant bh  a ritet  dilbuion sd my he urse by recpients oly In the pefenmmnce of
their offieid dties lbs eteou may o otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank anthorztdon-



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ringgit (M$)
Average 1984           October 1985
US$1.00   =    M$2.34          M$2.43
M$1.00   =   US$0.43          M$0.41
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UNITS OF MEASUREMENTS
mn        meter                 (1 m = 3.28 feet)
m2 =    square meter            (1 m2 = 10.76 square feet)
m3   =    cubic meter           (1 m3 = 35.3 cu. ft. = 264.2 US gallons)
km   =    kilometer             (1 km   0.62 mil s)
ha   =    hectare               (1 ha = 10,000 i = 2.47 acres)
lcd  =    Liters per capita
per day             (1 liter = 0.001 i3)
Mld  =    MegaLiters per day  (1 MLd = 1,000 m /d   0.264 million gallons
per day)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -    Asian Development Bank
AGD      -    Accountant General's Department
EPU      -    Economic Planning Unit
F-JKR    -    Federal Department of Public Works
GOM      -    Federal Government of Malaysia
ICB      -    InternationaL Competitive Bidding
is       -    Johor State
JS-JKR   -    Johor State Department of Public Works
LCB      -    Local Competitive Bidding
MHLG     -    Federal Ministry of Housing and Local Government
PIU      -    Project Implementation Unit
S-JKR    -    State Department of Public Works
WD       -    Water Department



FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Malaysia
Beneficiaries:      Johor State and Federal Public Works Department
Amount:             US$62.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Relending Terms:   The Federal Government of Malaysia would onlend US$61.7
million of the loan proceeds to the Johor State Government
for 25 years including 5 years of grace, 55Z of this amount
for the urban component at an interest rate of 7.5Z per
annum, and the remainder for the rural componenL at 4Z per
annum. The Federal Government would retain US$0.3 million
for training ictivities, and would bear the foreign
exchange risk on the full amount of the loan.
Project
Description:      The project would expand water supply infrastructure
systems in three of the eight districts of the State of
Johor. Water services would be improved for about one
million persons and expanded to serve 370,000 additional
persons by 1990, thus increasing the service level to, on
average, 86X of the population in the three districts. The
project would provide for: (a) the expansion of source
works serving the Johor Bahru district, which would result
in an additional supply of water of 90 Mld, and the
strengthening of the distribution systems; (b) the con-
struction of intake, pumping, transmission and distribution
works to provide an additional capacity of 60 Hld to the
Batu Pahat district; tc) the construction of intake, wells,
treatment, transmission and storage works to yield an addi-
tional 90 Mld to the Kluang district; (d) the establishment
of continuing in-house training capabilities at the federal
and Johor State levels; and (e) technical assistance and
consulting services for improving the Water Department's
technical operations, construction supervision, and block
mapping surveys and detailed engineering of the distribu-
tion networks.
The primary risk is that the new Water Department may not
functicn effectively without the recruitment of the pro-
posed number of staff and the introduction of a commercial
accounting system. Furthermore, in the past, the sector
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



has had difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified
and experienced staff. The project, therefore, incLudes
institutional support and staff training in order to
minimize these risks.
Project Costs:                                      Local     Foreign   Total
----  (US$ million)…
Water Supply
Civil works                                         23.7       15.1      38.8
Equipment                                           18.0      29.0       47.0
Training                                               0.2        1.0        1.2
Engineering                                            3.2        2.1       5.3
Land Acquisition                                       4.8          -       4.8
Base Cost                                        49.9      47.2       97.1
Physical contingencies                                 5.0        4.7       9.7
Price contingencies                                    7.8       10.1       17.9
Total Project Cost /a                            62.7      62.0      124.7
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                                   -      62.0       62.0
Federal Government                                  62.7          -      62.7
Total Financing                                     62.7       62.0     124.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY     1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
… - - - (--- -----------US$ million) …--- --
Annual                      2.0      4.1     8.7    12.9    12.9    12.8        8.6
Cumulative                  2.0      6.1    14.8    27.7    40.6    53.4    62.0
Rate of Return:    7.7Z
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5659-MA, dated January 10, 1986
Maps:  IBRD Nos. 18823 and 18821
/a Including duties and taxes estimated at US$8.0 million equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR THE JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Malaysia, for the equivalent of US$62.0 million, to help finance the Johor
Water Supply Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Apart from
US$0.3 million, the amount of the loan would be onlent by Malaysia to Johor
State for 25 years, including 5 years of grace, 55% of this amount at an
interest rate of 7.5% per annum, and the remainder at 4Z per annum. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by Malaysia.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia: Development Strategies and
their Financing" (No. 5560-MA), is dated September 3, 1985. This section
reflects also the findings of a Bank mission which visited Malaysia in
July 1985 for a general economic review with particular emphasis on agricul-
ture and industry.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,990 in 1984 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita CDP growth has
averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4Z p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors, including the country's wealth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; favorable developments in the world economy; good economic
and financial management; and, not least, stable social and political institu-
tions. Three specific elements have been important: first, substantial
attention and priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high pro-
ductivity gains in the sector which have cushioned against occasional steep
price declines; second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12% per
annum, in the last two decades, following first an import substituting
pattern, but later increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very
open economy, with exports and imports recently averaging more than 50X of
GDP, exports have diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber and
tin to include palr oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Land Settlement Infrastructure (Report No. P-4130-MA, dated November
19, 1985), approved by the Board of Executive Directors on December 10,
1985.



- 2 -
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55% of the
population indigenous Malays, 35% Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between
ethnic communities, and has also been struggling with a serious poverty prob-
lem. The incidence of poverty covers all ethnic groups, but remains dispro-
portionately high among Malays; their average per capita incomes were only
half those of the Chinese comnunity. In 1971, the Government declared a New
Economic Policy (NEP), and accorded the highest priority to eradicating
poverty and reducing thLe racial imbalances in income, employment, and owner-
ship of assets. Specific quantitative targets, to be achieved by 1990, were
established for these objectives. Particular emphasis has been given to
accelerated growth of the modern sector (i.e., outside traditional agricul-
ture), as about 1 miLlion jobs (or 90% of all new employment) need to be
created in the non-agricultural sectors during 1985-90.
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has replaced agriculture as the major contributor to GDP
and exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the cut-
ting edge of industrial growth. In particular, there has been a remarkable
and dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15 years.
Export diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum, and more
recently LNG) has proved important, as some of Malaysia's traditional major
foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin production has
steadily declined in the face of weak prices, the exhaustion of many mines,
and increasing costs of extraction. Although timber production has recently
been buoyant, exploitation of the resource has led to detrimental environ-
mental consequences, and the Government has plans for restricting logging in
the future. Finally, rubber productic.. has been fluctuating across a
declining trend for several years. While factors specific to the cultivation
of rubber have been at work, an important reason has been the migration of the
young and educated from the farms to the towns. This has fostered a major
structural change in the Malaysian economy, as it appears that the agricul-
tural Labor force may now be peaking in absolute numbers. In turn, this
suggests rather different strategies to be followed in the agricultural sector
in years to come, both to maintain agricultural production as well as to
tackle the large extant. problem of rural poverty. In recognition of this, the
Government has recently published a policy document to guide future agricul-
tural development which takes into account the emerging trends in the sector.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particularly true in the most recent international com-
modity price cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
timber, and petroleum increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 25Z in the same period, and real national
income grew by more than 11% p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 8%, representing a loss of
national income of about 5%. Anticipating, in 1980, a short international
recession, the Government introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain domes-
tic income levels. This combination of falling commodity prices and an expan-



3-
sionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to very large fiscal and balance
of payments deficits; thus, in 1981-82, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments averaged 11% of GNP, while the overall p:blic sector defi-
cit averaged 18Z of GNP. Overall, GDP growth averaged 6% p.a., and inflation
initially accelerated before falling to 6% in 1982.
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily, both domestically and abroad. Domestic borrowings were largely non-
inflationary, from the Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company and
the commercial banks. Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to GNP grew from
about 37Z to nearly 48Z between 1980 and 1982. Increasing proportions of the
deficits had to be financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed public
external debt almost doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16% to 32Z of GNP);
there was, in addition, an important shift in the sources of borrowing, away
from project financing towards market borrowings. Because of the low levels
of external borrowing of the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82 period
has not given rise to a high burden of debt service. As a proportion of
exports, debt service on private, public and publicly-guaranteed MLT debt was
11.9Z at the end of 1984.
8.        The unsustainability of deficits of the magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 has been clearly recognized by the Government, and a policy of
expenditure restraint was implemented through 1983-85 and strongly affirmed in
the 1986 budget. In the course of 1983-84, development expenditures of the
Federal Government fell by 20%, and the federal deficit was reduced substan-
tially - from 17.8% of GNP in 1982 to 7.1% in 1984. However, due to a con-
tinuing expansion in expenditures by other parts of the public sector, the
overall public sector deficit did not decrease as sharply as the federal
deficit. In addition, private sector investment expenditures rose by 23% in
real terms, reflecting largely the impact of higher outlays by quasi-public 2,
agencies currently misclassified under the national accounts in this sector.2
This offset to an extent the adjustments being made by the Federal Govern-
ment. As a result, the balance of payments current account deficit registered
only a small improvement - declining from 14.4% of GNP in 1982 to 11.72 in
1983. In 1984, the Government exerted greater control over the consolidated
public sector which, combined with continued restrictions on federal govern-
ment spending, helped to improve the current account deficit to the level of
5.8Z of GNP.
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery and continued
expenditure restraint by the Government, the fiscal and external deficits of
Malaysia should reach manageable levels over the medium term. With the heavy
borrowing recently undertaken, and with anticipation of future, albeit lower,
external deficits, the debt service ratio will increase later in the decade.
It is expected, however, to stabilize at acceptable leveLs (between 15%-20Z of
exports). At the same time, the present and ongoing expenditure retrenchment,
2/   According to the classification of the Government, major off-budget
agencies like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOM (the heavy
industry corporation) are not included in the public sector.



although starting from a high level, has placed the public investment budget
under strain, and is likely to affect future growth prospects. In this
regard, it is becoming increasingly important for the Government to ensure the
efficiency of the public sector investment program. Recognition has also been
given by the Government to the need to tackle some of the economy's structural
difficulties. As noted above, a National Agricultural Policy has been
announced. A comprehensive review of development strategy is contained in the
Mid-Term Review of the Fourth Malaysia Plan released in April 1984; among the
initiatives already announced is proposed "privatization" of many public
sector activities. Industrial studies (on export and production incentives)
are being undertaken, in conjunction with the Bank, to ensure the continued
contribution of this important sector to the economy. A series of initiatives
to sustain development are being discussed in the context of preparations for
the Fifth MaLaysia Plan (1986-90), albeit in more difficult financial circum-
stances than were foreseen before the onset of the recession.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA 3/
10.       The Bank has, to date, approved 65 loans to Malaysia, totalling
US$1,665.68 million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power,
water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
transport. As of September 30, 1985, the effective loans to Malaysia held by
the Bank amounted to US$1,289.50 million; a total of 43 loans to Malaysia had
been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IFC
investments.
11.       In recent years, the Eank's lending strategy towards Malaysia has
aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate poverty in the country. The
Covernment's thrust in this area has been twofold: first, to maintain a high
overall rate of growth for the economy and thus facilitate and encourage a
labor shift from low to higher wage occupations; second, to raise the produc-
tivity and incomes of farmers directly through a variety of agricultural
projects and programs as most poverty is concentrated in the rural areas. The
Bank has been associated with both aspects of this strategy - by assisting the
Government to overcome impediments to growth (for example, by lending for
vocational education and for power) and also by lending for a long sequence of
agricultural projects. These have indeed enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreign exchange earn-
ings of the country, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
12.       Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has not dimi-
nished in the wake of the recent economic difficulties. As noted, these
difficulties are in part structural, fostered by very rapid and successful
3/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Land Settlement Infrastructure Projecc (Report No. P-4130-MA, dated
November 19, 1985), approved by the Board of Executive Directors on
December 10, 1985.



- 5 -
countercyclical policies. Tackling these problems, which entail tight fiscal
and foreign exchange constraints likely to persist for some time, has become
the dominant objective of economic management.
13.       In its lending strategy, the Bank intends to continue lending to
agriculture and thus tackle poverty directly. At the same time, recognizing
the changed economic situation and prospects, and responding to a Government
request, the Bank is also assisting in sectors where serious structural prob-
lems or institutional deficiencies exist. Thus, the Bank plans to lend to
such sectors as education, transport, power, water supply, and industry, and
thus to make a more diversified as well as substantial contribution to
alleviating Malaysia's balance of payments and fiscal constraints over the
medium term.
14.       Although overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, it has in recent years been seriously affected
by the country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in
project disbursements, which dropped from US$137 million in FY83 to
US$87 million in FY84 and to US$100 million in FY85. Disbursement per-
formance, measured in terms of the rates of actual disbursements to cumulative
undisbursed amounts, was 0.22 in FY83, 0.14 in FY84, and 0.17 in FY85
(compared to regional averages of 0.20, 0.21, and 0.22 respectively, in the
same years).
15.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding, the major problems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia have been: delays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and the
limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting
industry. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project imple-
mentation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala Lumpur
(the last one on November 1985). These reviews and the corrective action taken
by the agencies subsequently are having a positive impact on project implemen-
tation and disbursements. Further reviews will be undertaken with the
Malaysian authorities when necessary. It is also proposed to continue to
reinforce the implementation reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements
and procurement (the last disbursement seminar took place in September 1985,
and the next procurement seminar is scheduled for early 1986) for the benefic
of the implementing agencies.
16.       IFC has made six investments -n Malaysia rotalling US,21.19 mil-
lion. The total investments held by IF', as 3f September 30, L985, amounted
to US$12.50 million (Annex It).
17.       At end-1984, Malaysia's debt service ratio on private, public and
publicly guaranteed debt was about 12%.  In the same year, debt service on
Bank obligations constituted about 8% of total debt service. With the rapid
increase in market borrowings in the last three years, the proportion of Bank
disbursed debt in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15% in 1979-80 to
less than 5% at end-1984. Various projections, on a variety of assumptions,
suggest that the Bank share in debt service and total disbursed debt of
Malaysia is likely to remain well below 10% through the rest of the decade.



-6-
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Introduction
18.       Some 70l  of Malaysia's land area is composed of hills and mountains,
most of which are covered by tropical rainforests. Average rainfall for
Peninsular Malaysia at 3,000 - 4,000 mm comes in two distinct seasons, and
provides ample water resources to the Peninsula; however, it frequently causes
widespread flooding in the East Coast States. In 1984, the country had an
estimated population of 15.3 million and a population density of 45 persons/
sq km. Of the total population, 35Z live ir communities of 10,000 or more and
are classified as urban population, while the rest is classified as rural.
Urbanization has been rapid and, by the end of the century, the urban popula-
tion is expected to increase to about 50X of the total projected populatica of
21 million. This rapid urbanization has stretched all urban services, includ-
ing water supply. Since the 1970s, the Government has placed increasing prio-
rity on development of infrastructure services. Particular emphasis has been
given to water supply, where service levels have improved markedly, although
other services (sanitation, drainage) are still lagging. While waterborne
diseases have declined steadily since the early-1970s, gastroenteritis,
cholera and typhoid remain endemic, mostly in rural areas.
Sector Organization
19.       While the provision of water supply is a state responsibility, the
Federal Government retains significant planning, financing and advisory func-
tions for the water supply and sanitation sector. The Economic Planning Unit
(EPU) of the Prime Minister's Department determines overall sector investments
as part of its responsibility for development planning. The Ministry of
Housing and Local Government (MHLG) has administrative control of local
government affairs, and is technically responsible for all urban sanitation at
the federal level. The water supply branch of the Federal Public Works
Department (F-JKR) is the central agency responsible for coordinating all
water supply activities executed through State Public Works Departments
(S-JKR), State Water Departments and Water Boards. The Environmental/Health
Engineering Unit of the Ministry of Health is responsible for rural water
supply and sanitation, and implements localized rural water supply projects to
supplement S-JKR or Water Board supplies. There is no overall coordinating
agency for water resources development.
20.       At the state level, the responsibility for providing water supply
for domestic and industrial use in towns and adjoining rural areas is assumed
by S-JKRs in all but four states where Water Departments and Boards are in
charge; these entities are in charge of design, implementation, operation - a
maintenance under the guidance of F-JKR. While most states still entrust the
management of water supply activities to a division under S-JKR, a more recent
trend has been to establish a separate water department directly responsible
to the State Secretary in order to achieve more effective management of the
facilities.



-7-
Sector Financing and Tariffs
21.       Investments in water supply are usually financed through federal
loans and, to a small extent, through foreign loans. After construction, such
projects are handed over to the state water entity (Piard or S-JKR) for
operation and maintenance, which also assumes the corresponding debt ser-
vice.  Current loans from the Federal Government (COM) for water supply have a
term of 25 years, with five years of grace, at 7.5% p.a. for urban systems and
4Z p.a. for rural systems. In the past, foreign loans were passed on to the
states on the same terms and conditions as the original loan. This tended to
cause inevitable distortions in investment priorities because of the widely
different terms of different foreign lenders, and between foreign and domestic
loans. Consequently, CON has now adopted a uniform policy for lending and
onlending, irrespective of the source of funding.
22.       Water tariffs are approved by the respective State Executive Coun-
cils, and are uniform statewide, but different for residential and commercial
users. Residential tariffs are progressive, i.e., increase with consumption.
Although there is no prescribed GOM policy on tariffs, guidelines to states
require that tariffs provide adequate revenues to cover the costs of operation
and debt service and to make some contribution to capital investment. Compli-
ance varies from state to state, but GON has been bringing pressure on the
states in recent years to eliminate subsidies. For sewerage systems, a sur-
charge added to water bills or a speciaL assessment on sewered properties is
presently levied in the few cities with sewerage installations.
Service Levels
23.       About 66Z of Malaysia's population was served by piped water in 1983
compared to 51X in 1970. Service levels are significantly higher (91%) in
urban areas (populations of more than 10,000), where high population densities
and polluted private sources leave no alternative to public water supply.
However, many urban areas suffer from restricted supply, frequent low pressure
and inadequate distribution networks. The quality of treated water and the
levei of operations are fair to poor. Water produced for urban systems aver-
ages about 230 liters per capita per day (lcd) of which about 25% is estimated
to serve industrial, commercial and governmental needs. However, 20 - 40% of
the water produced is unaccounted-for, largely due to leakage, unregistered
consumption and faulty metering of production facilities. Some leak detection
and control programs are being implemented in a few states using external
funding, but this remains a limited activity. Under the Government's rural
water supply and sanitation program, which aims at serving population clusters
of less than 1,000, a variety of gravity systems, tubewells, hydraulic rams
and rainwater storage schemes operated and maintained at thp village level
provide untreated water, but of reasonable quality. It is government policy
that the majority cf the rural population should eventually have piped water
supply systems and generally be served by house connections. As a first step,
the reticulation systems of urban water supplies are being extended to serve
the adjacent rural population. in the early 1980s, 40% of the total rural
population was served by house connections.



- 8 -
24.       Compared to water supply, construction of sewage disposal systems
has lagged far behind the increase in urban population. The proportion of the
urban population without adequate sanitation was estimated at 47% in 1980,
including an estimated 162 without any excreta disposal facility. Depending
on their population and number of housing units, new developments in urban
arcas are required to include sewers and oxidation ponds, communal tanks or
individual household septic tanks. With increasing budgetary constraints,
there is a realization that conventionaL water-borne sewerage for all may not
be achievable in the near future. These policies are now being revised by
MHLG to allow and promote the use of effective and cheaper, on-site, low-cost
sanittion alternatives for areas which do not immediately require central
sewerage systems.
Sector Developments
25.       Sector investments increased from M$150 million under the First
Malaysia Plan (1966-1970) to an estimated M$2,560 million under the Fourth
Plan (1981-1985) and are expected to reach similar levels under the Fifth Plan
(1986-90). Investment levels have usually been about 3.5 - 4Z of public deve-
lopment expenditures, and exclude state contributions and contributions from
users. Government objectives, as stated in its mid-term review of the Fourth
Plan, are to promote a rational allocation of water resources, to review the
institutional organization for water supply, and to increase the efficiency of
water supply development and management. Emphasis is also placed on the opera-
tions and maintenance of water supply which would reduce unaccounted-for
water. The overall targets of the ongoing plan are: (a) the completion of
water supply projects that will benefit 94% of the urban population and 66% of
the rural population in peninsular Malaysia; and (b) the construction of two
sewerage schemes and the completion of sewerage studies for all other major
urban centers. However, given the financial constraints that have emerged in
recent years, these objectives are carried over to the Fifth Plan.
Sector Issues and Constraints
26.       Manpower.  A key constraint to progressive institutional development
of the sector and to the creation of separate self-accounting State Water De-
partments is the lack of trained manpower. Throughout the country, the water
sector has difficulty in attracting and retaining suitably qualified and ex-
perienced staff. This is particularly critical at the middle and lower tech-
nician levels where, on average, less than 20Z of existing 3taff ha.e minimum
entry qualifications. Furthermore, professional staff (engineers and accoun-
tants) seconded by F-JKR and the Accountant-General's Department (AGD) to
3-JKR water supply divisions or departments, may initially have lirtle or no
sector experience, and may be rotated to another unrelated sector by the time
they have gained this experience. Solutions to these complex personnel and
staff development problems will take time, and may require policy review and
modifications at the national level. Staff training programs, although only a
pa-tial solution. can make a significant contribution to institutional
development.



- 9 -
27.       Operations and Maintenance of Water Supply Systems.  Water supply
systems, built according to guidelines set up by F-JKR, are operated and main-
tained by the state water entities within a-ailabLe budgetary provisions.  As
water supply is often only part of a department with other functiors, and
accounts, offices, workshops and stores are not separated, insufficient atten-
tion is given to regular systems maintenance; familiarity with operations is
also lacking. There are usually more attractions to extend existing reticula-
tion networks and build new facilities than to make do with existing ones.
Consequently, maintenance is generally not up to acceptable standards, while
new investments are overdesigned. There is, however, a growing awareness at
the state and federal levels of the need to maintain systems, train staff for
this purpose and design facilities in line with optimal operations. The
proposed project as well as those being prepared would support these needs.
28.       Financial.  At present, water departments or divisions of the S-JKRs
lack appropriate accounting systems to provide adequate and timely financial
information as a basis for rational investment decisions and pricing policies.
In states where water supply is part of a S-JKR, water revenues flow into the
State Government's consolidated fund, but are sometimes diverted to other
pressing short-term needs to the detriment of water operations. In 1980, GOM
introduced the State Water Supply Fund Act which established financiai and
accounting procedures to be followed by the states for the control and manage-
ment of water supply funds. However, mainly due to a shortage of adequately
experienced personnel, progress has been extremely slow in implementing the
Act at the state level. The ACD is expected to provide assistance and train-
ing required by the states to implement the Act and, for the present project,
has agreed to help the Johor Water Department in training accounting staff,
preparing the opening financial statements, and implementing and subsequently
monitoring the commercial accounting system.
29.       Greater Emphasis on Sanitation Investments.  The present division of
responsibility for water supply and sanitation in separate organizations has
led to relatively large investments in water supply but comparatively little
attention to improving sanitation. Malaysia has not constructed major sewer-
age systems, and has relied mainly on night soil coLlection systems, septic
tanks and subdivisional sewers with oxidation ponds. However, increasing
urban population and density, high water consumption commensurate with its
high income, and industrialization have resulted in a pressing need to improve
sanitation services and reduce pollution and potential health risks. The EPU
has become aware of the need to better integrate the planning of the two ser-
vices, and this need is reflected in its guidelines for preparation of the
Fifth Plan. A sanitation component, prepared as a pilot project for Johor
Bahru under this project, was eventually deleted following the Municipal
Council's decision not to borrow for this component and to implement it with
its own funds. Discussions are now underway with the federal authorities to
prepare a sanitation project, covering a number of cities which have high
priority, for eradicating unsanitary disposal systems while at the same time
developing low-cost technical solutions and cost recovery systems from end-
users.



- 10 -
Experience with Past Lending and Bank Objectives
30.       The Bank made three Loans to the Malaysian water supply and sanita-
tion sector between 1968 and 1976, but was, thereafter, inactive in the sector
because of priority given to rural deveLopment. Two Loans (Ln. 561-MA of
US$3.6 million and Ln. 908-MA of US$13.5 million) for the Kuala Lumpur/
Selangor Water Supply projects were completed by 1976 and 1981, respectively,
and one loan (Ln. 1213-MA of US$21.5 million) for the Kuala Lumpur Sewerage
project was completed recently. The projects achieved their physical objec-
tives of increasing the capacity of the respective systems and, thereby,
enabling the utilities to improve and extend service. Consistent with one of
the Bank's main objectives for its involvement in the sector, the three
projects also aimed at institutional development and financial viability of
the respective entities; however, in this respect the water supply projects
achieved only partial success. A separate Selangor Water Department was crea-
ted, but several positions remained vacant and a commercial type accounting
system feLl into disuse because of staff shortages and inexperience. The
financial results, though marginally acceptable, could have been better. In
particular, a higher level of self-financing of the entity's investment pro-
gram would have been possible if management had applied for appropriate and
timely tariff increases. Continuing delays in the preparation of accounts
inhibited sound financial planning and management. The Project Performance
Audit Reports (SecM83-12 and SecM76-538) highlighted these deficiencies. The
sewerage project appears to have achieved both its physical and institutional
objectives. It is well managed, and its financial position is satisfactory.
31.       In the future, the Bank's renewed involvement in the sector would:
(a) aim at institutional development in the water supply sector through the
creation of separate water departments or autonomous entities, the
introduction of commercial-type accounting systems, and the implementation of
staff development and training programs; (b) focus on introduction of adequate
tariff structures and their periodic reviews; (c) contribute to the develop-
ment of low-cost solutions for application in the sewerage/sanitation subsec-
tor and of appropriate cost recovery systems from end-users; and (d) promote
greater coordination in the planning and implementation of water supply and
sanitation investments.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
0roject Origin and Formulation
32.       The proposed project is an important part of COM and Johor State
(JS) plans to upgrade and expand water services in JS. The project was iden-
tified in January 1984 during discussions between COM and the Bank on the
revised investment priorities of GOM in light of the recent financial con-
straints and on the possibility of increased Bank assistance. The proposed
project is of high priority for GOM and JS, and would follow-up on a first
phase project financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and expected to be
completed by February 1986. The project was appraised in November/December
1984. Negotiations were held in November 1985. The Malaysian delegation was
led by Mr. Yahya Yaacob, Deputy Secretary of the Federal Treasury. A Staff



- 11 -
Appraisal Report is being distributed separately. A supplemental data sheet
is attached as Annex III.
Project Area and Demand
33.       The three districts of JS covered under the project have a popula-
tion estimated at about 1 million. They have large present and projected
urban populations (57Z of total in 1990 and 63% in 1995), caused in part by
the shift in their economy from agriculture to industry, stimulated by the
relocation to JS of labor-intensive industries from Singapore. While the
population in the project areas has grown at a composite rate of 2.5Z p.a.
over the 1970s, urban growth is currently projected at around 4% p.a. through
2000. Low water pressures on networks in urban areas, and water shortages and
rationing in rural areas are quite common. Given the population and indus-
trial growth of the region, these water shortages are expected to continue to
worsen, despite some interim investments by the Government of Johor, until the
proposed project is completed in two of the three districts. In the Johor
Bahru district, the current purchases obtained from the treatment plants,
owned by Singapore's Public Utilities Board in JS, far exceed the contracted
amounts; the ADB-financed production works would not permit reducing these
purchases to contractual amounts without further source development. The
water demand in the three districts is expected to increase from 256 Mld in
1984 to 510 Mld in 1995, including 110 Mld for industrial development areas.
The average water demand is estimated to increase from the present 200 Lcd to
270 lcd for the urban centers and 220 Lcd for smaller communities by 1995,
including 15 - 20% for industrial requirements.
Rationale for Bank Support and Project Objectives
34.       The proposed project includes the construction of necessary water
supply infrastructure as well as the promotion of more capable and better
coordinated water supply institutions. At present, those institutions are
reasonably experienced in implementing a program of physical works, but are
still weak in planning, coordinating and managing water supply facilities.
Therefore, the rationale of Bank support for water supply projects in Malaysia
is to strengthen management capabilities and introduce sound financial con-
cepts and practices. Bank involvement has already resulted in the selection
of the least-cost investment proposal and deferral of some lower priority
investments.
35.       The objectives of the proposed project would be to:  (a) improve
service from piped water supply to existing consumers and to extend it to new
consumers in the JB metropolitan area and in the urban and rural areas of the
Batu Pahat and Kluang districts; (b) reduce the dependence of JS on
Singapore's water supplies; and (c) strengthen water supply activities in the
State through the creation of a separate and financially viable Water Depart-
ment (WD) and the development of adequate institutional measures (manpower
development and training, commercial accounting and improved financial
management).



- 12 -
Project Description
36.       Thie project would consist of the following principaL components:
(a) Construction of production, treatment, transmission, storage and
distribution works to augment water supplies for three districts of
Johor State (Johor Bahru, Batu Pahat and Kluang). Total production
capacity is expected to increase by 240 Mld. Population served in
the project areas would increase by 370,000 from 66Z served now to
89% in 1995. Physical facilities to be provided include an earth-
fill estuary barrage; two treatment plants and a well field; pumping
stations; about 220 km of transmission mains; some 18 balancing
reservoirs; and workshops, stores, offices and equipment for the
Water Department. In addition, existing distribution systems would
be rehabilitated and strengthened;
(b) Establishment of a continuing in-house training capability in the
Water Department through the construction of a training center and
provision of technical assistance to train trainers and to develop a
training program. At the F-JKR level, the project would establish
and support a permanent training section to assist state water
entities in training for senior staff and for assessing their
manpower and training needs; and
(c) Provision of consultancy services for the supervision of construc-
tion, mapping and leak detection surveys, detailed designs of
distribution networks, and technical assistance for training.
Project Implementation
37.       The project would be implemented over a period of six years from
early-1986 to end-1991. The management and coordination of water supply
activities among contractors, consultants and government agencies would, prior
to the establishment of the WD, be undertaken through a recently established
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by a project manager directly
responsible to the JS-JKR director. Once the WD is established and operating
efficiently, the PIU would be phased out, and its responsibilities would be
taken over by the WD. The staffing of the PIU is satisfactory, and the staff-
ing of the WD was reviewed and agreed during negotiations. Local consultants
associated with foreign consulting firms (Rankine of Australia, Renardet of
France and John Taylor of the U.K.), with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank, have been appointed for the design and construction
supervision of the three districts component components. Most of the land
required for construction of the civil works has been surveyed, and its
acquisition is not expected to delay construction.
Project Costs and Financing
38.       The cost of the project, including taxes and duties estimated at
about US$8.0 million, is estimated at US$124.7 million (M$311.8 million) of
which US$62.0 million (M$155 million) or about 49.7% is the foreign exchange
component. The base costs are expressed in December 1985 prices to which a



- 13 -
physical contingency of 10% is added. Price increases for domestic costs are
assumed to be 5% throughout the project period, and for foreign costs 7% in
1986 and 1987, 7.5%, 7.7% and 7.6% for 1988, 1989 and 1990, respectively, and
4.5% thereafter. Price contingencies amount to 16.7% of total base costs plus
physical contingencies. Cost estimates are based on detailed designs for
components amounting to 60% of project costs, and preliminary engineering and
updated F-JKR rates and prices for the remaining components. The cost of con-
sultant services under the project is estimated to total US$5.3 million.
39.       The proposed Bank loan of US$62.0 million would finance 53.1% of
total costs, net of duties and taxes, and would cover the foreign exchange
cost of the project. Local costs would be financed through a federal loan of
US$62.7 million equivalent to JS. The Bank loan would be made to GOM which
would bear the foreign exchange risk. All proceeds of the Bank loan, with the
exception of US$300,000 for training activities at the F-JKR level, and the
federal loan would be passed on to JS as follows: in accordance with GOM's
standard terms and conditions for water supply (para. 21) US$68.4 million cor-
responding to urban-related investments would be onlent at 7.5% interest rate,
and US$56.0 million corresponding to rural-related investments at 4% interest
rate, over 25 years including five years of grace. The standard rates were
recently revised by the Government to bring them more closely in line with the
projected medium-term inflation rate (5%). They are considered reasonable
given the social nature of the sector investments. The terms and conditions
of loans to the water supply sector, and the need for a periodic review, were
discussed at negotiations. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between
COM and JS would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Procurement and Disbursements
40.       The majority of civil works (US$38.6 million) and goods
(US$56.1 million) for the project would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank procurement guidelines. ICB would be
used for all civil works costing more than US$2 million and goods costing more
than US$250,000. A preference margin of the lower of import taxes or 15% of
the c.i.f. value would be granted for materials and equipment to domestic
manufacturers in bid evaluation. Smaller civil works and goods contracts,
totalling about US$8.7 million and US$3.5 million, respectively, wouLd be
awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Similarly, small purchases of equipment of less than US$100,000, total-
ling less than US$1.5 million, would be awarded through limited international
shopping, with at least three quotations. Packaging of the major contracts
has been arranged to ensure efficient project implementation and reasonable
competition. The values of ICB contracts are expected to range from US$2.0 -
8.0 million for civil works and US$0.3-5.0 million for equipment. It is
expected that several civil works and a few supply contracts would be won by
local contractors. Advance contracting is currently foreseen for a few supply
and civil works contracts which would be awarded by February 1986, and
retroactive financing up to US$2.0 million is being provided for consultant
and equipment expenditures incurred after May 31, 1985. Advertisements and
bid documents have been prepared following Bank guidelines.



- 14 -
PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Total
Project Element               ICB        LCB        Other     N.A.       cost
Civil works                  38.6        8.7         4.0       5.7/a    57.0
(19.3)     (4.3)       (0)        (0)      (23.6)
Goods                        56.1        3.5         1.5        -        61.1
(29.8)     (2.0)       (1.0)        -      (32.8)
Training and con-
sulting services             -          -          6.6        -         6.6
(5.6)                (5.6)
Total                        94.7       12.2        12.1       5.7      124.7
(49.1)     (6.3)       (6.6)      (0)      (62.0)
/a   Land acquisition
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by Bank loan.
41.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of imported equipment; 100% of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment; and 75Z of local expenditures for equipment
and materials procured locally; (b) 502 of total expenditures for civil works;
(c) 70Z of the cost of consulting services; and (d) 100% of the cost of train-
ing services. Disbursements made under contracts for equipment and materials
costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or less, and totalling no more than
US$500,000, would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure; documen-
tation would be retained by the PIU or WD and reviewed by Bank supervision
missions. All other disbursements would be fully documented. A Special
Account corresponding to four-months' expenditures would be established to
facilitate disbursements at the JS level. The loan is expected to be
disbursed over a period of seven years.
Johor State Water Department
42.       Currently, JS-JKR through its water division is responsible for
water supply activities in JS. Because JS-JKR is also responsible for roads
and public buildings, the water division shares with other divisions already
overcrowded offices and workshop facilities, both at headquarters and at each
of the eight districts. As a result, the operation and maintenance of the
water systems has suffered. Following a study of the water operations in JS
in 1983 by AGD and its recommendation for a greater degree of autonomy to imr
prove their effectiveness, JS has decided to establish a Water Department
(WD), separate from JS-JKR and directly accountable to the State Secretary
effective from January 1, 1987. JS has also decided to adopt the State Water
Supply Fund Act 1980 (para. 28). WD, as a department of JS, would remain



- 15 -
under the jurisdiction of the State for activities such as policy making,
approval of tariffs, and staffing.
43.       WD's proposed organization, which was prepared jointly by federal
and JS authorities, is reasonable and in line with requirements of water
supply service organizations.  Under the new organization, WD has some 1,600
authorized positions, as compared with the present staff of 972. The recruit-
ment of additional staff, which is under way and is expected to be completed
by mid-1986, is entrusted to the State Public Services Commission for the
technician, clerical and manual levels, and to F-JKR and AGD for the senior
technical and financial Levels. All staffing and recruitment schedules were
reviewed and agreed at negotiations, because appropriate staffing at key posi-
tions is vital for the effective start-up of WD as a separate department and
for the implementation of the commercial accounting system. Since frequent
rotation of staff, in particular the senior one, would be a serious hindrance
to WD's effectiveness, JS would relay its concern to the relevant federal
agencies regarding the senior staff, and would aim at maintaining the other
staff in their positions for 4 to 5 years.
44.       The only training facility now available to public works staff is a
F-JKR Training Institute in Selangor State, which provides little training
aimed at the water supply sector. The lack of practical training facilities
is particularly a problem for the technical staff responsible for systems
operation and maintenance.  This need would be addressed under the proposed
project by: (a) developing and providing priority training programs for the
technicians and operators of WD; and (b) expanding the training capacity for
engineers and trainers at F-JKR. The Johor facility would provide for about
30 training places and would be managed by a small cadre of training staff
with the assistance of two experts, whose terms of reference and schedule for
recruitment would be agreed at negotiations. The federal facility would
require the recruitment of four or five training officers, to be assisted by a
training consultant; a schedule for the approval of these positions and their
staffing was agreed at negotiations. The consultants would be financed from
the loan.
45.       The accounts of the water division are currently centralized at the
State Treasury and maintained under the traditional system of cash account-
ing. All revenues from the water division, though accounted for separately,
go into general revenues, and JS funds the division's capital and recurrent
expenditures through annual budget allocations. The division has prepared,
after long delays, notional annual income statements and balance sheets,
reconstructed from cash accounts and memorandum records, but the information
herein is limited and somewhat unreliable. As a consequence, the present
accounting system contributes little to the efficient management and evalua-
tion of water activities. The project would address this problem by estab-
lishing a commercial accounting system in the proposed WD. AGD would assist
in the design, implementation and monitoring of the system and would provide
appropriate training to WD's staff. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions on the gazetting of WD and start-up of its operations by January 1, 1987
and on the establishment of a commercial accounting system by the same date.



- 16 -
46.       Meter reading and billing are decentralized at the district level,
and are reasonably satisfactory with regard to their timing and impact. Ac-
counts receivable represent about 40 days average billings, which is satisfac-
tory, and bad debts are negligible. On the other hand, the billing and moni-
toring system of the water division at its headquarters is in disarray,
because most of the equipment is outmoded and functioning badly. As a conse-
quence, consumer records are over a year in arrears and, therefore, cannot be
used by management for monitoring purposes. JS authorities appreciate the
urgent need for new billing equipment, and have decided to acquire the neces-
sary equipment as soon as possible with their own funds. An understanding to
this effect was obtained from JS during negotiations.
47.       WD's accounts would be audited by the Auditor Ceneral as required
under the 1980 Act. During negotiations, assurances %2re obtained from JS
that WD would submit unaudited and audited accounts, to the Bank no later than
July 31 and October 31 of the following year respectively.
Johor State Water Department Finances
48.       Because of the weaknesses in the accounting system and the fact that
financial statements had to be reconstructed from cash accounts (para. 45), an
assessment of the water division's financial performance can only be indica-
tive. During the period 1979-83, the performance varied; it was unsatisfac-
tory in 1982 because of billing delays and inadequate tariffs; but for the
period as a whole, it was marginally satisfactory. The division's revenues
covered operating expenses and debt service charges and also contributed
M$1.76 million (under 2%) of its investment needs.
49.       The tariff structure is divided mainly into residential and indus-
trial categories. The residential tariff structure is progressive, but had
until recently an unduly large, subsidized consumption i.e. social tranche of
the first 23 m3/month. Tariffs were increased substantially for industrial
and high-volume residential users in September 1983, and are expected to
result in adequate financial performance in 1985. Effective fSom January 1,
1986 Johor State reduced the size of the social tranche to 18m (an effective
increase in water revenues of around 6%). These measures, however, are not
adequate to provide the necessary level of revenues for WD to meet the large
increases in its debt service obligations in 1986 and thereafter, mainly
because of: (a) the current COM policy of granting five-year grace periods on
its sector loans to SGs with capitalization of interest during these periods;
and (b) the practice of financing investment almost entirely through borrow-
ings. Consequently, JS has confirmed to the Bank that it will increase
tariffs effective September 1, 1986. The resulting tariffs would still be
affordable to low income hou^eholds; water bills would be well within 3% of
their income. Projected tariffs are expected to approach marginal costs.
50.       The financial projections of VD for 1985-1992, based on the measures
proposed above to increase revenues and using credible assumptions, indicate
that the WD's net internal cash generation would vary from one year to another
(it will be marginally negative in 1986). For the period as a whole, however,
WD would make a net positive contribution averaging around 15% towards its
investment requirements which, in the formative years of WD, is considered



- 17 -
reasonable. This performance corresponds to a rate of return on unrevalued
assets increasing from about 1.3% in 1985 to about 82 in 1992, and about 1-5%
over the same period on assets if they were to be revalued. Assurances were
obtained from JS during negotiations that it would take necessary measures to
maintain tariffb to yield revenues covering cash operating expenses and debt
service charges, and providing a reasonable contribution to investment; the
finarcial targets would be reviewed and agreed with the Bank following WD's
submittal of five-year financial projections by September 30, 1987.
Benefits and Risks
51.       The proposed project would address the critical water needs of the
three districts of JS and would, thereby, contribute towards raising the
health and living standards of inhabitants in those areas. About 370,000
additional persons would, for the first time, have access to piped water
service as a result of the project. Furthermore, many rural areas presently
served on an intermittent basis would be able to rely on a continuous supply
of safe water. Not less than 20% of the project cost is estimated to benefit
people from the poverty group.
52.       More important, the project is intended as a means:  (a) to estab-
lish and develop a water utility which would be technically competent, organ-
izationally strong and financially viable; and (b) to enhance, in the longer
term, the promotion of sound institutional and financial policies and prac-
tices in the sector.
53.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project's consolidated
three water supply components is estimated to be 8.52 (for Joho- Bahru), 8.8%
(for Batu Pahat), and 5.0% (for Kluang) with a weighted average of 7.7%. The
ERR was derived by using, as a proxy for benefits, the revenues associated
with incremental water sales as a result of this project. The ERR understates
the full benefits of the project as it is believed that water tariffs do not
fully capture the full effect of health and productivity improvements
resulting from safe water. The ERRs of the components are more sensitive to
changes in water demand than to cost increases.
54.       The establishment of a new organization with the recruitment of a
large number of staff and the implementaticn of commercial accounting are both
major undertakings. The difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified and
experienced staff at all levels has caused problems in management and opera-
tions of water supply schemes in the past. This aspect represents a potential
risk to achieving the institutional developm-nt objectives. Recent measures
confirmed by JS, like the impetus for the recruitment drive and the agreed
tariff changes to set WD on a sound financial footing, are indications of JS
commitment to provide adequate support during the irnitial years of the new
department. Similarly, the active support of AGD in helping set up and
monitor progress on the commercial accounting system and the establishment of
an in-house training program for technical and accounting staff should reduce
the above risks to an acceptable level.



- 18 -
Environmental and Other Aspects
55.       As this project is mainly intended to provide domestic water supply,
a somewhat greater degree of pollution of surface water can be expected from
the sullage waters because of increased water usage, especially in high den-
sity areas without adequate sewage disposal. In less densely populated areas,
the impact of waste water from the water supplv schemes would not be signifi-
cant, because of the small population and the enforcement of building codes
which require houses with internal plumbing to have adequate disposal faciLi-
ties. The major disruption would be in the central areas of the main towns
which still use bucket latrines and the existing drainage system for sullage
water. The JB Municipal Council is conscious of the problem in its own juris-
diction and has made plans to proceed on its own with the implementation of a
phased reduction of unsanitary latrines and waste disposal sites over the next
years. Also, MHLC officials are currently reviewing measures to start low cost
sanitation investments for some of the project towns.
56.       The proposed estuary barrage to be constructed under the project is
located on a tributary of the Johor river, downstream of the current Singapore
water intake (para. 33). Future abstractions from the reservo.r would other-
wise flow int3 a Malaysian bay. JS authorities have assured the Bank that the
project is not inconsistent with any existing agreements signed between Johor
and Singapore.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 5, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page  I of  6
eXIAI.4IA              - 9CIAL IMIICATFOLS 04T6 SlItFT
4ALAY4?A                             8.FEREAZ RIJURUUPS (WEsIdGTED AVEkAt;/S)I-
MUST                      eiasr 4ELkqT ..sh.Aft) lb
HICEIT            uI HlLf         IsIDULE INClIME
sboblb     397Ib LSTiNtAT Ib        ASIM    PaIFCt         LAT. AEAICA 6 CAR
AMA (TWSD   o. m)
TUTAL                              129.8       329.8       329.8
AcRICULTURAL                        34.'        39u.        43.6
Qw      CAlTA ITA0                      .           ..       3860.0  1/   1u13.1                         1.15.9
ZuiR    emWarnm  u"  cA.:A
(EILOGRAIS or UIL EQUIVALENT)      *I6.0       055.0       689.0              1.6.5                    993.e
uouaTa AM  nAL mrnsTIri
POPULATIN.HIIO-TEAR (THNo5AOss)   8205.0    10063.U    14863.0
URun POPULAtION (I OF TOTAL)        25.2        27.0        30.7               35.9                     67.7
POPULATION PROCTEoINS
POPULATIoN Vt WAR 2000 (KILL)                             20.5
STATIONARY POPULATtON (MILL)                              33.0
POPULATION 4DIENTWH                                        1 ..
POPULATIOW DENSITY
PER So. DI.                       24.9        32.9        45.1             Jie.9                      48.0
PER SO. KM. OCRt. LAND           235.5       273.2       333.2            3191.2                      91.3
POULATILON ACC STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 IRS                         45.1        45.4        37.7               38.2                     3b.5
15-64 YRS                         53.2        51.4       56.4               57.7                      57.1
65 AND ABOVE                       3.6         3.u         3.7                3.5                      '.2
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                              2.7         2.6        2.3                 2.3                      2.4
URI"                               *.9         3.5         3.4                4.1                      3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATC (PER THNUS)        40.3        35.7        29.1               30.1 Ju.V
CRUDE DRATH RAIT (PR TIIUUS)       13.9          9.2         6.6                9.4                      8.0
COSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4         2.0         1.8                1.9                     Z2.
FAMILY PLANNIIC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          .,         56.0        81.1 Ic
USERS (t oF ARRIE WOMEN)           ..         33.0 /d    42.0                56.5                     45.3
INDEX OP FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       83.0        9.0        133.0              124.4                    109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES Ct OF CEQUIRErlNTS)     102.0       309.0       122.0              115.7                    3L3.2
PROTEINS (CPASS PER DAY)          46.0        50.0        66.0               60.3                     69.4
OF SlICE AN:HAL AND PULSE        17.0        18.0        23.0 I.            16.1                     34.2
C.ILD (ACES 1-') DEATH RATE          7.5         3.4         1.6                7.2                      4.6
WALTS
LIFE EXECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        53.9        61.2       66.9               bO.6                      84.8
INFArT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       72.0        45.5       n9.0               64.9                      59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WAT0 (%PoP)
TOTAL                              ..         29.0        66.0 Ic            46.0                    6b.3
URBAN                              ..                     90.0 77            57.6                     76.5
RURAL                              ..          1.0        49.0 7            37.1                      46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         39.0        70.0 Ic            50.1                     Sb.3
URBAN                              --        100.0      1O0.O Ic             52.9                     73.6
RURAL                              .          43.0        53.0 7c           04.7                      ds.5
POPULATION PER PH-SICIAN          7060.0      4310.0      7930.0 la          7751.7                   1909.7
POP. PER HSRSING PERSOP           1600.0      3120.0       940.077          2464.6                     608.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            270.0       290.0         ..              1112.1                    36 .0
RAM                               10.0       140.0         ..               651.4                    422.0
RURAL                           3710.0      3760.0         *-             2594.9                    2716.7
ADKISSIONS PeR HOSPITAL BEO          ..         18.4        ..                41.1                      27.5
AVERACE SI2Z. ef HOUhEHOLD
TOTAL                              .           5.6 /f
URBA                                           5.9 7ir
RURAL                                          5.s /5 .I
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOWS/ROON
TOTAL                              -           2.6 /f
URBAN                              ..          2.3 7r      .
RURAL                              ..          2.8 /f
PERCENTACE or DWELLINCS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                              ..         43.4 If
URBAN                              ..         64.7 7        ..
RURAL                              ..         30.1 /t
1/ US$1,990 in 1984.



ANNEX [
Page  2  of 6
- 20 -
MALAYSIA               - NOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                             REIIIENCE GROUPS (WEIGMCTED AVERAGES) In
M05T                     (MOST RECENT ESTTIATE) /b
RECENT           MIDDLZ INCOME           MIDOLE INCOME
196bIb     1970/1b  ESTIMATF.b      ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA 4 CAR
TIOIATIOR
ADJUSTCD ENIOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYi  TOTAL                   96.0        87.0                         100.7                     106.7
HALE                  108.0        91.0        97.Ct            104.4                     106.5
FEMALE                 83.0        84.0        O n               97.2                     104.6
SECONDARYs TtOTAL                 19.0        34.0        72.n              47.8                      44.2
MALE                   25.0        40.0        !2..i             50.6                      42.7
FEMALE                 13.0        28.0       72.n               44.8                      44.9
VOCATIONAL (I OP SECONDARY)          4.6         2.9        I.h               13.                       13.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           28.0        31.0       25.0               30.4                      29.9
SECONDARY                         25.0        26.0       22.n               22.2                      16.7
PASSENGER CARSITIOUSAND POP         11.8        21.9       42.6  t            10.1                      46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/TROUSAND POP        36.9        39.6       415.4 7E          172.9                     326.3
TV RECEIVERS,TNOUSAID POP            3.2 /b     12.0        89.9              58.5                     112.4
NZWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            60.0        72.1       182.2              65.3                      81.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTEIIDANCE/CAPITA    18.0         9.4         2.6 /i            3.4                       2.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         2800.0      3668.0      5431.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  27.2        31.4        31.8              33.6                      23.6
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             63.0        56.0        50.0 Ic           52.2                      31.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.0        14.0        16.0 7&           17.9                      24.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             34.1        33.8        36.5              38.9                      33.5
MALE                              48.8        45.7        49.3              50.8                      51.3
FEMALE                            18.9        21.5        23.2              26.6                      15.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCCY RATIO           1.4         1.4         1.2               1.1                       1.3
ICM  DISYRZSTOU
PERCENT GF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BT
HIGHEST 51 OF HOUSEIOLDS          34.0        27.0
HIGIEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS         61.2        56.6         *-               46.0
LOWESr 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS           3.2         3.3        ..                 6.4
LOWESr 40X OF HOUSEIIOLDS          9.6        10.6        ..                15.5
POWs=TAET    -S
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                        123.6       314.4 /c             .                      288.3
RURAL                              ..        111.6       289.2 7_          151.9                     185.3
ESTILMTED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UkAN                               ..          ..          ..              177.9                     519.8
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..               164.7                     359.7
ESTIMTED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (C)
URBAN                              ..         21.3       12.6 Ic            23.5
RURAL                              *-         58.7        37.7 77           37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator arc population-wLghted arithmtic usana. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on savilability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unleas otherwise noted, "Dte for 1960" refer to any year betmien 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Host Recent Estieate' between 1981 ad 1963.
/c  1980; Id 1974; 1- i977; /f Peuinaular Malaysia;  /g 1978; th 1964.
JUNE 1985



ANNEX  I
-  21  -                                                                 f  6
EFIFlNlTlI)NS OF SO  lIAI 11DKI) IOES
Noie7 Although the JtAi ire drautn Ir.am wune genCtdlis Iudged the mt 7ut uhiarittie .ind rebithilr , 'ha-utal i.....    I'n. .ri a liii tha rhU.. a,. .. *,trt rt iaa.iIi
compauable beLAILse *- the igAk a. irulndardi,ed Jeihnilitns and a-nceplt umed li ditterctrintrte-a a11lletting -  it .IJI ne -jir ,t  tr.i iilaIrt l wiul a lT  t.
jtiesanhe a1derr-ta mAgnitude, indwcate trends. an charACtrim  cerlain miltor JilVerenLet hieten t,auflh1Ite
The reference groups are (Ii the same countrs group ol the tuhbecl counlry nd 2 i a tounirs gratap s.il o.mcasit higher tef are .in-tt1C ili.tta the -uni,
groupofthcsubpctcouniryteaepi (for HighIancomeOil Eiporiersg rtupwwhere Middletlnime N.arth AIrtIAand MidldeI tA%t  harset1iar tnHwc . ' ownger
svueo-culturat aflnttmtl In the reference group data the asveragem are population weighted arithmeane  mreant liar each indicator and h'isn u-nl  bhen matrirrs I
lthecounrtnm ma group hadat for tha indicator Since tbe coverage orcouninet among the indicator depends in the a-.aihilit ttfdata and a'.nol unifarm.
caution muse be esereised in relting avermagnorone indicator to another Thee averageare *anh utlul in camparing the salue ot .lne tndiLl-r al a lIme .m.tng   -
the country and refertnc groups
AREA (thousand sq kmi)                                                Crde Birth Rate (per thkosand)  Number of live hirths in the sear
Total-- Total surface area compnstng land area and inland waters;     per thousand of mid-year population. 19641. 1970. and 19H1 dala
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                             Crude Drath Rate (per thousand)  Number of deaths in the year
Ajrkukrw-- Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily vr          per thousand of mid-year population. 1060. 1970, and 19141 data
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens o r to    Gross Reprodectron Rate  Average number tfdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data                                  will bear in her normal reproductive penritd if che experiences
present age-specific fertility rates, usually live-vear averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)- GNP per capita estimates at current             in 1960. 1970. and 1981
market prices. cakulated by same converston method as *brld           Fkn Pl
llan .4r/as 11981-83 basis); 1981 data                                   yb Pkanif4ecrepotrs .4owa (trJswdir)  Annual num-
baerf acceptors of birth-contr)l deviccs under auspices of national
familsr plantiong proigram.
ENERGY  CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA   Annual apparent
consumption of commercial primary energy tcoal and lignite.           FamilyPluaning-lers(perentof marredwoment  Thepercen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-       tage of married women of child-beanng age who are practicing or
ncity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita. 1960. 1970, and     whose husbands are practicng any form of contraception Women
1982 data.                                                            of chl]d-beanng age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some counines contraceptive usage is measured for tither age
POPULATION AND VIfAL STATISTICS                                       groups.
Total Popolsio. Mid-Yae  (thousands) - As of July 1. 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Iundexof FoodProduction PerrCipia(1969-7100lfNfl  Indet ofper
U'ran Population (percent of total)  Ratio of urban ito total         capita annual production or all food commodities  Producieon
population. different definitions of urban areas n.ay affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture Food commoditics
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dala.           include primary commodities tc g cugarcane instead of sugar)
POPation Projectins                                                   which are edible and contain nutnents (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in wear 200- The projectlion of pxopulation for 2000.      excludedl. thes comprise cereals. root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately Starting with information on         vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fenility rates, mortaltv rates. and  livestock products Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters       on national average produccr pnce weights; 19II-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized     1982 data
assumptions until the population became stationary                    PA Capita Supply f Cal-oies (percent ofrequirmenrtsj  Comput-
Stationarl population- - Is one in which agc- and sex-specific mor-   cd from calone equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taluty rates have not changed ovcr a long penod. while agc-specific   per capita per dav Available supplies comprise domesic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level     lion, imports less exports, and changes in stock  Net supplies
(net reproduction ratc = II In such a population. the birth rate is   excludc animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
coinstant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also      food processtng. and losses in distribution  Requiremcnts were
constant, and the growth rate is zero The stationary population       estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
siz was estimated on the basis of the projected charactenstics of     and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of declinc of fenility  age and sex distnbution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level                                             waste at household level. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum  -is the tendency for population growth to        Per Capita Supply of Prorein (grams per day) - Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been    per capita net supply tf food per day Nei supply of food is dehned
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached   as abose Requirements for all countines established by USDA
unity The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as       provide for minimum allowances ot hQ grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in    day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which It) grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-   should be animal protci These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data                              75 grams of total protemn and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popuation Density                                                     average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World I-ood
Per sq.km.- Mid-year population per square kilometer 1100 hec-        Supply; 19h1. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                      Per Capita Protein Supply From Animal and Pulse- -Protein supply
Per sq.km. agrictdiural land--Computed as above for agncultural       of food denved from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                                 1970 and 1977 data.
Populaton Age Structure (perceutI-Children (0- 14 years). work-       Child (ages 1-4; Death Rate (per thousand)    umber of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                    group in a given year For most dceloping countnes data derived
Population Growth Rate (percru0)-toral--Annual growth rates of        from life tables, 1960. 19?0 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83           HEALTH
Popltio  Growth Rate (pereensl_-aran--Annual growth rates             Life Expetancy at Birth (yers) -Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.          infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortaity for all pecple



ANNEX I
-22-                                                      Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life:  Puptl-teacher Ratio - prnmar. and e nmndar-r Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levIls dimidcd I) numbers of
Infean wouliry Rate (per thouand) -Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Access to Safe Water (percent of population)-tooa4 uba. aid    Pawsser Cns (per thousnd pepuioa)-Passenger cars com-
rura-Number of people (total. urban, and ruml) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons. excludes ambul-
access to safe watcr supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Rado Recie  (per thusand populatiou)-All types of rceiers
borehoks. springs and sanitary wells) as percentag  of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters rcom a house may be considered  egistmtio cof rd       was inegrect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural arms  not be comparabi since most countrics abolista d lircnsing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate parn of the day  TV Receivers (per thousand pepultiox)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the fanily's water needs.                          to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
inefw re Eidm  D~osl {Prtc ef lwtJ~eti. xrO                     receivers in countries and in years when registration or TV sets was
Access to Excreta Disposal (percent of populaton j-totda4rban,  in effect.
and rural-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  AfrwipDper Csrcutaon (per rhousand popuaer.S.-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general intercst newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a wcek.
Plopiuaton per Physieian-Population divided by number of prac-  Cieanw Annal Attendance per Cpoe per Yes-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university kvel.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popuaton per Nursin Person-Population divided by number of     drive-in cmnemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Popuflae per Hospetal ed-,eal, _rban, ad rurad-Popubation       Total Labor Force (thousautfl-Economically active persons. in-
Itotal. urban. and rural) divided by their respectve number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
sbeds availablein public and private, general and specialized  students. etc., covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals am establishments  various countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femal (percentJ-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  force
howevcr, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agrihire (percenrl-Labor forte in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical faclities.                                           lIdustry (percearl-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admisios per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentagc of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; !960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Participation Rate (percent-eal. man, andfaner--Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
Avrae Sze of House old (persons per housel'dii-roral. urban,   as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
andraura-A household consists ofa group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Neiber of Persons per Room-toata  urban, and rura-r   Economic Dependency Raio--Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population Ithose aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectivelv. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Diwellins wth Electriciy-toral, urban, and rura-    Prcwage of Total Disposabl Inconw (both ie cash and kid)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quartem as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rL al dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjsted Enrololent Ratios                                      The follow-ng estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prniarr school - total. male and female-Gross total. male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femnale enroUment of al ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated Absolte Poverty Income Levl (US$ per capitn)-'urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rural-Absolute poverty iLncome level is that income leve
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pracices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Eistited Reltie Poverty income Level (uSs per capitt-rban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad rua--Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. male aid femal-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pr-  Estimed Popuaton Bebw Absoblue Pbvery Income Leve (per-
mnary instruction: provides generaL vocational. or teacher training  centi-urban ad rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
once courses are generaly excluded.
Vocational EnmrolImnt (real of secondary)-Vocational institu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial. or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



ANNEX I
P age 5 of 6
- 23 -
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984:                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH:
2 in constant prices Ind MS
US$ Mln     S          1961-70   1971-77   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
CNP at Nerket Prices               30,621   100.0          6.4        7.8       5.9    9.0    8.6    7.2    4.8    4.4    6.1
Gross Domestic Inveatnent          10,183    33.3          6.7       11.4       8.1   13.5    8.0   22.1   14.6    6.8    3.2
Gross National Saving               7,959    26.0           *          *         *      *      *       *      *       *      *
Exports of Goods 6 NFS             18,399    60.1          6.0        7.5       7.6   17.5    2.7    0.5    8.7   11.0   14.7
Imports of Goods 6 NFS             18,473    60.3          2.9        8.5     12.9   28.5   11.1    7.2   11.2    7.8    9.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983 Is
Output                         E ployment                    Output per worker
US$ mln              S              MlLn             2               US$               %
Agrtculture                            3,054             21.3            2.0             37.0            1,558             58.7
Industry                               4,491             31.3            1.3             24.1            3,545            133 6
Services                               6.803             47.4            2.1             38.9            3,122            117.6
Total/Average                    14,148            100.0            5.4            100.0           2654             100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Genersl Government
M  Mlin                                    X of GDP
1984        1971-75        1976-80        1981        1982        1983       1984
Current Receipts                            20,820         20.6           24.4          28.2        27.3       27.2        29.0
Current Expenditures                         19.141        24.9           30.5          24.4        26.0       23.6        26.7
Carrent Surplus                               1,679         0.6            1.2           3.8         1.3         3.6        2.3
Direct Development Expenditures               5,304         5.1            7.3          15.8        11.6         7.7        7.4
Net Lending                                   3,592         3.0            3.4           4.1         6.7         5.5        5.0
Foreign Borrowing (net)                      4,226          2.1            1.3           5.2         7.8         6.4        5.9
WNDEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    198n    1981    1982    1983    1984
(Million MS outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                8,714  10.001  12,771  16,861  17,467  21,616  27,652  32,371  37,648  41,193  45,876
Bank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                         959   1,313      822   1,213   1,017    -742       549   2,292   3,982   3,431   4,146
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                             5,275   6,077   7,471   8,971  11,844  14,982  20,936  25,718  29,916  36,417  42,974
(Percentages or Ineex Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Morey
as 2 of GDP                         38.1    44.8    45.5    46.0    46.1    47.9    53.3    57.7    61.5    60.6    59.8
Consumer Price Index
(1980 - 100)                        69.8    82.0    85.7    87.9    92.0    96.5   100.0   109.7   116.1   120.L   125.1
Annual Percentage
Changes in Consumer
Price Index                         17.4     4.5      2.6     4.7      4.9     3.6      6.7     9.7      5.8      3.7     3.9
Bank Credit to Public
Sector (net)                        69.4    36.9   -37.4    67.8   -16.2         *        *   317.5    73.7   -13.8    20.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector         15.1    15.1    22.9    20.1    32.0    26.5    39.7    22.8    16.3    21.7    18.0
*   Not applicable.
/a In 1970 prices.
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at che average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
September 1985



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
- 24 -
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS              1982       1983       1984                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1984)
-----(US$ million)--                                          US$ million        X
Exports f.o.b.                  11,952    13,863    16,250           Rubber                         1.565         9.6
Imports f.o.b.                  12,464    13,160    14,233           Timber                         1,539         9.5
Nonfactor Services (net)        -1,616    -3,027    -2,177           Petroleum                      3,729        23.0
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    -2,218    -1,324          -160         Ttn                              479         J.0
Factor Services (net)             -958    -1,548    -2,042           Palm Oil                       2,268        14.0
Net Transfers                      -33        -22        -22         All Other Goods                6,670        40.9
Balance on Current Account
(deficit - -)                 -3,119    -2,894    -2,224                 Total                   16,250       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        1,256      1,206        898
Net MLT Borrowing /a             2,597      2,133      2,063         EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1984
Disbursements                    2,838      2,391      2,617
Amortizatton                       241        258        554                                                  USS Mln
Subtotal                      3,853      3,339      2,961         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed             11,872
Nonguaranteed Privrte Debt                 3,933
Other Items n.e.i.                -931       -396       -657         Total Outstanding & Disbursed             15,805
Increase in Reserves (-)           197        -49        -S0
International Reserves
(end year)                   4,021      4,102     4,109         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 /b                 X
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Public Debt, tncl. Guaranteed                7.9
Imports                              *          *          *         Nonguaranteed Ptivace Debt                   4.0
Exports                              *          *          *         Total Outstanding & Disb,rsed               11.9
Of which:  Crude Petroleum   1,288        3,393      3,729
IBRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEMBER 30, 1985)
(USS million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                 IBRD
Average rate durtng period:                                          Outstanding & Disbursed                   807.i.
Undisbursed                               482.46
Outstanding mncl. Und5sbursed           1,289.50
M$ per USS             USS per MS
1974                     2.41                   n.41
1975                     2.40                   r,.42
1976                     2.54                   0.39
1977                     2.46                   0.41
1978                     2.32                   0.43
1979                     2.19                   0.46
1980                     2.18                   0.46
1981                     2.30                   0.43
1982                     2.34                   0.43
1983                     2.32                   0.43
1984                     2.34                   0.43
* not available.
/a Public/publicly guaranteed debt only.
/b Interest and amortization payments as a proportion of total earnings from exports of goods and services.
September 1985



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
- 25 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS /a
As of September 30, 1985
Amount Ln USS milLion
Loan                                                                      (less cancellations)
no.    Year        Borrower                   Purpose                     Bank      Undisbursed
Forty-three loans fulLy disbursed                                           867.66
1376    1977   Malaysia                Highway (III)                         35.00        4.79
1444    1977   Malaysia                Nat'l Small-Scale Irrigation          39.00         1.84
1493    1978   Malaysia                National Extension                    19.00         1.89
1590    1978   Malaysia                FELDA VI Land Settlement              28.00        3.67
1632    1978   Malaysia                Krian-Sungei Manik Agri. Dev.         26.50        0.27
1717    1979   Malaysia                Muda II Irrigation                    31.00       10.83
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (IX)                               50.00        4.41
1899    1980   MaLaysia                Kelantan Land Scheme Rehab.           25.00       21.03
1957    1981   Malaysia                Rompin-Endau Area Dev.                40.00       24.74
1960    1981   Malaysia                Trans-Perak Area Dev.                 50.00       39.58
2013    1981   Malaysia                FELCRA I                              37.00       24.60
2145    1982   Malavsia                Industrial Training (Educ VI)         40.60       34.45
2146    1982   Nat'i Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (Power X)    86.30             39.85
2147    1982   Malaysia                Malacca Agri. DeveLopment             25.40       19.05
2220    1983   Malaysia                Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    56.90          47.57
2291    1983   Malaysia                Sabah-Sarawak Road                    86.22       86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (XI)                               70.00       69.78
2471    1985   Malaysia                Small-Scale Enterprises               52.10       48.11
Total Loans (less cancellation) /b                               1,665.68
of which has been repaid                                         332.29
Total now outstanding                                            1,333.39
Amount sold                       43.89
ot which has been repaid                                          43.89
Total loans now held by Bank /b                                  1,289.50
Total undisbursed                                                              482.46
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Excludes Loan 2530-MA, FELDA Palm Oil Mills Project, US$31.2 million approved on
May 7, 1985; Loan 2550-MA, Sabah Forestry Technical Assistance Project, US$6.5 million
approved on May 21, 1985; and Loan 2601-MA, Second Industrial Training Project,
US$73.3 miLlion approved on July 2, 1985. None of these loans were effective as of
September 30, 1985. Subsequently, Loan 2530-MA became effective on October 28, 1985
and Loan 2601-MA on November 1, 1985.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
- 26 -
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of September 30, 1985
Amount in
Type of             US$ million
Year              Obligor                    business       Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Malysian Industrial Devel-         Financing          -    1.94    1.94
opment Finance Ltd. (MIDF)
1985      SEAVI-MA                           Money and          -    1.00    1.00
Capital Mkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                  Cement          1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.              Steel           2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.   Textiles           1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hardwoods                  Pulp and        9.97    1.53   11.50
Paper Prod.
Total Cross Commitment                           14.95    6.24   21.19
Less:  repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off                4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                 9.97    2.53   12.50
Total Undisbursed                                 4.97    0.41    5.38



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
- 27 -
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                     2 years
(b)  Project preparation agency:                        Johor State JKR
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank, and
Bank consideration thereof:                      January 1984
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission             November 20, 1984
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                November 8, 1985
(f)  Planned Date of effectiveness:                     May 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Federal Government would give assurances on:
(i) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between COM and JS, as a
condition of effectiveness (para. 39); and
(ii) a schedule for the approval of positions and the staffing of
water supply training personnel (para. 44).
(b) The Johor State Government would give assurances on:
(i) the staffing and a schedule for recruitment of PIU personnel
(para. 37);
(ii) a schedule for recruitment of the additional staff for the WD
(para. 43); and on the recruitment of water supply training
experts (para. 44);
(iii) gazetting of the Water Department and the operation of the
commercial accounting system by January 1 , 1987 (para. 45);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
- 28 -
(iv)  the Water Department would maintain tariffs to yield revenues
covering cash operating expenses and debt service charges, and
to provide a reasonable contribution to investment. The latter
wouLd be reviewed and agreed with the Bank by September 30,
1987, following WD's reconstruction of accounts and submission
of five-year financial projections (para. 50).



103040                                                          oa'rso-               to Mersing  otSediu                       104''00'
M  A L A Y S I A                                                       Kota Tinggi                 ,,,          e
biwVcwwmw~f m
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                            AlJGAI -m g   a
Johor Bahru Water Supply Scheme: Phase IB                                    /    JfOHOR                                 __,,,_
UNDER                                                                                                          e X  -u Sw* .4W. ,.
EXSING CoNSTRUCTION PROJCT                                                                                                       
- -   -            - Water supply mains
1°40 '                                                 Pumping stations                            /                                                             -
to Kluanch                                                                                                                                                      140
U       U *   *        Water treatment plants
) |          dj    Dams and reservoirs
Kulai                                0              Service reservoirs
\.    Distribution systems to be improved /
Roads                                      /
-4-4- |  Railways                                 /
International boundaries
} t                                   Y   )                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHfABANG T7RAMu
Senai                       2     4       aI0pnpvsao
KILOUEtERS
LOWER?
LA YAN
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                  A       %AN LDAYANG
Pu a i%'00e0                                                                                                                                  (0  &
>\   /   ~~~~~ NK~empas                                                                                           0 .   0iu^-
/ * / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(t80MLI0)
Sekudai    * SEKUDAI
1030'       Lma Kedai                                                                                                                                           13
elang Patah
1$ 0300     /00                                                                                                                10SINGAPORE\
103040/                                                        103°0        t1                                                 104-00'  _J



ro10300    oChaah                                     Pah--
\.-I THAILAND        0  Preetlocatiaoans
- -. - Strlu boundridM s
'.'   >          - ---International boundaries
v. /       .                -1"          
MA&AYSIA   '               -'
-.p.    _,) 
aKula Lumpur
,~~~-                                         8 KOK~~~DAS
BA .   'JP,A   t 0UTURE)
~wTUPMAn T0o 00H)BANHRU                                            \ar
INDONESIA                .     POREKr. Baharu
Sumatera
L
YONG PENG
(51LiDexsa.)    Y ong Peng
(25 ML ID under gmstJ
-2'00
Faloh                   ~       ~
/\Sulong,"I-_J 
</                      /                             ~~~~~~~~~~~SEUBERONG   -m
SEMSEI -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fOA --\/   
\ Kg Lb(                                      enGaig (HlUI.RTongkang Pechana
\   \    \       /                             \              Itrt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,ake ae 
tS   \   \   I              I                                s          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~purilpfig stai7ton 
/   AosKS.Lubo\k  \                                                                    -       
_  ^,      /             os                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~PARIT RAJA    f  
BUKTSOGAP URAJA (4.5ML ID)
tX        ~~~~~(2, 1 tM[ AW J   °n  
Kg. Minyak Beku
-t°45'                                                                        _
rand4m AV ise er o u, nay                                                                                 \
1)1. msp e n pt ir  \ s 
SW U. F3ISE  lU
mbwe .d ig .uU.4 U.
0         5               10            15           20 KILOMETERS
an this_______________do______                                                                    Renggi
1- of T?w 8s& a* SW NW|     r                     -                      s' UILESJ
6 U. NW,eCopos              0       2        4       6        8        1
atow h toy or & IV
10300



IBRD 18E
N 0.1 a,                                                               Kt. Kah  g ^w
GROUNDWATER WET LLS
[:]SG KAHANG  A 
-:~~~~~~taca Bah,u8 
}               BtuPaht nd   ela- Water s upply mainse
ExisnNG ~    ~       KAAN DAMSE
*        *      Watertreatment plants
O         *     Service reservoirs                            1"45:
iitam           Pumping stations
|L-ll-:]  Distribution system to be improved
--        Service zone (Batu Pahat and Keluang Schemne)
-ARoads
----i-Railways
J. Damns and reservoirs
_ Rivers
BentBut
103°t5'                                                              103'30' 
MAY '-






