Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15778
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2654-MA)
JUNE 24, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malaysian Ringgit (M$)
1984    US$1.00 = M$ 2.34
1996    US$1.00 = M$ 2.50
&,NITS OF MEASUREMENTS
Metric System
lcd             liters per capita per day
Ml              Megaliter (1000 m3)
Mid              Megaliters per day
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
F-JKR        -      Federal Department of Public Works
GOM          -      Federal Government of Malaysia
JBA          -      Johor Water Department
JS-JKR       -      Johor State Department of Public Works
M&E          -      mechanical and electrical
PUB          -      Public Utilities Board of Singapore
SAJ          -      Syarikat Air Johor Sdn. Bhd. (Johor Water Company, Inc.)
WD           -      Water Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2654-MA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ..............................................................i
Evaluation Summary ..............................................................                                ii
Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .1
B. Achievement of Objectives .1
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                         .8
D. Project Sustainability                                            .9
E. Bank Performance                                                 .9
F. Borrower Performance .10
G. Assessment of Overall Outcome .10
H. Future Operations .10
I. Key Lessons Learned  .11
Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ..........................................................              12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ..........................................................                 13
Table 3:  Project Timetable ..................                 ........................................ 13
Table 4:  Cumulative Disbursements: Planned v. Actual .................................... 14
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .....................                .................... 15
Table 6:  Studies Included in the Project .......................................................... 16
Table 7:  Project Costs and Financing .........................................................           17
Table 8:  Economic Costs and Benefits ............................... .......................... 18
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................            19
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................................  20
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................................            21
Appendixes:
A.  Mission's Aide Memoire ..............................................................               22
B. Maps (IBRD 18823 and 18824)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
off icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2654-MA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Johor Water Supply
Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 2654-MA in the amount of US$ 62.0 million
equivalent was approved on February 25, 1986 and made effective on August 7, 1986.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1995, compared with the original closing date
of March 31, 1992. US$ 15.0 million was canceled on April 23, 1990. The final
transaction took place on August 2, 1995, at which time the balance of US$ 2.75 million
equivalent was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Kevin Page, Operations Analyst, Infrastructure
Operations Division, Country Department I of the East Asia and Pacific Region and was
reviewed by Mr. J. Shivakumar, Chief, EAIIN; Mr. Mohammad Farhandi, Portfolio
Manager, EAIIN, and Mr. Walter Schwermer, Projects Advisor, EA1DR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission. It
is based on material in the project file and the information provided by the implementing
agency, Syarikat Air Johor Sdn. Bhd., during the ICR mission which took place between
March 11 - 16, 1996. A final draft of the ICR was provided to the Borrower for comment,
and no comments were received.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2654-MA)
Evaluation Summary
Background
i.     The State of Johor is situated at the southern tip of the Malay Peninsula and, with a land area of
18,985 sq. km, ranks fjfth in size among the 13 states of Malaysia. It is divided into eight administrative
districts, namely: Batu Pahat; Johor Bahru; Kluang; Kota Tinggi; Mersing; Muar; Pontian; and Segmat.
These range in size from 3,483 sq. km (Kota Tinggi) to 919 sq. km (Pontian). The Johor Water Supply
Project (Ln. 3654-MA) covered three of these administrative areas, Johor Bahru, Batu Pahat, and
Kluang. The population of Johor State at appraisal was 1.7 million compared to a population of 2.3
million in 1994. The population in the project area increased from 937,000 at appraisal to 1.3 million in
1994.
ii.    Water supply in Malaysia is a state-level responsibility, historically under State Public Works
Departments called Jabatan Kerja Raya (JKR), with federal government providing budgetary
allocations, policy and strategic guidance and technical assistance when required. During the
implementation of the Johor Water Supply Project, water supply institutions in Johor State evolved. The
water supply function moved from a division of the Johor State JKR to an independent Johor State
Water Department (JBA). Toward the end of project implementation, JBA was corporatized, becoming
a fully-state-owned company called Syarikat Air Johor Sdn. Bhd. (SAJ).
Project Objectives
iii.    The project objectives were to: (a) improve piped water supply service to existing consumers
and extend service to new customers in the Johor Bahru metropolitan area and in the urban and rural
areas of the Batu Pahat and Kluang districts; (b) reduce the dependence of Johor State on Singapore's
water abstractions; (c) strengthen water supply activities in the State through the creation of a separate
Water Department and the development of adequate institutional measures (manpower, training, a
commercial accounting system and improved financial management); and (d) ensure the financial
viability of the Water Department. Specifically, as regards the physical improvements, the objective
was to raise the percentage of population served between 1983 and 1995 from 75% to 92% in Johor
Bahru, 52% to 85% in Batu Pahat, and 68% to 86% in Kluang, respectively.
iv.    The physical objectives were timely and consistent with the development needs of the rapidly
growing Johor State. The institutional objective of creating a separate water departmnent was a necessary
condition for the creation of an accountable, efficient water supply institution. The institutional
measures required to build a strong and viable institution were also clearly defined in the project
objectives, although the timeframe for their implementation may have been too optirmistic.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.     The physical and institutional objectives were achieved, and in some respects surpassed. The
physical works were completed to a satisfactory level of quality, under the original cost estimates, albeit
with some delays. The recalculated internal rate of return was 9.3 percent compared to the appraisal
estimate of 7.7 percent. The percentage of population served in 1995 increased to 96 percent, also
exceeding the project's objectives. While SAJ continues to purchase water from Singapore's Public



iii
Utilities Board (PUB), the development of wvater treatment capacity under the project has reduced Johor
State's reliance on PUB water in keeping with the project development objectives.
vi.    The institutional objectives were to (i) create an independent, viable water department and (ii)
strengthen aspects of its operation, such as accounting, training and manpower. The former objective
was met late, but ultimately surpassed, while in the latter areas, results were delayed and only
marginally satisfactory. The responsibility for water supply was removed from the Johor State Public
Works Department (JS-JKR) and established under a new Water Department (JBA). This did not
occur, however, without problems and delays. The loan agreement called for the separation to take place
by January 1, 1987, but the legal separation did not actually take place until January 1, 1989 -
retroactive to the covenanted date. Even then, the legal separation did not have the intended institutional
effect of establishing JBA as a separate accounting unit, water revenues, then Johor State's largest
source of income, continued to be collected by the State Treasury. Actualizing the separation of the
accounting required significant Bank involvement, including a threatened suspension of the loan in
August, 1991. In order to avoid suspension, the Bank required the Borrower to develop an action plan
outlining the steps to achieve compliance with the loan covenants. Shortly thereafter, a plan was
generated and JBA was granted the powers provided under the enabling legislation, meeting the loan
covenant and project objective.
vii.    The structural institutional objectives of the project were later surpassed when Johor State
initiated the next step of corporatizing JBA. As of February 1, 1994, Syarikat Air Johor Sdn. Bhd.
(SAJ) was gazetted as a corporation under Malaysian law. The new water corporation is fully owsned by
the State of Johor, and has been accorded an even greater degree of management autonomy and
responsibility. According to the Borrower and SAM officials, the Bank played a significant role in
supporting this evolution.
viii.   Beyond the structure of the water supply entity, the project objectives called for development in
areas such as manpower, training, developing a commercial accounting system, and improving financial
management. In these areas, the project partially met the objectives. Changes and improvements did
occur, but over a longer timeframe than envisaged at appraisal. For example, through much of the
project period, personnel were rotated frequently, often into and out of posts completely unrelated to
water. Since corporatization, however, staff turnover has been reduced significantly, raising the utility
of training and improving staff accountability. Second, a hands-on training center was established later
than planned under the project but on-the-job training is now taking place routinely. In the matter of
financial accounts, at the beginning of the project in 1986, only cash accounts of water activities were
maintained, making it difficult to rationally set taritTs or monitor the efficiency of water service
delivery. By 1992, later than planned, a manual commercial accounting system was in place and
financials were being prepared in a commercial format. Finally, maintenance operations were improved
markedly during the project period, with overall NRW levels in Johor Bahru reduced to about 26
percent from an estimated high of over 45 percent in 1988. The evolution toward corporatization,
assisted by the Bank's involvement, created the incentive for increased operational accountability and
improved the situation in these institutional areas, although somewhat less than was hoped at appraisal.
Perhaps more importantly, SAJ's relatively new motivation to maximize profits improves the prospects
for continued institutional development in the future.
ix.    Other Results. During project implementation, the private sector became heavily involved in
water treatment and supply. A total of 14 water treatment facilities owned by SAJ are now being
managed by a Malaysian firm under a concession agreement. Additionally, phased extensions to
existing supply works along the Layang River are being developed under a build-operate-transfer
agreement. Finally, SAJ has been able to attract substantial private financing from a Malaysian
provident fund.



iv
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
x.     Findings. The project successfully achieved its implementation phase development objectives.
The recalculated internal rate of return for the project was 9.3 percent compared to 7.7 percent
estimated at appraisal. The institutional move of the water supply function from a division of the State
Public Works Department to a separate Water Department and, finally, to a full corporation has
exceeded expectations. The greater autonomy allowed by these institutional changes has allowed for
greater private sector participation in water supply, both in terms of its financing and operations.
xi.    Future Operations. SAJ is financially viable as currently structured. Unaudited accounts
available for SAJ's first year of incorporation reflect a before-tax profit of M$ 18.3 million, but with a
reduction in working capital of M$16.7 million out of reserves totaling M$371.0 million. Due to a low
collection efficiency, SAJ is currently financing short-term liabilities with long-term debt, a situation
which should be alleviated with the introduction of the improved billing and collection system currently
being deployed. However, while the current modernization of SAJ's financial management system
should enhance SAJ's cash flow, profits are too low to finance needed investments in future water
supply.
xii.    SAJ estimates that investments needed to keep up with anticipated water demand amount to
about M$1 billion over the next 5 years. SAJ has developed access to a fairly large source of local
credit on favorable terms. Continued access to credit, however, will depend largely upon SAJ's ability
to raise sufficient revenues to service its large debts. The State of Johor maintains control over water
tariffs, which were last raised in 1991. With the consumer price index in Malaysia rising by an average
of about 4 percent per year since then, water tariff revenues have declined in real terms by about 20
percent. A tariff increase is therefore needed to keep pace with inflation, and to allow for future
expansion of water services to meet projected demand. With the current debt-equity ratio of about 1.5,
SAJ should undertake no further borrowing until it arranges for sufficient revenues to remain financially
viable.
xiii.   Lessons Learned. Three primary lessons emerge:
a)     The availability of sufficient supervision resources was critical in allowing Bank staff and
consultants to play an effective role in the institutional development of the water entity.
Supervision funding was wisely employed to maximize the Bank's presence "on the
ground" through the use of qualified regional consultants. These consultants were often sent
ahead of the main Bank missions to collect data and prepare the water entity for the arrival
of the task manager, which leveraged the missions' effectiveness,
b)     Non-revenue water control measures were undertaken under an unconventional turnkey
contract which was successful in establishing leakage control zones and limiting physical
losses during the contract period. In countries with sufficiently developed consulting and
construction industries, this method of non-revenue water control could serve as a useful
model; and
c)     In retrospect, the timeframe envisioned for the project's ambitious institutional development
plan was too short. A great number of initiatives were programmed to take place
simultaneously, which taxed the capacity of an institution in the midst of massive changes.
This might have been foreseen with the input of an institutional expert during project
appraisal. Nonetheless, institutional development was of key concern to the appraisal team,
and the overall institutional measures planned were individually sound.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 2654-MA)
IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve piped water supply service to
existing consumers and extend service to new customers in the Johor Bahru metropolitan
area and in the urban and rural areas of the Batu Pahat and Kluang districts; (b) reduce the
dependence of Johor State on Singapore's water abstractions; (c) strengthen water supply
activities in the State through the creation of a separate Water Department and the
development of adequate institutional measures (manpower, training, a commercial
accounting system and improved financial management); and (d) ensure the financial
viability of the Water Department.
2.    The objectives were, for the most part, clear, appropriate, and timely. Improved
water supply was necessary to allow the rapid economic growth of Johor State during the
1980s and early 1990s. Johor's expanded reliance on its own water resources, in addition to
those of Singapore, was critical in light of growing demand in both Johor and Singapore.
Finally, the creation of a financially independent, viable water department for Johor State
was the single most pressing issue for the sustainable delivery of water supply in the region.
However, to literally ensure the financial viability of the Water Department beyond project
completion was not and is not feasible. The Bank has played a supportive role in maintaining
adequate tariffs, but this is an area which is clearly in the hands of the owners of the project.
Achievement of Objectives
Physical Outcomes
3.    The major physical objectives were met under budget with some delays. The target
of supplying 86 percent of the population by 1990 was actually met in 1992. By 1995,
however, 96 percent of the population was served. Smaller civil works such as the
construction of the headquarters building and several storage sites began implementation
later than expected, and some of these non-critical works were not completed by the time of
project closing. Overall project costs totaled M$ 194.04 at project closing compared to
appraisal estimates of M$ 311.74 The lower project costs were due largely to low bids
received during a downturn in the construction industry and to some reductions in project
scope. The implementation of the physical components took place in three main areas.
4.    Johor Bahru. This component consisted of the construction of: (i) an estuary
earthfill dyke 700m long and 8m high to create the Lower Layang reservoir of non-saline
water; (ii) a pumping station along the reservoir to supplement the Upper Layang reservoir
with raw water through a 2km long and 1.2m diameter transmission main; (iii) a pumping
station on the Chabang Tiram also to supplement the reservoir with raw water through a



2
4.5km long and 0.8 m diameter transmission main; (iv) a disposal system to treat sludge
from the treatment plant; (v) provision of electrical and pumping equipment for the two
pumping stations to deliver an average of 90 Mid as well as valves and ancillary equipment;
and (vi) strengthening of the district's water distribution system by supply and installation of
pipes, bulk meters, and miscellaneous equipment following completion of mapping, leak
detection and detailed design studies.
5.    The construction of the Chabang Tiram pumping station and associated transmission
main to supply additional raw water to the Upper Layang reservoir was shelved during the
bidding and ultimately dropped from the project as unneeded. The remaining work was
carried out under three contracts: (i) a 14-month civil works contract, number 10; (ii) a 12-
month contract, number I 1, for the design, supply, delivery and installation of M&E for the
remaining pump station as well as the Lower Layang sluiceway gate; and (iii) a 12-month
contract, number 16, for improvements to the reticulation system. The contract period for
the main civil works was extended three times for a total of 15 months while that of the
M&E contract was extended two times for a total of 7.5 months. The time extensions were
due mainly to delays in acquiring the land for the reservoir area and the sludge disposal
ponds from the owners of palm oil plantations.
6.    The improvements to the reticulation system under the project were financed
completely out of local funds, and took place between December 1985 and April 1988,
costing a total of M$ 4.17 million. The contract, number 16, was extended four times, and
the increase over the initial contract price was M$ 0.15 million.
7.    Civil works for the extension of the distribution network began much later than
expected due to long delays in the procurement of the design consultants. Due in part to
these delays, the Government canceled US$15.0 million from the loan on April 23, 1990.
The Johor Bahru Distribution Study ultimately took place between February and December,
1990 and identified M$ 300 million of distribution system investments in two phases. Four
packages were identified from phase I works for immediate project funding, costing
approximately M$ 36.15 million. A small portion of these works were not completed by the
loan closing date and are being completed out of SAJ's own funds.
8.    Batu Pahat This component consisted of: (i) construction of a raw water intake
designed for water abstractions of 120 Mld; (ii) construction of a 2 km long and 0.9 m
diameter raw water pipeline and a pumping station designed for 70 Mld; (iii) construction of
a treatment plant with a capacity of 60 Mid and related treated-water pumping station; (iv)
laying of 56 km of pumping and transmission mains of between 1. I m and .5 m diameter; (v)
construction of two I 1 Ml reservoirs; (vi) provision of the pipes and valves, electrical and
mechanical equipment for the construction of items (i) - (v), above; and (vii) extension and
rehabilitation of the regional distribution network through the purchase of bulk and
individual meters, after completion of leak detection and field surveys.
9.    The work above was carried out in six packages, each of which commenced between
June and August, 1987. There were major delays in construction as well as in the supply and
installation of M&E equipment. The overall delay in commissioning the water treatment
plant was about 19 months. Some early delays were unavoidable due to flooding in the
construction area. Generally, however, contractors' progress was much slower than



3
planned. On the other hand, the quality of civil works was quite good and there were no
water shortages or construction cost increases associated with the delays. In fact, final
prices of the two contracts for the supply of pipes, valves and fittings decreased by M$ 1
million, or 11 percent.
10.   Kluang. This component comprised: (i) construction of a treatment plant with a
designed capacity of 80 Mld at the Sembrong Dam site as well as raw and treated water
pumping stations, and laying of a 1 m diameter and 9 km long transmission line; (ii) laying of
some 120 km of transmission mains of various sizes (I m to 0.3 m diameter) to supply and
integrate a number of centers and agricultural redevelopment areas to the main distribution
network; (iii) supply of M&E equipment for the pumping stations as well as pipes, valves,
meters and ancillary equipment, (iv) construction of some 15 ground-level reservoirs with a
total capacity of 70 Ml; (v) drilling of some 6 boreholes and provision of pump and electrical
equipment to yield 10 Mld for the supply of part of the scheme; and (vi) extension and
rehabilitation of the regional distribution network.
11.   The above work was carried out under 8 contracts, most of which suffered from
delays which had no impact on water service to customers in Kluang. The Sembrong West
Treatment works, contract 30, were completed over a year later than planned after three
time extensions. Contracts 31 and 32 for the laying of various gauges of pipeline, were
completed a year and two months late, respectively. Contracts 33A and 33B for the
construction of service reservoirs, were completed 8 and 21 months late, respectively. The
Kahang Timur Treatment Works, contract number 34, were completed after a 3-month
extension. The 6 boreholes drilled revealed that the planned wells would not provide water
of adequate quality, and so a 10 Mld groundwater scheme, the Kahang Bahru Treatment
Facility, was designed and built instead. This contract, number 3 5, was completed after
several time extensions. As was the case in the other components, delays were encountered,
but with little impact on the good quality of the works, their price, or on water services to
customers.
12.   Smaller Civil Works. A program of construction of offices, workshops, and stores in
the various water districts, to permit increased operational autonomy and the concentration
of their activities was included in the project. At loan closing, the headquarters building and
half the district stores had been completed, 2 contracts for district stores were under
implementation, and 3 contracts for the construction of district stores were in the award
stage. SAJ is in the process of completing the construction of the regional stores with the
use of its own funds. The delays in construction of the additional office space were
appropriate due to the uncertainties surrounding the creation of an independent water
department and subsequent corporatization. Until the Water Department's assets were
separated from those of the State JKR, it was impossible to predict the most rational
placement of new facilities to promote the project objectives.
13.   Maintenance. Maintenance during project implementation was improved through
training programs and large NRW control efforts and was generally satisfactory. Two
studies of NRW control were completed in 1992, one of which resulted in a turnkey
contract with a private sector joint venture to reduce the level of NRW in Johor Bahru. A
consultant, teamed with an experienced utility sub-contractor, assumed responsibility for



4
planning and implementing the loss reduction program, including the procurement and
installation of all equipment and materials for field work. Payment was based on an annual
fixed-fee to be drawn on for procurement according to a schedule of rates, but consultant
fees were paid on the basis of "completed zones" comprised of monitorable distribution
areas, the NRW of which had been reduced below 20 percent. The contractor succeeded in
reducing leakage to below 20 percent in the 146 leakage control zones. Combined with an
aggressive program to reduce reservoir overflows, the overall average leakage was
maintained under 13 percent. This was despite 8 zones which suffered from chronic leakage
and for which economical control of NRW would require additional investments. Overall
NRW levels in Johor Bahru were reduced to about 26 percent from an estimated high of
over 45 percent in 1988. NRW control in the remaining water districts is being handled
directly by SAJ staff based on training received under the turnkey contract. The apparent
success of this contracting method deserves greater attention for possible replication in
other water projects supported by the Bank.
14.   Mechanical and electrical (M&E) maintenance has also been satisfactory.
Nonetheless, SAJ continues to suffer from a shortage of qualified staff. M&E crews service
SAJ's plants on a regular bi-monthly cycle, about half the preferred tempo of operations,
and some technicians apparently do not have sufficient credentials to legally carry out the
work they perform. The lack of qualified personnel in this and other areas is a problem
carried over from earlier operations when staff were often rotated frequently. SAJ
management is clearly aware of the need to hire and retain qualified staff in sufficient
numbers, and has made efforts periodically to speed up the hiring process. Importantly, since
corporatization, staff turnover at SAJ has been reduced significantly, improving the outlook
for maintenance performance.
Institutional Outcomes
15.   Organizational Status. The main institutional objective, to move the water supply
function from Johor State JKR to a new Water Department, was initially to take place by
January 1, 1987. This was to be accomplished in a manner consistent with the State Water
Supply Fund Act of 1980, which would have the practical effect of, among other things,
making the State's Water Department a separate, financially autonomous accounting unit,
including the maintenance of separate books and accounts in accordance with generally
accepted commercial accounting principles.
16.   Johor State ultimately established the Water Department, Johor Bahru Air (JBA), on
January 1, 1989, about three years after loan approval. However, changes took place in
name only. Successive Directors of JBA were not given the powers provided for in the
enabling legislation, including financial autonomy and the freedom to hire qualified staff in
adequate numbers. This ran counter to Section 3.01 of the Project Agreement. Moreover,
accounting systems were not established and audit requirements were not met, in
contravention of Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement. In the absence of accounts
prepared in accordance with sound accounting practices, it was impossible to (i) measure
whether the Water Department met the financial performance covenant (Section 4.02(a));
(ii) furnish to the Bank a satisfactory five-year financial plan required by Section 4.02(b); or
(iii) carry out satisfactory annual reviews of the adequacy of its rates and charges (Section



5
4.02(c)). While these institutional improvements may have appeared feasible at appraisal, it
quickly became apparent that the Government of the State of Johor would not or could not
meet these important loan covenants. This failure may have been due to Johor State's
reluctance to give up control of revenues from water sales, then its largest source of income.
The Bank fielded six supervision missions between January 1989 and June 1991, each of
which attempted to assist the State Government and JBA to move ahead on the institutional
development objectives of the project.
17.   When the situation failed to improve, however, the Bank decided its only recourse
was to announce the intention to suspend disbursements unless an Action Plan was put in
place to address the failures to achieve compliance with the project's legal covenants. A
letter was sent on August 8, 1991 to the Minister of Finance in Malaysia announcing the
Bank's intention to suspend disbursements on November 1, 1991 in the absence of an
acceptable solution.
18.   The Bank received on October 27, 1991 an "Action Plan to Remedy the Present
Situation" prepared by the Borrower, which proposed not only that JBA receive financial
autonomy by January 1, 1992, but also included a Johor State proposal to convert the JBA
to a Water Board by January 1, 1993. The Action Plan satisfactorily addressed the Bank's
concerns and disbursements were never suspended.
19.   After the submission of the Action Plan, institutional momentum increased. The step
of forming a Board was skipped and on December 22, 1993, the Johor State Legislative
Assembly passed the Water Supply Enactment 1993 and the Water Supply (Successor
Company) Enactment 1993. The former law provided for the establishment of regulations
for the management and operation of the water sector and the latter for the vesting of the
State's water supply assets and liabilities in a company to be established under the
Companies Act, 1965. Based on these Acts, Syarikat Air Johor Sdn. Bhd.(SAJ), a wholly-
owned state corporation, was gazetted and became effective February 1, 1994.
20.   The movement of the water supply function from a small division of the Johor State
JKR to a state-owned corporation during the project period was a major achievement, the
benefits of which are likely to increase into the future. The new corporate status of SAJ puts
increased emphasis on profitability, which will force management to pay even greater
attention to institutional strengthening measures to improve operational and financial
efficiency. Many improvements were made during project implementation, and continued
attention to refining the management of SAJ will be an ongoing process. One of the best
examples of institutional development progress being spurred by the new corporate status is
in the area of financial management.
21.   Accounting. Billing, and Auditing. SAJ has very recently made substantial progress
in upgrading its financial management capacity, despite delays in addressing this most
pressing institutional development need throughout the project period. On March 15, 1995,
SAJ appointed a local vendor for the supply, installation, testing, commissioning and
maintenance of a computerized accounting system and a billing system. The systems are
based on well-known commercial packages featuring client-server configuration and
dedicated telephone links to SAJ's eight district offices. The system was operational in late
1995 and is expected to become fully functional after additional training in some of the



6
district offices. The improved billing system will improve SAJ's collection efficiency and
improve its customer service operations, including debtor management. The linkages
between the billing and accounting systems will also improve SAJ's ability to close its books
at the end of each fiscal year. The installation of these new systems is a strong reflection of
management's awareness of the fundamental need for improved financial operations and
management information systems.
22.   At the beginning of the project, a cash accounting system for water supply operated
through the State Treasury. The lack of commercial accounting made it difficult to
determine the adequacy of tariffs and impossible to make meaningful analysis of the
efficiency of water operations. The project plan was to establish commercial accounts in
conjunction with the creation of a separate Water Department in 1987. Activities to
establish a computerized commercial accounting system were begun in 1988, but suffered
from repeated delays for a variety of reasons. These included the delays in creating the
Water Department itself, lack of qualified accounting staff, problems in reaching agreement
with central government ministries on the hardware to be employed for the system, and
multiple delays in hiring consultants.
23.   After two years of project implementation, these problems in establishing a
commercial accounting system began to seriously delay submission of audits required by the
Legal Agreement. By letter dated February 4, 1988, the Bank waived the legal requirement
for audits of commercial accounts for the years up to and including 1988, requiring instead
an audited cash flow statement for project expenditures and agreement that financial
statements would be prepared beginning with 1989. The cash flow statements were
delivered to the Bank in October 1989. To produce the financial statements for FY89 and
FY90, consultants were hired. In conjunction with this task, the consultants also helped to
establish a manual commercial accounting system which became operational in January,
1992. The opening accounts for FY89 and FY90 were completed on February 9, 1992, and
the financial statements for FY91 were submitted to the auditor in July 1992. These actions
eventually complied with the Bank's auditing requirement spelled out in Section 4.01 of the
Project Agreement, as amended.
24.   One of the largest problems in creating the accounting system was the reconciliation
of the billing. With the assistance of the Bank loan and significant Bank staff inputs, a
computerized billing system was developed and became operational in 1989. This
represented a major improvement over the existing system, but there were persistent
problems in coordinating the billing with the actual meter readings as well as maintaining
timely data entry. Due largely to these problems, major billing adjustments, up to 40 percent
of accrued revenues, were required each year to close the books. The need for such
adjustments therefore delayed the preparation of annual financial statements but also made it
impossible to produce accurate real-time financial information for management decision-
making.
25.   As a result of these billing problems, the auditor issued a qualified finding of JBA's
1989 and 1990 financial statements. The qualifications further concerned the transfer of
works in progress to the assets, which had a distorting effect on JBA's financial picture.
However, these qualifications, while justified, were largely a reflection of the difficulty of



7
retroactively reconciling the accounts. The subsequent quality of audits produced improved,
but delays of between 4 - 8 months in providing audits persisted throughout the project
period. Further improvements in the provision of timely financial management information
are likely with the introduction of the new computerized systems, which should allow SAJ
to take another institutional step forward.
26.   Manpower and Training. The training component was designed to establish a
continuing in-house capability to identify and meet training needs of junior staff beyond the
project period. The component was significantly delayed, but has ultimately been achieving
the project objectives. At the Johor State level, the training component comprised: (i)
training of three trainers of the training unit and of district engineers; (ii) provision of two
experts to assist the three staff mentioned above to develop and implement a training
program for junior staff and to implement O&M and management systems; (iii) development
of training programs for part-time tutors and junior staff, and (iv) upgrading of presently
available space and construction of additional buildings for a Training Center, and supply of
related equipment, furniture and vehicles required for the functioning of the Center and its
workshop. At the Federal level, the component would provide assistance in the
establishment of a cadre of four or five Training Development Officers, who would receive
comprehensive training abroad to enable them to establish training linkages between the F-
JKR and the State Water agencies and to assist in the development of in-house training
programs.
27.   The Johor State training component was delayed significantly by the failure to
appoint training consultants. Letters of Invitation were first sent in September 1986, but
financial negotiations with the first ranked firm were concluded unsuccessfully over a year
later. An invitation to submit a revised financial proposal was issued by the Federal Treasury
in March 1989, but the parties again failed to reach an agreement. A second attempt to
recruit training consultants began in November, 1989, and after a prolonged shortlisting and
evaluation period, as well as three rounds of financial negotiations, the training consultants
mobilized in June, 1991. The Bank fielded six 3upervision missions with training specialists
as members of the team throughout this period, which did serve to keep the training
component active despite the repeated delays.
28.   During this process, for example, the SAJ Training Center was constructed and
began partial operations in late 1989. By mid-1991, the Center was providing a limited
annual training program comprising three modules: (i) water treatment plant operations; (ii)
pumps and pumping operations; and (iii) meter reading. However, completion of the Center,
involving the construction of a water distribution training facility to provide hands-on
training in pipe maintenance and NRW control, was not completed until June, 1992.
29.   Even after the late start, training programs were ultimately created within the SAJ
Training Center to teach over 40 course modules in the following functional areas: (i)
computer applications; (ii) laying of pipe distribution; (iii) installation of pipe services; (iv)
polypipe installation; (v) automatic valves; (vi) effective middle management; (vii) pressure
pipe tapping; (viii) landscaping; (ix) motivation, self development; (x) meter reading; and
(xi) clerical development. In addition to training SAJ staff, the Center has opened its doors,
for a fee, to the public, in hopes of benefiting from the availability of better-trained



8
contractors capable of better implementation of water supply projects. Further, courses
directed at licensed plumbers hope to improve their compliance with good practices. The
Center is operating near its capacity; during the first seven months of 1995, over 504
participants were trained.
30.   Finally, regular training outside the Training Center is common, which reflects SAJ
management's awareness of the need for continued human resource development in light of
shortage of qualified and experienced staff Federal-level training initiatives, including study
tours, were carried out toward the end of project implementation. Overall, the training
efforts, while significantly delayed, are now meeting expectations.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   A slump in the construction industry during the mid-1980s, when most of the large
civil works were tendered, resulted in bids below the estimated costs and contributed to the
lower than expected overall project costs. However, when the economy boomed toward the
end of the 1980s, some contractors tended to focus their activities elsewhere, leading to
delays in the completion of the works. These construction delays, however, had little effect
on the cost of the project and did not lead to any reduction in water service to customers.
32.   An early impediment to the institutional development of the Water Department was
the federal personnel policy of frequent staff rotations. Many staff responsible for
implementing institutional reforms under the project were seconded by the federal JKR, and
had little previous exposure to the water supply sector. They were often rotated just as they
were becoming familiar with the issues and taking measures to upgrade the water
institutions, only to be replaced by new federal JKR staff with little or no prior experience in
the water supply sector. It is recognized that this issue was beyond the direct control of any
of the principle actors involved in project implementation, but it nonetheless was a cause of
many early institutional delays. The stability of the human resource regime since
corporatization is markedly improved and bodes well for further institutional development.
33.   Procurement disagreements between the implementing agency and the Bank related
to prequalification arose several times during project implementation. The implementing
agency desired on several occasions to award contracts to firms other than the lowest bidder
based on the opinion that the lowest bidder was not technically or financially capable of
carrying out the works. The Bank objected to this, pointing out that under ICB and LCB
procedures, prequalification limits the bidding to qualified firms. The implementing agency
pointed out the occasional difficulty of eliminating unqualified bidders during
prequalification, and argued that it had sufficient capacity to make a sound judgment. While
these disagreements over procurement policy did not have major effects on project
implementation, they impacted to some degree on relations between the Bank and the
implementing agency, and became a major point of discussion during the preparation of the
aborted Second Johor Water Supply Project.



9
Project Sustainability
34.   The physical sustainability of project benefits is likely, as it is closely linked to SAJ's
future management performance. As SAJ continues to mature, the focus on corporate
profits should lead to more efficient operations, including maintenance. SAJ has established
a good corporate planning office, which has done a fine job of investment planning.
35.   SAJ must continue to take actions which allow the organization to hire and retain
qualified financial and technical staff. Since corporatization, staff continuity has improved
dramatically, although there are still shortages of skilled staff.
36.   SAJ is financially viable as currently structured. It has an acceptable debt/equity ratio
of 1.5 as well as adequate reserves. Revenue, if collected more efficiently, would cover
short-term liabilities, including debt service and depreciation. Improvements are required in
settling doubtful debts and increasing collection efficiency. However, water tariffs are not
high enough to generate sufficient income for the needed future expansion. This is discussed
in more detail with respect to future operations. (see paras. 44 - 46.)
Bank Performance
37.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The project was consistent with the
Government of Malaysia's plans to upgrade and expand water services in Johor State under
the Fourth Malaysia Plan. The Bank's rationale for involvement in the water sector was
appropriate, focused on strengthening water institutions to better manage planning,
coordination and operations of water supply systems, as well as to introduce sound financial
concepts and practices. Further, the Bank's involvement during project preparation led to
selection of least-cost investments and the deferral of some major investments.
38.   Early supervision of the project was excellent in terms of frequency and quality of
advice. The Bank's supervision carefully documented the long delays in the water
department's institutional development and played a key role in resolving these issues. The
impediments to creating a separate water department and instituting sound financial
management were overcome with the heavy Bank involvement and close and cordial
relations with Malaysian counterparts. This intense involvement allowed the Bank to
credibly build the case that the institutional delays were threatening the project's
development objectives. In August, 1991, the Bank proposed suspension of disbursements
unless an action plan was agreed to achieve compliance with the loan covenants. An action
plan was developed and institutional development efforts increased dramatically.
39.   The Bank's later supervision was less-well documented although dialogue about the
institutional development of JBA, and later SAJ, continued as part of the preparation of the
proposed Second Johor Water Supply Project. Much of the formal pressure and proposed
assistance to further modernize SAJ's institutions, such as accounting systems, was
considered in light of the anticipated ongoing engagement, which ultimately failed to
materialize due to SAJ's decision to finance investments from local sources.



10
Borrower Performance
40.   The Borrower was the Government of Malaysia, which was generally very
supportive of overall project activities. However, the government policy of frequently
rotating staff hampered early institutional development.
41.   The performance of the State of Johor improved after the submission of the Action
Plan in 1991. Prior to that time, measures taken by Johor State and JBA were not deemed
adequate to meet the project objectives, and resulted in the Bank's threatened suspension of
disbursements in August 1991. However, since that time, the State has generally performed
very well, moving quickly to achieve and even exceed the agreed institutional developments.
It is imperative that the State, as the owner of SAJ, continue to pay close attention to SAJ's
future financial viability, including regularly raising tariffs to keep up with inflation or to
allow for needed system expansion. The State has an abiding interest in the ongoing sound
operational and financial performance of SAJ, and overseeing its continued development.
42.   Like that of Johor State, the performance of the implementing agency varied, largely
due to the multiple changes in legal status and resulting disruptions throughout the
implementation period. It is worth noting, however, that performance has improved toward
the end of project implementation, in keeping with the greater responsibility and autonomy
conferred during the process of departmentalization and corporatization. SAJ is a relatively
new corporation which has accomplished a great deal in a short time, but which must now
make even greater efforts to fully embrace corporate status, including instituting sound
management information systems, completing the accounting computerization, perfecting
the billings and collection process, and improving human resource management.
Assessment of Overall Outcome
43.   The project results are rated satisfactory. The project was very successful in meeting
its physical objectives, albeit with some delays. The institutional goal of creating an
independent Water Department was exceeded insofar as the water function has actually been
corporatized. However, other institutional development goals of the project were only
partially met during project implementation, although developments between project closing
and the writing of the ICR in the area of financial computerization are very encouraging.
The sustainability of the project is rated as likely. The physical works are being adequately
maintained, although additional attention to the retention of qualified staff is needed. The
institutional changes are unlikely to be reversed, and the overall sustainability of SAJ rests
largely on its continued attention to financial and operational efficiency improvements.
Future Operations
44.   The main issue with regard to future operations s financial sustainability. In January
1995, a proposed tariff increase was presented to SAJ's Board of Directors. The proposal
was for an increase of 15 percent for all tariff blocks except the commercial block, for which
a 50 percent increase was recommended. The Board determined that the increase was
approved in principle, but put off determining the date of enforcement indefinitely, pending
the state government election. Since the election, no further move by the Board to
implement the higher tariff has been taken.



I1
45.   SAJ is financially viable as currently structured. Unaudited accounts available for
SAJ's first year of incorporation reflect a before-tax profit of M$18.3 million, but with a
reduction in working capital of M$16.7 million out of reserves totaling M$37 1.0 million.
Due to a low collection efficiency, SAJ is currently financing short-term liabilities with long-
term debt, a situation which should be alleviated with the introduction of the more modem
billing and collection system currently being deployed. However, while the current
modernization of SAJ's financial management system should improve SAJ's cash flow,
profits are too low to finance needed investments in future water supply.
46.   SAJ estimates that investments needed to keep up with anticipated water demand
amount to about M$1 billion over the next 5 years. SAJ has developed access to a fairly
large source of local credit on favorable terms, but continued access to credit will depend
largely upon SAJ's ability to raise sufficient revenues to service its large debts, common to
water utilities. The State of Johor maintains control over water tariffs, which were last
raised in 1991. With the consumer price index in Malaysia rising by an average of about 4
percent per year since then, there has been a real decrease in water tariffs of about 20
percent. A tariff increase is therefore needed to keep up with inflation, and to allow for
future expansion of water services to meet projected demand. With the current debt-equity
ratio of about 1.5, SAJ should undertake no further borrowing until it is guaranteed
sufficient revenues to remain financially viable.
Key Lessons Learned
47.   Lessons Learned. Three primary lessons emerge:
a)    The availability of sufficient supervision resources was critical in allowing
Bank staff and consultants to play a full role in the institutional development
of the water entity. Supervision funding was wisely employed to maximize
the Bank's presence "on the ground" through the use of very qualified
regional consultants. These consultants were often sent ahead of the main
Bank mission to collect data and prepare the water entity for the arrival of
the task manager, which leveraged the missions' effectiveness,
b)    Non-revenue water control measures were undertaken under an
unconventional turnkey contract which was quite successful in establishing
leakage control zones and limiting physical losses during the contract period.
In countries with sufficiently developed consulting and construction
industries, this method of NRW control could serve as a useful model. (See
para. 13); and
c)    In retrospect, the timeframe envisioned for the project's ambitious
institutional development plan was probably too short. A great number of
mitiatives were programmed to take place simuitaneously, which taxed the
capacity of an institution in the midst of massive changes. This might have
been foreseen with the input of an institutional expert during project
appraisal. Nonetheless, institutional development was of key concern to the
appraisal team, and the overall institutional measures planned were
individually sound.



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial  Partial     Negligible     Not aplicable
Macro policies                                                        I
Sector Policies           I
Financial objectives                    I
Institutional development               I
Physical objectives       I
Poverty reduction                                                     I
Gender issues                                                         I
Other social objectives                                               I
Environmental objectives                                              I
Public.sector management   I
Private sector development   I
Other (specify)                                                       I
B. Project sustainabilitv              Likely             Unlikelv     Uncertain
If
C. Bank performance               Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                                       I
Preparation assistance                               I
Appraisal                                            I
Supervision                                          I
D. Borrower performance           Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                          I
Implementation                                       I
Covenant compliance                                  I
Operation (if applicable)                            I
E. Assessment of outcome    Satisfactorv    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactorv
I/



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year
Loan Title                          Purpose                  Approved          Status
Kuala Lumpur Water  Improve standards of health and sanitation in    1969    Closed. PAR No. 1244
Supply Project      some of the more densely populated areas of         dated July 23, 1976
(Ln. 561-MA)        Kuala Lumpur by extending and improving
the city's sewage collection and treatment
Second Kuala        Increase further the water supply service in  1973    Closed. PAR No. 4244
Lumpur Water        the Kuala Lumpur area                               dated December 30,
Supply Project                                                          1982
(Ln. 908-MA)
Kuala Lumpur        Expand and modify the city's existing      1976    Closed. PCR No. 6433
Sewerage Project    municipal sanitary sewerage system, and             dated October 6, 1986
(Ln. 1213-MA)       provide service to three new zones in Kuala
Lumpur.
Table 3: Proiect Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned            Date actual/latest estimate
First mention in files                                                 2/7/84
Identification                                                         5/11/84
Pre-appraisal                                                          6/19/84
Appraisal                                 10/84                        11/20/84
Yellow cover meeting                                                   5/23/85
Negotiations                              10/85                       11/6-8/85
Board presentation                                                     2/25/86
Signing                                                                3/26/86
Effectiveness                            6/24/86                       7/16/86
Project completion                       3/31/91
Loan closing                             3/31/92                       3/31/95



14
Table 4: Cumulative Disbursements (Planned v. Actual)
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Formally Revised
Fiscal Year/Semester   Planned Disbursements      Estimate          Actual Disbursements
1986
June, 1986                               2.00
1987
December, 1986                           3.50                  3.83                   3.83
June,1987                                5.90                  4.88                   4.88
1988
December, 1987                          10. 00                 6.30                   6.30
June,1988                               14.80                 10.72                  10.72
1989
December, 1988                          20.50                 15.39                  15.39
June, 1989                              27.70                 20.45                  20.45
1990
December, 1989                          34.10                 22.38                  22.38
June,1990                               40.60                 26.71                  24.38
1991
December, 1990                          48.40                 31.79                  26.82
June, 1991                              53.40                 36.87                  28.72
1992
December, 1991                          58.90                 41.94                  29.67
June,1992                               62.00                 47.00                  31.90
1993
December, 1992                                                47.00                  33.14
June, 1993                                                    47.00                  35.02
1994
December, 1993                                                47.00                  37.38
June, 1994                                                    4700                   41.73
1995
December, 1994                                                47.00                  42.01
March, 1995                                                   47.00                  42.22
1996
September, 1995                                               44.25                  44.25
Disburserments (Planned v. Actual)
70
60
/          ~~~~Formally
150
!=
40
C
20
E30



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Proiect ImDlementation
_1985 (SAR)  1986   19S7    1988 | 1989   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
PoDulation
Tdal population (mIn)                 1.86    -       1.83    1.89    1.95    2.01    2.07    2.14      2.2    2.27
Population served                     1.34            1.26    1.35    1.44     1.55     1.7    1.86    2.01    2.17
Population served %                   0.72            0.69    0.71    0.74    0.77    0.82    0.87    0.91    0.96
Demand
No. of connections ('000)            243.5            -       -        325      349     380     416     453     495
Water self-produced (min m3)          80.2                                       86     145     151     162      89
Water purchased (mln m3)              61.4                                      51       64     119     121     268
Total water in systems (mln m3)      141.6             153     192     173      195     249     236     241     283
Unaccounted-for water (%)               35              46      53      39       24      35      26      24      26
Financial
Water sold (MR million)               39.1    41.9    53.8    52.3    99.9    79.6    99.9   122.7   133.1   161.3
Industrial (MR million)           10.50     12.7   30.7   24.1    45.9    36.6    45.9   56.5    61.2    74.2
Residential (MR million)          26.40     26.4   18.4   26.1    49.9    39.8    49.9   61.4    66.6    80.7
Average tariff (MS)                   0.46    -       -       -       -        0.54    0.62    0.72    0.73    0.78
Operating ratio (O/D)                 95.3    76.7   60.2    69.2    53.5    73.5    62.9    74.9    77.6    83.3
Debt service ratio (%)                 2.6    -       -       -      21.05    42.89    9.54   21.02   20.02   16.74
Collection as% of billings             100     100     100     100   64.06    95.35   89.62    94.9    97.8   93.18
Collections (MR million)              39.1    41.9   53.8    52.3       64     75.9    89.5   116.5   130.2   150.3
ManaBement
Dayr accounts receivable                34    -       -       -        186     266      245     216     239     198
No. of employees                       971                                     981    1014    1160    1241    1587
Employees/1,000 connections              0                                      2 |    2 2.8  2.7  28   2.7     3.2
Number of new connections (induat)                                             1815.0  2561.0  4028.0  5416.0  6697.0
Number of new connections (resid.)  I                                          22277  29603  30776   31732  35181



16
Table 6: Studies Included in the Proiect
Study Name             Purpose as defined at    Status   Impact of Study
Appraisal/redefined
NRW Study, Johor       Examine and propose    Complete  Led to the signing of turnkey contract
Bahru                  measures to reduce                for the control of NRW in 9/92. By
NRW                               1993, leakage was reduced to below
18% in 146 leakage control zones.
Addition to contract included
replacement of 8000 defective meters.
Total NRW in JB reduced to 25%.
NRW Study, West Johor  Examine and propose    Complete  SAJ continuing efforts to implement
measuies to reduce                study.
NRW
NRW Study, Kluang      Examine and propose    Complete   Kluang district engineers received
measures to reduce                significant NRW control experience
NRW                               and training and continue NRW
control efforts in-house.
Distribution Study Johor  Detailed design of  Complete   Defined Phase I works, some of which
Bahru                  distribution networks in          were financed by the project.
Johor Bahru.                      Remaining works are ongoing to
design standards of study.
Distribution Study West  Detailed design of   Complete   Works ongoing to design standards of
Johor                  distribution networks in          study.
West Johor
Distribution Study     Detailed design of     Complete  Further clarification of study required.
Kluang                 distribution networks in
Kluang
Implementation of      Established Accounting   Complete  Formed the basis of commercial
Commercial Accounting  format and procedures             accounts kept by JBA (and now SAJ.)
System                 and aided in the                  This was not included in the project at
establishment of opening          appraisal.
balances



17
Table 7: Proiect Costs and Financing
Project Costs
(M$ Millions)
Local            Forei            Total
SAR     Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR   Actual
Civil Works                  59.11    35.95    37.68    36.78   73.63   72.73
Construction & Supply         -       23.82      -     31.94   23.82   55.76
Equipment                    45.02     1.74    72.53    24.05   74.28   25.80
Training                      0.55      -       2.50     1.79    2.50    1.79
Engineering/Studies           8.12     8.75     5.16    21.25   13.91   30.00
Land Acquisition             12.12     7.95      -       -      7.95    7.95
Contingencies                31.84             37.10           37.10
Total                    156.77    78.22   154.97   115.81  311.74  194.04
(US$ Millions)
Local            Forei            Total
SAR     Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR   Actual
Civil Works                  23.65    14.38    15.07    14.71   38.72   29.10
Construction & Supply         -        9.53      -      12.78    -    22.31
Equipment                    18.01     0.70    29.02    9.62   47.03   10.32
Training                      0.22      -       1.00    0.72    1.22    0.72
Engineering/Studies          3.25      3.50     2.07    8.50    5.32   12.00
Land Acquisition              4.85     3.18      -       -      4.85    3.18
Contingencies                12.74      -      14.84     -    27.58
Total                     62.72    31.30    62.00    46.34  124.72   77.63
Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
Local            Forei            Total
SAR     Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR  I Actual
IBRD                          0.00     0.00    62.00    44.25   62.00   44.25
Federal Loan to Johor        62.72    31.30     0.00    2.09   62.72   33.38
Total Financing             62.72    31.30    62.00    46.34  124.72   77.63
Note: Exchange rate: US$ = M$2.50



18
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
IRR Sununary, Johor Bahru, West Johor, and Kulang
ICR Recalculation
Capital    OsM                  Watcr                       Avg.Water    Total    Total     Net
Investments  Costs    Other costs   Demand   Avg. %   NRW      Tariffs    Benefits Costs (SM  Benefits
Year   (Ms mil)  (MS mil)  (MS mil)    (Mld)       NRW       (Mid)  (MS/1000 1) (SM mil)   mil)  (Ms mil)
1985     80.00     0.00         0.00    18.00       0.50     9.00       0.50       1.64    80.00   -78.36
1986     20.20     5.04         0.00    60.00       0.50    30.00       0.50      5.48    25.24   -19.76
1987      10.63    8.40          0.00   100.00      0.46    46.00       0.50      9.86    19.03    -9.17
1988     39.10    10.33          0.00   123.00      0.53    65.19       0.50      10.55    49.43   -38.88
1989     30.06    10.91          0.00   130.00      0.39    50.70       0.50      14.47    40.97   -26.50
1990      19.09    11.75         0.00   140.00       0.24    33.60      0.54      20.97    30.84    -9.87
1991      12.26    15.53         0.00   185.00      0.35    64.75       0.62      27.21    27.79    -0.58
1992      14.92    18.47         0.00   220.00      0.26    57.20       0.72     42.78    33.39     9.39
1993      18.24    19.73        0.00   235.00       0.24    56.40       0.73     47.59    37.97     9.62
1994     22.87    20.99         0.00   250.00       0.26    65.00       0.78      52.67    43.86    8.81
1995      12.67    21.41         0.00   255.00      0.30    76.50       0.78      50.82    34.08    16.74
1996      0.00    23.09          0.00   275.00      0.30    82.50       0.78      54.80    23.09    31.72
1997      0.00    23.93          0.00   285.00      0.30    85.50       0.78      56.80    23.93    32.87
1998      0.00    24.93          0.00   297.00      0.30    89.10       0.78      59.19    24.93    34.26
1999      0.00    25.94          0.00   309.00       0.30    92.70      0.78      61.58    25.94    35.64
2000       0.00    26.44         0.00   315.00       0.30    94.50       0.78     62.78    26.44    36.33
2001       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2002       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2003       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2004       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2005       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2006       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2007       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2008       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2009       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2010       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2011       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2012       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2013       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2014       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2015       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2016       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2017       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
2018       0.00    27.12         0.00   323.00       0.30    96.90       0.78     64.37    27.12    37.25
280.04   754.96         0.00                        80.67       0.64   1737.86  1035.00   702.86
IRR                                                                                                     9.3%



19
Table 9: Status of Leeal Covenants
Section          Covenant Description      Status            Comments
Loan Agreement
3.01(a)(i)      Carry out federal training  OK              Completed
program
4.01            Audits                     OK                Complied late
5.01(c)         Remedies of the Bank may    OK              JBA sought and received Bank
be applied when Johor shall                 clearance for corporatization.
have taken any action for the
dissolution of
disestablishment of the Johor
Water Department
Project Agreement 
3.01            Johor shall establish Johor    OK           JBA was formally established
Water Department by                         1/1/89, retroactive to 1/1/87. JBA
January 1, 1987.                            was corporatized on 1/1/94.
3.02            Water Department to operate  OK              Significant progress made to
according to sound                         improve institutional development.
administrative, financial and
engineering practice under
supervision of experienced
staff in adequate numbers.
3.03            Water Department shall     OK               Maintenance was adequate, but
operate and maintain its                    additional improvements are
plant, machinery and                        needed.
equipment
4.01(a)         Maintain records and       OK               A manual commercial accounting
accounts in accordance with                 system was put in place for most of
sound accounting practices.                 project period; System has now
been computerized.
4.01(b)         Audits                     OK               Audits were consistently late;
requirements for commercial
account audit waived early in
project.
4.02(a)          Sound financial operation  OK              It is debatable whether a reasonable
covering costs                              proportion of the cost of year-to-
year expansion of SAJ is allowed
for under current tariff structure.
4.02(b)         Furnish by 9/30/87 the Johor  OK            A long-term financial projection
WD five-year financial plan                was prepared as part of the
(FY1988- 1992)                              Corporatization Study.
4.03            Prepare a tariff plan by   OK                Complied.
9/30/87 and implement it.



20
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff InDuts
Project Stage    Staffweeks           Dollars
Preparation         19.7              36,800
Appraisal          39.4               74,400
Negotiation/Board    17.5             34,900
Supervision        183.8             406,700
ICR                 7 0               28.000
Total             267.4              580,800



21
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Mission Tyoe     Mission Dates       Mission Personnel
Identification   3/18 - 4/6/84       Engineer, Training Specialist, Fin. Analyst
Preappraisal     6/10 - 6/28/84      2 Engineers, Training Consultant, Fin. Analyst
Appraisal        11/20 - 12/11/84    Engineer, 2 Fin. Analysts, Training Specialist
Pre-negotiation    6/24 - 7/3/85     Engineer, Lawyer
Ln. Ofcr Review   7/4 - 7/26/85      Loan Officer
Supervision I    3/4 - 3/24/86       Engineer, Fin. Analyst
Supervision II   10/17 - 10/27/86    Engineer, Fin. Analyst, Disbursement Officer
Supervision III    11/11/86          Engineer - consultant
Supervision IV   3/7 - 3/10/87       Engineer, Computer Specialist
Supervision V    7/4 - 7/6/87        Engineer
Supervision VI    9/6 - 9/7/87       Computer Specialist
Supervision VII   11/30 - 12/8/87    Engineer, Fin. Analyst, Urban Specialist
Supervision VIII  2/29/88            Training Specialist
Supervision IX   4/22 - 4/30/88      Fin. Analyst, Engineer
Supervision X    5/4 - 5/7/88        Computer Specialist
Supervision XI    10/7 - 10/13/88    Fin. Analyst, Engineer
Supervision XII   7/16 - 7/24/89     2 Fin. Analysts, Engineer, Training Specialist,
Computer Specialist
Supervision XIII  10/16 - 10/18/89   Fin. Analyst, Computer Specialist
Supervision XIV   3/12 - 3/20/90     Fin. Analyst, Engineer, Fin. Analyst - Cons.
Supervision XV    10/7 - 10/13/90    Fin. Analyst, Engineer, Computer Specialist
Supervision XVI   5/4 - 5/23/91      Fin. Analyst - Cons., Training Specialist
Supervision XVII  6/1 - 6/4/91       Fin. Analyst, Engineer
Supervision XVIII 12/1 - 12,'4/91    Engineer
Supervision XIX   2/19 - 2/28/92     2 Fin. Analysts, Engineer, Management
Consultant, Division Chief
Supervision XX    11/23 - 11/27/92   2 Fin. Analysts, Engineer, Management
Consultant
Supervision XXI   10/27 - 11/5/93    2 Fin. Analysts, Engineer, Economist, Private
Sector Participation Specialist, Systems
Development. Specialist
Supervision XXII  7/10 - 7/15/95     Fin. Analyst, Engineer, Division Chief
ICR Mission      3/11 - 16/96        Operations Analyst



22
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LN. 2654-MA)
AIDE MEMOIRE OF THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
MISSION UNDERTAKEN DURING THE PERIOD MARCH 11 -16,1996.
1.    A completion mission of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank), comprising Mr. Kevin Page, Operations Analyst, visited Malaysia
from March 11 - 16, 1996 to review the implementation of the Johor Water Supply Project
(Ln. 2654-MA) and to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be
submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors on April 30, 1996.
2.    The mission would like to thank the officials of the Syarikat Air Johor Sdn. Bhd.
(SAJ) and the Federal Government for the courtesies extended and their cooperation in
reviewing and compiling the data for the ICR. The understandings reached are subject to
clearance by Bank Management in Washington, DC.
Implementation Results
3.    Based on the current analysis of the information available to the mission, the project
successfully met its development objectives. The mission will, therefore, recommend that the
ICR include an overall satisfactory rating for the outcome of the project. The mission
strongly endorses the ongoing efforts to improve the efficiency of billing and collections and
computerization of the commercial accounting system. The new systems appear to be
geared to the real-time provision of management information needed to ensure transparency
of operations to SAJ's management and Board of Directors.
Future Operations
4.    The mission notes, however, that with regard to its analysis of SAJ's future
operations, current revenues do not appear to be sufficient to allow for the proposed
investments required to expand water service to meet anticipated demand. The mission
further notes that water charges have not been increased since 1991. SAJ is highly
leveraged, and will need to arrange for increased revenues to service new debt related to the
expansion of water services to keep up with the very rapid economic growth and population
increases in Johor State.
5.    Section 4.02(a)(iii) of the Legal Agreement for Ln. 2654-MA, signed on March 26,
1986, provides that ".. Johor shall ensure that its water rates and charges are consistent with
sound business, financial and public utility practices and shall take necessary measures,
including but not limited to the setting of water rates and charges, as shall provide sufficient
revenues: ... (iii) to meet a reasonable proportion of the cost of year-to-year expansion and
improvement of the Johor Water Department." The mission would, therefore, recommend
that the State of Johor and SAJ agree to review water chaiges with the objective of
establishing a tariff formula that establishes the longer-term financial viability of SAJ.



23
Further Actions
6.     The mission has agreed with officials of SAJ and the Federai Government (the
Borrower) on the timetable of further processing of the ICR. A Draft Final ICR would be
delivered in early April, 1996 to the respective parties for their review and comment within
10 days. The mission regrets its inability to meet with State Officials due to lack of time, but
will assure that a Draft Final ICR would be supplied to the State of Johor for comment
within the same time frame.
7.     Finally, the mission agreed to follow up with the Bank's legal department to provide
the Bank's legal opinion on the relationship between the Bank and the State Government as
affected by the corporatization of SAJ.
Author:       Kevin Page
Final Version:    3/16/96
File:         C:\lIJOHOR\AM.DOC






103 40'                                                                103-50'                  tome(s0ty    o SeJ11                           104 00'
M  A L A Y S I A                                                               Kota Tinggi
JOHOR WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                                 UNGAI
Johor Bahru Water Supply Scheme: Phase IB                                                       JOHOR
UNDER                                                                                                                    past 0,  h e Oh ,    0,5,0 0O, J  lSO
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                                                                                       OnaoSP,.s.CopOh
Water supply mains                                                                                     eSl.hISIeSl'ISS1 eplancen1
-1 '40'    /                                         0       Pumping stations                                                                                                        40
U<as    /  *             Water treatment plants
J^  l    ~    \\X      Dams and reservoirs
Service reservoirs
\\        Distribution systems to be improved
Roads
-i------   Railways
International boundaries                                                       GHABANC7'1RAM
I                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~intake and
Senai                                                                                l U I u Tiram               punlipnngStation
KILOMETERS
o                          ~~~~~~LOWER
o                           ~~~~~~~LA YANG
K  UPPER                XAI XW          DAM
LAYANG         '        LC''VVE
XI                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAM   t
Pula                   ~Kem p as
UPPER LA YANG
(1 80MLID)
Seku ai       a SEKUDAI          .,4KNKN 
KONG KONG
< k *_ S-/ < ~~~~~~Pelentong 
,'A TTe barau                    BUKIT LUNCHU                               U
-1'30         Lima Kedai                                                                                                                                                           130\
J  /  X XBahru
BLH RIVER
Gelang Patah
> >                                           /                                       SINGAPORE E\
00  (- 103"40'/                                                                                       c03' 50'                   \                          d                104x00'    2 
0~~~~~~~ ~~~1 0340103' 50'                                                                                                                                           104'000     AC






IBRD 18824
7- -IAfLAND s P;n~~~~? Zd .ns ~.3                                       ,n .rat. PaloltjT                    r,o3 Ts                                                             Kt. Kahang BR182
- /   f   S O u r H                                        _                2           \     \  _  \                                                  //           , / e U N O VP~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  C N D A ' L R   ; s
SOUTH
CHINA
'5     MAt1AYSIA             SEA
nr1REi  -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FTR
INDONESIA      -    '         RE"                                                                Kr Baharu                                                                                    AH,   DAM       s
Kelsa,g                     -N N3 V-  |
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  N;  < FN \G
2 03~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ na IL                                            P ngeng
2 00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
SEA.RONG
\ongkang Pechnan      |                                     AerHitamr
~~~~~\~~~         \,                                    Sen= \an                   *'n   RaXja     /        9<                                              s
/ \SXKg. Lubok  \   \  )   j   -.-   _-. .   ~~~~~~~~ ,3SF,.ng.,7n              r        \            Iw~~~~MACHAP            Xega 
@t  i,  /   \           /                                                                                                   8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~atu Pahat and Keluang Water Supply Schemes
A- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
< g'    K g .  M A n y a k   B e k u   0 3 - i  \n  /n                                                                                                      in o |  ,s .n E f  S TI N G   RO n o seN
/Batu                                                           S" pa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 atrteamn pat
I 45                              -,                                                                                                                                  *      |*         Service renenorss,rs5
Paa                                                                                       RenggaaJOHO    WAE   SPPmYn  tAtiDnSANTTO                                       R JC
s Q              <           V                                                                           -   <   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D i s t r i o n r o n   s y s t e m   t o   b e   Im p r o v n d
rwrwo r           r-tw              -<>Q                                             \\                                                                                         Ser mce zonn KBatn Pahat and Keluang Schemes
_   B  \-                                                                                                                                                              Road s
Ct  .'remFngr.                                                                                                                                                         -.--------.-    Railw ays
ula_r S4 10 A5                                                                           2 -  ___ ___ ___  R                                                                     Dams and  reservNirs
sn,tr..n.E ,,vn.         0       2       a      ,                0                                                                                                        -     Rivers
_llo Eumpmg st_ /Benut
0  5           10          '5   ~~0                             nggi13Dam05and r15evo,r 5
.03'00 ODb''5'                                                                                                                        ,.'1  JO'









IMAGING
Report No:       15778
Type: ICR



