DocIuent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rkpot No. 12549
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
LUBUGF. HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 2382-CEA)
NOVEMBER 22, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12549
Type: PCR
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This docunent has a resticted distrution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name - Renminbi
Curency Unit - Yuan (Y)
At Appraisa (1982) $1.0 = Y 2.00
Exchange Rates During Project Years
Yearly Average             End of Ye
1984                     2.0615                    2.8027
1985                     2.9513                   -3.2095
1986                     3.4626                    3.7314
1987                     3.7314                    3.7314
1988                     3.7314                    3.7314
1989                     3.7317                    4.7339
1990                     4.8596                    5.2352
1991                     5.3603                    5.4478
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (in)  = 35.3 cubic feet (ft3)
1 metric ton  = 1,000 kiograms (kg)
I kilometer (kn)  = 0.6215 miles (mi)
I kilovolt (kV)  = 1,000 volts V)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)  = 1,000 kilovolt-apers (kVA)
1 megawatt (MW)  = 1,000 klowatts kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)  = 1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB    -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
AGN      -   Advisory Group of Norway
FCB      -   Fourteenth Construction Bureau
GOC      -   Govemment of the People's Republic of China
HWL      -   High Water Level
KHIDI   -   Kunming Hydroelectrc Investigation and Design Institute
LPCMB   -   Lubuge Project Construction Management Bureauj
SBC      -   Special Board of Consultants
SMEC    -   Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
TCC      -   Technical Cooperation Credit
YPEPB   -   Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORD SANIK
WmIton D.G 20433
USA
Offce of "rector-Oeasral
November 22, 1993
win5M  TO T   EXECUTIVE DIR11EClS AID T8E  ESIDERT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report %n China
Lubute  Hvdroelectr4c Project (Loan 2382-CRA&
Attached is the 'Project Completion Report on China - Lubuge
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 2382-CHA)' prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Region. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
This was the first Bank loan to the power sector in China. The
US$145.4 million loan increased the generation capacity for the Yunnan power.
grid. All but US$4 million were disbursed. Suppliers' credits remained unused.
Cofinancing was obtained in the form of grants from Norway, Australia and Canada
(US$10.8 million, US$4.8 million and US$160,000, respectively).
All project components were implemented including a fourth generating
unit added to the original scope. The loan introduced into the Chinese power
sector - with substancial benefits - not only modern technology, but
international competitive bidding for civil works, and the use of a Special Board
of Consultants. Generally, coordination between the Borrower, contractors and
eonsultants was good. However financial covenants were not met.
The PCR gives a thorough account of project preparation and
implementation which was mostly uneventful. Overall, the project is rated as
satisfactory, and its institutional impact as substantial. Its sustainability
is uncertain as it depends upon the consolidation of tariff reforms by the
government of the Yunnan Province.
The project may be audited together with other power projects in
China.
This doc=mt as a restricted distributin and may be used by recipients only In the petformane of
thelr official duties. Its conett may not otberiase n disclosed without World Dank authoriatio.



VOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CHNA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Pre1kce..............
EvaluationSummary ...
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERPECnVE
e  Itdentity ...........................   1
Backound ........................                              1
rQjctObjeive       ....................1
Pro.IectDesciption .........                                ........ 2
ProjectDesignandCOrpnization ..................    2
ProIectmplementation.    .................           ...       3
ctResults .         ......................                    4
FinanciilPerfonance .......................                    6
Project Sustainability  .......................                7
Bank Performance .......................   7
BornowerPerformance ........................    8
PrjectRelationsip ..      ......       .........10
Consuting Services .................10
ProjectDocmentatonandDa ta        .11
ConclusionsadRecommendatons.11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BOtROWER'S            PERSPEV
Adequacy andAcuracyofFactualnformation inPart m ........   13
Comments onth Anlysis  PtI.                                   13
EvaluationoftheBnksPerormane          ..14
Evaluation of the Borrower's Own Performance .                14
PART IH: STATISTICAL NFORMATION
Related Bank LAnS. ..                                         16
ProjectTimetable..                                            17
Loan Disbursements              ...                           18
ProjectImplementation.                ............   19
IPr.ectRess ..                             ...  20
ProjectCostsandFinancing     .         .                      23
Statusof Covenants     ...25
UwofBankcResurces  . .26
I',TNEXES
1.     Overseas Training
2.     EconomicAnayss
3.     Finucial Statements
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients oanl in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclred without World Bank authoriastion.



C1-
CEIUNA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first power project in
China, for which Loan 2382-CHA in the amount of $145.4 million was approved on
February 21, 1984. The loan was closed on June 30, 1992, against the original closing
date of June 30, 1990, two years later than originally expected. A total of $4.0 million
was canceled on January 5, 1991. Total disbursements under this loan were $141.4
million. Cofinancing for this project included a grant in the amount of NKr 88 million
(equivalent to about $10.8 million) from the Norwegian Government, a grant in the amount
of $A 6.8 million ($4.8 million equivalent) from the Australian Development Assistance
Bureau (ADAB), and a grant in the amount of Can$200,000 grant ($160,000 equivalent)
from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). No export/supplier's
credits were used tor the procurement of turbines, generators, and auxiliaries, as originally
planned.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I, and Part HI of this PCR were
prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Country Department IX (China
and Mongolia), of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Lubuge Project Construction Management Bureau (LPCMB).
Preparation of this PCR was based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the
Loan and Project Agreements; Bank supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank, LPCMB, and the Yunnan Provincial Power Bureau (YPEPB); internal Bank Group
memoranda; and a mission to China in February 1993. Valuable assistance and
cooperation were provided to the mission by the staff of the Beneficiary (YPEPB) and
LPCMB in the preparation of system information and financial statements, and in updating
statistical data, particularly those included in Part III.



- 11 -
CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.     The Government's strategy for resolving issues and achieving its objectives in the
power subsector is to (a) introduce modem methods and enhance technology transfer in the
power subsector; (b) set energy prices gradually to ensure the fimancial viability of energy
producers and encourage the rational use of electric energy; (c) increase autonomy in
investment and operation matters; (d) accelerate the pace of hydroelectric development,
construction of large coal-fired thermal power plants, and extension of extra high-voltage
transmission networks to transmit power to load centers and to interconnect major regional
power systems; and (e) replace obsolete and small thermal power generating plants with
larger and more efficient units, and convert expensive oil-fired generating units to coal-
firing to the extent practicable. The above objectives are being implemented step by step
through the lending operations in China. The Lubuge Hydroelectric Project is the first
power project in China, the objectives of which are detailed in Part I, pan. 3. 1.
Implementation Experience
2.     All the main physical components of the project were successfully completed.
The first 150 MW unit (Unit No. 4) was commissioned in accordance with the schedule
set in the SAR. The second and third units (Unit Nos. 3 and 2) were put in operation
about two-and-a-half and five months, respectively, behind the appraisal estimate, but were
ahead of the state's revised target dates.
3.     The actual cost of the project, when expressed in US dollars at prevailing
exchange rates, was about 8 percent lower than the appraisal estimate in spite of the
addition of the fourth unit that was not in the original project scope (pam. 6.2),
appreciation of foreign currencies with respect to US dollars, and higher local inflation
than originally forecasted (Part I, para. 7.2).
4.     Total loan amount disbursed was $141,500,000. The closing date of the loan was
extended twice from the original date of June 30, 1990 to June 30, 1992, because part of
the civil works was delayed and more time was needed for procurement of additional
equipment, spare parts, testing instruments, and engineering services (Part I, para. 7.5).



*            ~~~~~~~- iii -
5.     The covenants contained in the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement were met
with the exception of the revenue covenant and the debt service covenant (Sections 4.63
and 4.04 of the Project Agreement). The current tariff has not been adequately adjusted
to enable YPEPB to cover all the operating costs and debt services (Part I, para. 8.1).
Results
6.     All the main objectives of the project were met; Lubuge Hydro station is now
playing a key role in the Yunnan power system. In 1992, the four 150 MW units already
generated 2,394 GWh of energy and 627 MW of valuable pealdng capacity, about
21.2 percent and 25.7 percent, respectively, of the system total, even though that was a
very dry hydro year.
7.     Outstanding results were achieved in the construction of the project, including,
for the first time in China, use of the Special Board of Consultants (SBC) and foreign
consultants in the optimization of project design, introduction of modem technology, use
of international competitive bidding for civil works, application of effective construction
management, successful cofinancing arrangements, and excellent coordination among
LPCMB, consultants, contractors, and manufacturers. The positive impact of the Lubuge
project on the construction industry in China far exceeded expectations.
8.     The training program of the project was carried out successfully. Altogether, 76
lectures attended by 1,100 participants were given ty the consultants in Kunming and at
the job site on engineering and design, modern construction technology, construction
management, opeJation and maintenance of specific construction equipment, contract
management and claim management. Thirty-six groups received a total of 292 staff-
months of overseas training under different sources of financing in the areas of enginering
and design, construction supervision and management, modern construction technology,
plant operation and maintenance, and financial management.
9.     The ex-post internal economic rate of remn (IERR) for the project was
10.2 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of 12.0 percent (Pant I, para. 7.6).
Sustainablity
10.    The benefits that YPEPB is reaping from the project are definitely sustainable,
since (a) YPEPB has demonstrated its ability to operate and maintain its facilities
efficiently; (b) the demand for electncity in Yunnan is growing rapidly and has already
absorbed fully the output of the plant within four years; and (c) GOC has consistently
shown its commitment to institutional improvement.
Flndings and Lessons Learned
11.    Major findings are as follows:



- iv -
(a) The project was well prepared and implemented. It has been operating
satisfactorily since June 1991 with the exception of the fourth unit (Part I, paras.
6.2 and 7.1).
(b)  The left bank landslide about 1.5 km upstream of the dam has been stabilized.
Drilling investigation and instrumentation observation confirmed that the slide
was a shallow movement in the talus area.
(c)  The local government reforested both banks with the Reservoir Maintenance
Fund, financed out of the revenues from power sales (Part I, para. 7.7).
(d) The resettement program was carried out satisfactorily (Part I, para. 7.7).
(e)  The dam and other important structures have been monitored and inspected
periodically, as required.
(f) YPEPB's financial perfonnance suffered from a lack of timely and adequate
increases in electricity tariff to meet YPEPB's revenue and debt service covenants
specified in the Project Agreement (Part I, para. 8.1).
12.    Major lessons learned from the project are summarized below:
(a)  Since this was the first power project in China, more time should have been
alowed in the project cycle. About 13 months elapsed between project appraisal
and loan negotiations to solve the issues of using SBC and foreign consultants,
cofinancing arrangements, agreement on using ICB for civil works, and
prequalification of bidders.
(b)  Because of the delays mentioned in para. 12(a), the construction schedule and the
loan closing date were unreasonably tight. The project completion date should
have been set six months after the commissioning of the last unit (June 30, 1990),
and the loan closing date should have been set about onc year after the project
completion date (June 30, 1991).
(c)  Contract packaging of procurement was very important for implementing the
project. The success of the first ICB contract for civil works in China stemmed
from the selection of the headrace tunnel as the first test case.  Tunnel
construction normally requires less labor compared with other civil works and is
carried out continuously cycle by cycle. A foreign contractor would therefore
be able to manage it more easily in a market environment prevailing at that time.
(d)  Introduction of the first Special Board of Consultants (SBC) to China was a
success. It was highly justified by the abundant engineering experience, correct
judgments, and recommendations of the board members. Not only did it save on
project costs but it also shortened the construction period so that some of the key
target dates on the critical path could be met. SBC's contribution would have



-V..
been even greater if it had been involved in the early stages of project preparation
diuring the review of project layout and selection of dam type.
(e)  lTns to the grant funds provided by the Australian, Norwegian, and Canadian
govemnments, convincing Chinese authorities to use foreign consultants for the
first time in China was possible. The contribution of these consultants to the
project was highly appreciated by all the related institutions because of their
valuable sereces in engineenng and design, construction management and
suprvision, and technology transfer and training. Foreign consultants have been
used since then for nearly all the Bank-financed projects. The Technical
Cooperation Credit's (TCC's) role in providing funds for project preparation
remains very important.
(f)  The turbines and generators of the Lubuge project were supplied by the Lubuge
Consortium consisting of Kvaener of Norway and Siemens of Germany. They
subcontacted part of the work to a local electrical and machinery works with the
first unit supplied mainly by Kvaener and Siemens, gradually reducing the share
of foreign partners' inputs unit by unit. While this was a logical arrangement for
transfernng technology and promoting domestic industres, it created the
problems of quality control and integrity of responsibility. The first unit has
been in operation since the end of 1988, generating 3,267 GWh (62.2 percent
capacity factor) of energy without any problems. In addition to the time lost
from a problem with the stator dunng erecton, the stator coil of the fourth unit
caught fire twice during initial operation in 1991 and 1992.



CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proect Identity
Name                 : Lubuge Hydroelectric Project
Loan Number          : 2382-CHA
RVP Unit             : East Asia and Pacific Region
Country              : China
sector               : Energy
Subsector            : Power
2. Background
2.1         The Yunnan provincial power grid had a total installed cpcity of
1,271 MW by the end of 1982, consisting of 754 MW of hydro (59.3 percent) and
517 MW of thermal (40.7 percent). Peak demand was 916.5 MW and energy generation,
5,360 GWh. The system was expected to -ow at ar. average rate of 7-8 percent over the
1983-91 period. The system had little resrve margin. To meet the expected load growth,
the system had to be expanded. YPEPB's strategy was to develop indigenous resources,
such as the mine-mouth coal-fired thermal station at Xiaolongtan (6 x 100 MW) and the
renewable hydro resoures, the Lubuge Hydroelectrc Project, as implemented. Both
projects formed parts of the least-cost sequence of development. The project was approved
by the Govemment of the People's Republic of China (GOC) in June 1981.
3.    Project Objectives
3.1         The principal objectives of the project were (a) to provide generating
capacity and energy to the Yunnan power grid; (b) to introduce modem technology in the
construction of dams, tunnels, and underground powerhouses; (c) to introduce ICB for
procurement of civil works and associated technical assistance; (d) to address financial and
auditing issues; (e) to introduce financial forecasting; (1) to promote cofinancing witi
bilatal and export credit sources; and (g) to provide staff trauning.



-2 -
4.   Piroject Description
4.1         The Lubuge Hydroelectric Project comprised the following:
(a) construction of a rockfill dam about 100 m high, a spillway system, an
intake structure, a 9.4 km headrace tunnel, a surge tank, two penstock
shafts with steel lininig, an underground powerhouse, a tailrace tunnel, with
a switchyard and provision of equipment therefore;
(b)   provision and installation of three generating units of 150 MW each, with
provision ultimately for a fourth unit;
(c)   provision and construction of two parallel 220 kV transmission lines (single-
circuit) of about 184 km each from Lubuge to Kunming and one 220 kV
transmission line (single-circuit) of about 129 km from Lubuge to Qujing
with associated substations;
(d)   consultant services, a Special Board of Consultants (SBC) and coiwstruction
management and supervision; and
(e) a training program.
5.    Project Design and Organization
5.1         Field Investigations. Feasibility study, engineering, and detailed design of
the project were carried out by the Kunming Hydroelectric Investigation and Design
Institutz (KHIDI). The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation (SMEC), financed
under a grant by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB), provided
services to Phase I-Phase III for project preparation in reviewing the project design,
preparation of bidding documents, bid evaluation, and training by 16 experts from
December 1982 to July 1984, totaling 57 staff-months. SMEC also provided services from
December 1984 to March 1989 for Phase IV in construction management and supervision
for the headwork complex and the water conductor system, technology transfer, conta
management, and erection supervision of the electrical and mechanical equipment and
taining. Forty experts contributed 310 staff-months to the services. The Advisory Group
of Norway (AGN), financed under a Norwegian grant, provided services for training,
construction management, and supervision of the underground powerhouse and tailrace
tunnel construction. Thirty-six experts contributed a total of 160 staff-months.
5.2         Entrusted by YPEPB, the Lubuge Project Construction Management Bureau
(LPCMB) was established in April 1984 to carry out site management of the project and
supervise the works constructed by the Fourteenth Construction Bureau (FCB) and the
foreign contractors/suppliers with the assistance of SMEC and AGN. This was the first
construction entity organized in China to supervise the project construction as the
'engineer' on behalf of the owner, YPEPB, for the tunnel contract, and to represent the
Ministry as the owner for the FCB contract.



6.   Project Implementation
6 1        The project was completed on December 31, 1991, about two years behind
the appraisal schedule and one year behind the revised target date set by the state. The
main reasons are:
(a)   addition of the fourth unit, which was not originally part of the project;
(b)   delay of part of the civil works, particularly the left bank spillway tunnel;
and
(c)   procurement of additional equipment.
6.2        The first unit was put into commercial operation on December 27, 1988, as
specified in the appraisal estimate, and three months in advance of the revised target date.
The second and third units were commissioned on September 19, 1989 and May 21, 1990,
respectively, about 2.5 months and 5 months behind the appraisal estimate, but ahead of
the revised target dates. The fourth unit (not part of the original project) was added later
on by the Ministry in order to generate more secondary energy during the wet season and
to provide reserve margin to the system. This ur.it was commissioned on June 14, 1991,
in spite of the delays caused by the poor quality of the laminated steel of the stator; it took
nine months to repair.
6.3        The 220 kV transmission line from Lubuge to Kunming I, including the
substation, was put into operation in November 1988, about one month ahead of the
appraisal estimate. The remaining lines were about six months (220 kV Lubuge-Kunming
II), 25 months (220 kV Lubuge-Qujing), and 21 months (110 kV Lubuge-Xinyi) behind
the appraisal estimate. They were purposely rescheduled in accordance with the system's
need to minimize early investment.
6.4        Training. The training program under the Lubuge project can be divided
into two main categories: domestic training and overseas training. Domestic training was
conducted mainly by two groups of consultants: SMEC and AGN. These groups gave
lectures on engineering and design, modern construction technology, construction
management, operation and maintenance of specific construction equipment, contract
management, claims management, computer application, and English, both at the job site
and in Kunming. Altogether, 76 lectures were given to a total of 1,100 participants. The
overseas training provided by the consulting groups, contractor, and equipment suppliers
totaled 292 staff-months in 36 groups in the area of engineering and design, construction
management, modem construction technology, financial management and accounting, and
plant operation and maintenance (see Annex 1 for details).
6.5        Through using foreign consultants and contractors and by introducing
modern technology in construction management, the Lubuge project elevated the design,
construction, and management capabilities in China and built up a team that can adapt itself
to modern construction for large hydroelectric projects. As the experience and personnel



4 -
of this project has spread to other projects, hydropower development of the whole country
has been enhanced.
7.    Project Relts
7.1         The project fully achieved its main objectives through successful completion
of 4 x 150 MW generadng units and associated 220 IcV and 110 kV transmission lines and
substations. The Lubuge station became the master plant of the entire Yunnan power grid,
providing 25.7 percent of peaking capacity (627 MW) and 21.2 percent of energy
generation (2,393 GWh) in 1992 (Part III). it also provides spinning reserve capacity to
the system for frequency and voltage control and enables optimal utilization of other hydro
resevoirs. The dam and other structures are being inspected periodically, as specified.
The project is functioning satisfactorily, with the exception of the generator of the fourth
urPit, because its stator caught fire on December 2, 1991, and again on Decembei 7, 1992
(because the stator coil end connection burned out). Since all the outages occurred in the
dry season, there was no major impact on the plant generating output.
7.2         The estimated cost of the project at appraisal (excluding IDC and other
financial charges) was Y 820 million in local cost and $205 million in foreign cost,
equivalent to a total of Y 1,230 million when expressed in local currency and $615 million
when expressed in US dollars at the then prvailing rate of exchange. The actual cost was
Y 1,354 million in local cost and $157 million in foreign cost, equivalent to a total of
Y 1,945 million when expressed in local currency and $567 million when expressed in US
dollars (see Part III for details). Compared with the appraisal estimate, it has a cost
undenrun of about 8 percent when expressed in US dollars and a cost overrun of about
58 percent when expressed in yuan. These variations were mainly caused by the
devaluation of the local currency from an exchange rate of Y 2 to $1 at the time of
appraisal to Y 5.45 to $1 by the end of 1991, the project completion date. The average
of the exchange rate over the construction period was Y 3.43 to $1.
7.3         Project costs, expressed in yuan terms, increased for three reasons:
(a)   The additional cost of about Y 78 mi1lion for the fourth unit was not
originally expected during appraisal.
(b)   Currencies used under the main contracts, such as Japanese yen and German
mark, appreciated against the US dollar.
(c)   Local rates of inflation used in the calculation of price contingencies were
on the low side (only 3 percent a year), compared with the actual inflation
during project implementation (about 7-8 percent a year).
7.4         The specific cost of the project was about $945 per kW installed. This
indicates favorble results achieved in constructing this cost-effective power project when
compared with similar hydropower projects in other countries.



-5 -
7.5         A summary comparison of the eaimated disbursements at appraisal with the
actual disbursements is given in Part III. The original loan closing date was June 30,
1990. The actual closing date was June 30, 1992, after two extensions dt, to the delay
of the civil works and the procurement at the late stage of the project oi gas-insulated
switchgear for integrating Yunnan power grid into one network ($11.5 million), spare parts
($2.3 million), testing instruments ($0.7 million), and engineering services for the fourth
unit and training ($1.0 million). Based on the revised cost estimate in late 1991, $4.0
million was canceled from the loan on January 5, 1991. The last disbursement of
$1,027,875.19 was made on July 1, 1992.  Total loan amount disbursed was
$141,500,000.
7.6         The economic reevaluation of the project was catried out as follows:
(a)   actual cost data were used for the project and associated transmission;
(b)   operational and maintenance costs were assumed to be 1 percent of the
capital costs, both for generation and transmission;
(c)   distribution and other costs were calculated based on YPEPB's financial
analysis reaching Y 0.008 per kWh in 1992 and thereafter;
(d)   the prevailing average tariffs were used as the minimum proxy of the
economic value of electricity;
(e)   a surplus benefit of Y 0.01 per kWh was added for surcharges collected by
the local governments for power development; and
(f)   all costs and revenues were converted to 1989 constant prices by aplying
price indexes for local and foreign costs.
On this basis, the ex-post internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the project was
10.2 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of 12.0 percent (Annex 2). The lower
return was due prmarily to the insufficient tariff increases.
7.7         Resettlement and Environmental Aspect. The population affected by the
Lubuge project was successfully resettled. Out of 818 people in Yunnan province, 418
were engaged in farming in nearby areas above the reservoir level, 300 were resetded in
a newly established village near Louping, and 100 were assigned to rservoir maintenance
and other development activities by the local governments. Of 569 people in Guizhou
province, most of them were engaged in farming in nearby higher areas, but some people
were settled in Moponshan county. The affected people were adequately compensated.
LPCMB prepared a detailed report on human resettlement in the project area that indicated
that the living standard of the resettled people improved considerably over that of the
preprqect time. The people were provided with more living area (about 40 m2 per capita),
drinkdng water, elecricty, and transportation and communication facilities. Also, new
modern schools and health centers were built. Those engaged in farming were provided-



-6
more cultivated land (about 1.1 mu per capita). The water conservancy and irrigation
facilites built during the project have already enhanced land productivity. YPEPB decided
to set aside Y I for every 1,000 kWh generated by the Lubuge plant to establish a
Reservoir Maintenance Fund, 80 percent of which was used by the local governments for
reforestation, fishery, and agricultural development activities; 20 percent was retained by
the power station for reservoir cleaning, maintenance works, etc. Local institutions have
been established to deal with such activities.
7.8         Instead of the traditional method of resettlement through compensation only,
a new approach was introduced at Lubuge with the cooperation of the local governments.
The approach consisted of helping the resettled people to engage in sideline activities and
combining the resettlement with the reservoir maintenance and development.
8.    Fiancial Performance
8.1         Salient features of YPEPB's finances over the period of 1984-92 are
summarized in Annex 3. YPEPB's actual financial performance was less than satisfactory
and fell short of expectations. YPEPB was not able to comply with the revenue and debt
service covenants [Section 4.03(a) and Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement] since 1988.
YPEPB met only on average 51 percent of its principal and interest payments due from
1988 to 1992, and the debt service coverage ratios of YPEPB over the same period
dropped be'-zw 1. As a result, substantial loan repayments to the People's Construction
Bank of China (PCBC) in the past five years were deferred. YPEPB's finances were
adversely affected by (a) the higher-than-expected local inflation rates (3 percent a year
projected in the SAR versus 7-8 percent a year actual and over 10 pe ;ent a year for
construction work) during the implementation period; (b) the devaluation of the local
currency from an exchange rate of Y 2 to $1 at appraisal to Y 5.45 to $1 by the end of
1992; (c) the escalated debt service requirements due to the above two factors; and (d) the
slow pace in tariff adjustment. Although its tariff level increased (8 percent a year) faster
tha-i appraisal forecast (3 percent a year), increases in operating cost (19 percent a year)
outpaced the tariff increase by a significant margin. Fuel costs, mainly coal prices, went
above even the general price increase. Dunng appraisal, the price for standard coal was
projected to increase by 3.5 percent in 1985 and 3 percent in 1986 and onwards. The
actual price for coal increased by 12 percent a year during 1984-92. The moderate growth
in electricity sales, which was close to SAR projections, only partally offset the negative
impact on YPEPB's pro.fttability. The rate of return on net fixed assets based on historical
value before income tax declined to its record low level of 3.7 percent in 1988 and only
recovered to 5.6 percent by 1992. Consequendy, YPEPB has experienced great difficulties
in meeting its financial obligations.
8.2         During the period under review, YPEPB's average tariff would have to be
increased at a pace of 12 percent a year to comply with the Bank's financial covenants.
However, regulatory body or well-defined mechanism enforcing tariff adjustments so far
does not exist in China. In the case of YPEPB, the provincial price bureau decides on its
annual tariff adjustment. The provincl government was overly concerned about pnre
stability in the province and approved only a fraction of the proposed price increases in the



-7-
past few years. The general guideline of "new plant, new price" set by the centra!
government has not been fly implemented in Yunnan. In fact, for most industries, the
share of electrcity cost is less than 3-5 percent of their total operating expenses. An
accelerated adjustment of the electricity tariff for most industrial users would not have a
significant impact on inflation. Since YPEPB is no longer able to rely on government's
budgetary support and given the huge investment plan along Lancangiiang in future years,
it is imperative that the pace and magnitude of tariff adjustment be increased. It is
encouraging to note that the provincial government has alrdy approved and implemented
an increase of about 31 percent over 1992 in the average tariff for 1993.
8.3         The Bank's objective to promote prudent financial management at the entity
level was achieved through YPEPB's compliance with the financial covenant that required
YPEPB to prepare long-term financial planning, focus on its trend of production costs as
well as its fuure investment program and related financing arrangements, and annual
review of such plans with the Bank.
9.    Project Sustanabi}ity
9.1         The growth of YPEPB electricity sales has been averaging about
10.5 percent a year over the past three years (1990-92). Sales of electricity sales are
expected to continue to grow at an average of about 10 percent per year into the 1990s.
The output of the Lubuge project has been fully absorbed by the system within four years
of operation. The completion of the Xiaolungton thermal power project (6 x 100 MW) by
the end of 1992 and the commissioning of the first unit of the Manwan hydroelectric
project expected in 1993 will timely provide the system with needed capacity and
electricity, even with surplus to export to Guangdong province through the Tanshengqiao
transmission network. These projects formed not only part of the least-cost development
program for YPEPB, but also met the objectives of GOC's energy policy by maldng
optimal utilization of China's indigenous energy resources of coal and hydro potential.
9.2         YPEPB has adequately trained its staff to operate the facilities efficiently
under the project. More than 80 percent of the plant staff are high school graduates or
above. They are a well-educated operating force who have been trained adequately, both
domestically and overseas.
10.   Bank Performance
10.1       The performance of the Bank from project preparation through project
completion was satisfactory. The Bank maintained good relations with YPEPB, LPCMB,
KHIDI, and the consultants throughout execution of the project.
10.2       In addition to the timely completion of its first major hydropower project
in China, the Bank made the following noteworthy achievements:
(a)   Cofinancing Arrangements. The Bank successfully obtained support from
the governments of Australia, Norway, and Canada to finance the consulting



services and SBC for the Lubuge project. Without this support, convincing
Chinese entities to use foreign consultants would have been difficult.
(b)   ICB for Civil Works. The Bank obtained the agreement from GOC to
experiment with ICB for civil works for the first time in China. Through
the joint efforts of Bank engineers and procurement advisors, the details of
supplying labors and materials, which were fair to foreign and local bidders,
along with cntera for prequalifications, were worked out dunng the
preparation of bidding documents. The result of the ICB procurement, as
reflected in the quality of final product and contractor perormance, was
outstanding.
(c)   Packaging of Works for ICB and Division of ResponsibMty between
Consulting Groups.  To effectively demonstrate the importance of
construction management in a civil works contract, the headrace water
conveyance system was wisely selected as the package for ICB. SMEC was
assigned responsibility for the headwork complex, which included the main
dam and the headrace water conveyance system, and AGN was given
responsibility for the underground powerhouse and tlrace tunnel
component, to best udlize the comparative strengths of respective consulting
groups.
(d)   Training. A successfil training program was carried out by the consulting
groups, contractors and equipment suppliers for the staff of KHIDI,
YPEPB, and LPCMB in engineering and design, construction management
and technologies, and plant operation and maintenance.
(e)   Assistance in Procurement. The Bank discussed in detail with KHIDI and
LPCMB the ICB procedures, prequalification criteria for civil works bidders
and provided assistance for the finalization of bidding documents.
(f)   Assistance Provided in YPEPB's Financial Statements and Projections.
The Bank introduced the basic concepts of financial management and
Western accounting to YPEPB's financial staff. The assistance provided by
the Bank in this regard will facilitate YPEPB to move into the new
accounting system effective on July 1, 1993.
11.   Borrower Performance
11.1        KHIDI. KHIDI has been responsible for the field investigation, engineering
and feasibility study of the project since 1976. The preliminary design report was
completed in June 1991. With the assistance of foreign consultants, KHIDI was fully
involved in the detailed engineering and design of the project, prepration of bidding
documents for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, and construction
supervision of the project. KHIDI did an excellent job in design (para. 13.1 on design
optimization) and supervision, ensuring that construction was carried out as designed.



-9 -
Through the learig process by working together with foreign consultants, KHIDI has
developed itself into a well-established design institute. KHIDI is now involved in the
engineering and design of the Tianshengqiao High Dam Project financed by the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Funds of Japan and the cascaded development of hydro projects on
the Lancang river in Yunnan.
11.2        YPEPB. YPEPB entrusted LPCMB with full responsibility and power to
deal with any matter related to the project. During the critical period of 1988, YPEPB
sent several electrical engineers to participate in the erection and commissioning of the first
unit. The Lubuge General Power Plant, the operational unit of YPEPB, cooperated well
with LPCMB during the entire erection penod and established itself through domestic and
overseas training as a strong and experienced team for operating and maintaining the plant.
With the exception of the financial setback for not being able to meet the revenue and debt
service covenants, YPEPB was operated well and managed in a generally commendable
manner (see Annex 4 for YPEPB's performance from 1984 to 1992). Its expansion
program was carried out as originally planned to utilize effectively the indigenous coal
reserves and hydro potential. Total system losses were kept to an acceptable level of
7 percent. Capacity factors of thermal and hydro plants both operated favorably at around
50 percent.
11.3       LPCMB. LPCMB was responsible for overall project management. It was
well organized, staffed, and led by a group of experienced and capable engineers. It
played an important role in coordinating, supporting, and managing the designer (KHIDI),
the contractors (laisei and FCB), and the consultants (SMEC and AGN). LPCMB paid
high regards to the Bank's project management from appraisal to follow-up supervision and
to the Bank's emphasis on technology transfer, institution building, and staff training.
LPCMB is preparing a paper to summarize their findings and the lessons learned.
11.4       Taisei Corporation. Taisei Corporation of Japan was the contractor for the
headrace water conveyance system. Notice to proceed was issued on July 1, 1984, about
seven months behind schedule. Because of its excellent planning of construction equipment
and field management, it set a world record in tunnel excavation and concrete lining for
an 8.8 m diameter tunnel. Average monthly progress for excavation (by the full face
method) was 231 m, with a maximum of 873.7 m. Average monthly progress for concrete
lining was 187 m, with a maximum of 270 m. The contract was completed on August 13,
1988, about four months ahead of the contracted schedule.
11.5       Fourteenth Construction Bureau (FCB). FCB was the contractor for the
headwork complex, underground powerhouse, and tailrace tunnel. Preparatory works were
completed in 1982. Diversion tunnel excavation started in December 1982. River closure
was made on November 15, 1985, as scheduled. Reservoir impounding was started on
November 21, 1988, to create the conditions for operating the first unit by December 27,
1988. The dam embankment reached the designed crest elevation of 1,138 m in July 1989.
The performance of the works can best be demonstrated by the following indicators:



- 10-
Design Value            yMasued
Core wall settlement of the
maximum section (mm)
Upon conpletion                      2,700               1,651  (07/89)
2.5 years after completion           3,800               1,762  (02/92)
Total leakage through the dam
(liter/sec)                             281                 101  (12/88)
(IWL 1130)          (IWL 1110)
87 (12191)
(HWL 1130)
Other displacement measurements for the high walls of the spillway and the underground
powerhouse indicated that everything was normal.
11.6       With the management experience, construction equipment, and technology
gained during the construction of the Lubuge project, FCB has become a well-known
construction force in China for rockfIl dams and underground works. After the successful
completion of the Guangdong Pumped Storage Project (Stage 1), FCB will continue to
work for the Stage II extension (another 4 x 300 MW). The bureau was recently awarded
the contract for the lower reservoir and underground powerhouse for the Tianhuangping
Pumped Storage Project (a Bank loan approved on May 18, 1993).
12.  Project Relationship
12.1       The Bank-Borrower relationship for the Lubuge project was not only one
of mutual trust and cooperation, but also was highly complementary in all aspects of
project implementation. Constraints and bottlenecks were removed efficiently and
expeditiously without negative impacts on the Bank-Borrower relationship.
12.2       The Bank's relationship with GOC, other national agencies, and related
institutions was also cordial. The Bank had no problem gaining access to the high-level
government authorities to discuss policy and render professional advice.
13.  Consulting Services
13.1       Valuable contributions were made by SBC, SMEC, and AGN, either
individually or jointly, throughout the project implementation period. They not only
introduced the modern hydropower technology to China, but also optimized the design to
reduce project costs and expedite the construction schedule. Ten major contributions were
proposed by the three consulting groups and applied by KHIDI. At least Y 46 million was
saved, about 2.0 percent of the total project costs. The main cont-'butions to cost savings
are summarized as follows:
(a)   use of weathered materials for the dam core;



-          ~~~~- 11 -
(b) cancellation of the bottom grouting gallery and reduction of dam foundation
grouting from 52,000 m to 28,000 m;
(c)   modification of diversion tunnel lining;
(d)   adoption of a high wall for the vertical spillway by using anchoring rods
and wir mesh;
(e)   reduction of the thickness of the headrace tunnel lining and use of pin
concrete for 70 percent of the tunnel;
(1)   reduction of the span of the powerhouse from 24 m to 18 in; and
(g) use of bench-cut, prestressed, and grouted anchor rods as support for the
crane girdle without concrete columns.
13.2       Some of the technologies have now been widely used in China. In addition,
these consultants provided the Chinese staff with domestic and overseas training, as well
as instructions in their day-to-day work together on construction management, contract
management, quality control, cost control, and schedule control. With the experience and
knowledge gained during the Lubuge project, they developed into a backbone construction
group, a majority of whose staff are now working at the 3,300 MW Ertan Hydroelectric
Project (Loan 3387-CHA).
14.  Project Documentation and Data
14.1       The legal agreements for the Lubuge project were appropriate for achieving
the project objectives and adequately reflected the Bank's interest in satisfactory execution
of the projects. The Staff Appraisal Reports were comprehensive, well prepared, and
useful for the Bank, YPEPB and LPCMB during the project implementation. LPCMB
submitted quarterly progress reports, which served as a valuable tool for supervising and
monitoring the project. YPEPB submitted annual financial statements, an annual audit
report by independent auditors, and future investment programs, as covenanted in the
Project Agreement.
15.  Conclusions and Recommendations
15.1       The Lubuge project was well prepared and constructed. All the major
objectives of the project have been met. In spite of some project delays and two
extensions of the loan closing date, the project was highly successful.
15.2       GOC selected Lubuge as the first power project in China to utilize the Bank
loan and to test its "open door' policy and the Bank's ICB procurement procedures for the
headrace tunnel. The excellent performance of the Japanese contractor shocked the entire
hydroelectric construztion circle and the building industry. The Chinese realized that a



- 12-
compact orgnization, modern construction technology, and effective field mgement ar
the key factors of success. Local competitive bidding has been widely used since then to
replace the old system of assignment and negotiation. Attention has been paid all over
China to learn the experience of Lubuge in project manaement-the sG-caled Lubuge
Pounding.
15.3        Use of SBC and foreign consultants was well justified. They need to be
,involved at the early stage of project preparation. Starting with the Lubuge project,
availbility of TCC funds has greatly facilitated the establishment of a strong pipeline of
projects for Bank financing.
15.4        Training also has played an important role in changing the overall concept
about nagement, strenghenig managers' decision-making capabilities, and improvring
their project management sklls. However, financial management is still a weak link.
Training in this respect lags behind and needs to be strengthened.
15.5        As further measures of economic and system reforms are being undertaken
in China, YPEPB's future finances are subject to considerable uncertainties. With a view
to promoting financial management, YPEPB should place increased emphasis on long-term
financial planing and continue to update its rolling long-term financial plan from time to
time to reflect significant changes in the parameters affecing its finances.
15.6        To improve YPEPB's financial position, the tariff must be adjusted at a
faster pace so that it can meet all its financial obligations and generate sufficient cash to
fimance its expansion plan.
15.7        Efforts should be made to reduce the bed load into entenng the reservoir by
constructing debris dams upstream of reservoir and on the tributaries. Watershed
management should also be enforced. Reservoir sedimentation will not only reduce the
effective storage capacity, but will also produce erosion and maintenance problems for
hydraulic structures, particularly the nght bank sluice tunnel.
15.8        Monitoring of the left bank landslide area 1.5 km upstream of the dam
should be continued, particularly during the first flushing operation of the reservoir, which
is expected in 1993.
15.9        The power plant is short of certain spare parts and consumables. Measures
should be taken so that they can be procured and shipped expeditiously.
15.10       After completion of the downstream Tianshengqiao high dam scheme, now
under construction on the Nanpan river, sedimentation entering that reservoir would
eventually silt up as far as the tailwater zone of the Lubuge plant. Appropriate measures
should be taken in due time to minimize its effects on the normal operation of the Lubuge
plant.



- 13 -
PART I: PROJECT REVEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTVE
16. Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part HI 1/
16.1        The factual information of the project presented in the tables of Part 111,
prepared by the Borrower's related institutions including IPEPB, LPCMB and KHIDI,
were reiewed and cross-checked thoroughly with the Bank's mission in February 1993.
They are adequate and accurte.
17. Comments on the Analysis Contained in Part I
17.1        Most of the analyses made by the Bank are based on the factual information
n the tables of Part m. The comments and analyses made by the Bank are
comprehensive, fair, and objective.
17.2        The Bank's analysis of project implementation was compared primarily on
the basis of the staff appraisal report (SAR). It compared with the State plan, the results
are as follows:
State Plan               Actual           ComPizQn
Project Completion    End 1990                End 1991         Delayed by one
Date                                                     year due to late
delivery of the
4th unit.
Project Cost         1,661.07                 1,587.54         A savings of
(Y million)          (excluding transmission  (on the same     about 4.5%
lines and substations)   basis)
The project is therefore considered as reasonably on schedule (the fourth unit was not
originally a part of the project) and within cost.
17.3        The impact of the project to the hydro construction and building industnes
in China was indeed great. This was detailed with lessons learned in a report entitled
Lubuge and Lubuge Impounding," prepared jointly in 1992 by LPCMD, the Xinhua News
Agency, and the Editorial Office of Water Power" of MOE and MNR. This project
changed completely the local bidding process and the concept of construction management
system in China.
17.4        The direct benefits of the project consisted of 627 MW of pealing capacity
and 2,392 GWh of energy generation in 1992, representing 25.7 percent and 21.2 percent,
repectively, of the system total. It becomes the master plant of the system for frequency
1/ Pdmrily based on a project completion rport prpared by LPCMB (kpt in the Project File).



14-
control and voltage control and for optimized operation with other hydro reservoirs. Other
indirect benefits include:
(a)   promoting development of the project area through a new approach of the
resettlement program;
(b)   accelerating development of hydropower construction in China; and
(c)   training of staff.
18. Evaluation of Bank's Performace
18.1        From the experence gained under the Lubuge Project, we found that the
Bank's Project Cycle procedures in handling its projects are scientific and effective (a
detailed report suinmarizing our findings is being prepared by LPCMB). It played an
important role in making possible the successful achievements of the project. Appreciation
was due specfically to the Bank for providing assistance in cofinancing arrangements,
transferring of modern technologies through the use of foreign consultants, introduction of
ICB for civil works and equipment, institutional building in the areas of accounting,
auditing and financial projection, and staff training.
18.2        The visits made by the Bank's supervision missions were timely and fruitful,
particularly during the crucial periods of river diversion and commissioning of the first
umit. Valuable assistance was provided in expediting the urgently needed construction
equipment and in convincing the field supervisors of the equipment suppliers to bring about
a better cooperation during erection. Assistance was also provided by mission members
in procurement, effective utilization of the Ban loan, financial projection, tariff level
calculation and repayment capability, etc.
18.3        However, the procedures of ICB for both civil works and equipment were
too complicated and time-consuming. This accounted for the delays in the early stage of
project implementaidon. More lead time should be provided for project preparation and
the procurement procedures should be fturther simplified and improved.
19. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
19.1       We concurred fully with the obserations made by the Bank in Part I
regarding the Borrower's performance. YPEPB, as the owner, provided fill support to
the project. LPCMB, as an agency responsible for the overall management of the project,
played an effective and successful role in coordinating, supporting, and managing among
the designer (KHIDI), the contractors Craisei and FCB) and the consultants (SMEC and
AGN). With the assistance of SBC and foreign consultants, KHIDI did an excellent job
in optimizing the design of the project.
19.2       To express our apprecaton to SMEC and AGN, LPCMB prepared the
following two reports in 1989:



- 15 -
(a)   Friendly Assistance and Successful Cooperation on Utilization of Australian
Grant for Lubuge Project (1982-89); and
(b)   Friendship and Cooperation on Utilization of Norwegian Grant for Lubuge
Project (1984-88).
They summarized the successful utilization of the grant funds for project design,
supervision and construction management, and staff training.
19.3        Lessons learned from the project are:
(a)   The use of SBC and foreign consultants is highly justified. Their early
involvement for project preparation should be sought through the utilization
of the TCC fund.
0b)   LPCMB is the first of its kdnd established in China for the management of
iternational contracts for civil works. While the same practice has been
followed up for the Shuikou and Ertan Hydroelectric Projects, these
organizations should be maintained on a relatively long-term basis and their
staff should be utilized effectively from job to job, so that they can adapt
themselves for increasing numbers of international contracts in the future.
(c)   The relation between LPCMB and KHIDI should be rectified to establish a
better design management and construction supervision system.
(d)   Through its excellent performance of the Taisei Corporation for the water
conveyance system, the importance of construction management was fully
realized by the hydro construction industry in China. The construction
management system is being renovated and local competitive bidding is now
widely used in China.
(e)   To comply with the Bank's loan covenants, YPEPB decided, effective
January 1993, to increase its average tariff level by Y 3.78fkWh to meet its
debt service requirements.



- 16 -
PART Ell: STAIISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan title                   Purpose                   Approval               Status
Ln   2493-CHA    To construct a 500 kV transmis-    02/19/85          Completed   in   December
Second Paver     sion line from Xuzhou to Shanghai                    1988.
Project          and  5  associated  subatations
totaling 3,500 MVA in capacity.
to install tele-control and tele-
communications equipment for load
dispatchitg.  and  to  provide
training for 500 kV transmissioa
lices and substations.
Ln 2706-CA &    To construct a coal-fired thermal    05/29/85        Commercial operation for
Ln   2955-CHA    power project with 2 unita of    06/14/88           No. I is expected in the
Bellungang    600 NW and 2 single circuits of                        first  quarter  of  1993.
Thermal Pover    500 kV transmission lines and 2                     Closing date extended for
Projects I &    substations, and to carry out a                      one  year  to  06/30/93.
II               training program and a tariff                       No.  2 unit still under
study for East China power grid.                    implementation.   Closing
date 06130/95.
Ln 2707-CHA      To construct a 110 m high con-    05/29/86           Implementation under way.
Yantan Hydro-    crete gravity dam, a spillway, a                     Closing date 06/30/93 as
a I e c t r i c    powerhouse, and a shiplift; to                     scheduled.
Project          install 4 generating units of
275 NW each. 2 single circuits of
500 kV transmission lines and 3
associated substations; and to
carry out a training program.
Lu 2775-CHA &    To construct a 101 -m high, con-    01/06/87 &    Implementation under way.
Ln   3515-CHA    crete gravity dam, a spillvay, a    09/01/92        Closing dates 06/30/93 &
S h u i k o u    powerhouse and a navigation lock;                    12/31196.
Hydroelectric    to install 7 generating units of
Projects I &    200 MU each; to carry out a re-
II               settlement program in the reser-
voir, an action plan for tariff
reform, and a training program
for planning and financial man-
agement.
Ln 2852-CHA      To install 2 additional coal-    06/23/87           Two units coumissioned in
Wujing  Ther-    fired units of 300 MW each and                       1992.      Closing   date
mal    Power    associated 220 kV transmission                        06/30/93.
Project          lines and substations; to provide
on-line computer control and
automatic load dispatching cen-
ter; to carry out a masterplan
study for the- distribution net-
work in Shang-ai ant a trainIng
program.
Lu   3387-CMA   To construct a 240 m high arch    07/02/91            Implementation under way.
Ertan  Hydro-    dam with an underground power-                      Closing date 12/31/96.
e I e c t r i c    house, to install 6 550 MW gea-
Project -        erating  units  and  associated
equipment; to carry out an envi-
rormental management program,
studies of power pricing and res-
ervoir operation, and a training
program.



- 17-
1. Relate  Bank LeAn  (cont!id)
Loan title                 Purpose                  Approval             Status
Cr 2305 &       To construct . 56 a high gravity   10/31191      Implematation under way.
La 3412-CHA     dam and aa underground powerhouse                Closing date 12/31/97.
Daguaagba    with 4 x 60 W generating units;
Multipurpose    to erect a 36 km long double-
Project         circuit 220 kV transmission line
and to build canals to irrigate
12,700 ha of land.
Ln  3433-CaA    To install 2 300 MW generating   01114192        implementation under way.
Yanshi Ther-   uuits and 5 220 kV transaission                   Closing date 12/31/97.
Mal    Power   lines sad associated substations;
Project         to carry out a tariff study, a
tariff action plan, and a train-
-ing program for upgrading the
technical, financial and manage-
ment skills for HPEPB staff.
La  3462-CHA   To install 2 additional 600 MW   04/12192         Implemeutation under way.
Zouxian Ther-   generating units; to construct                   Closing date 06/30/99.
mal    Power    500 kV and 220 kV transmission
Project         liaes and substations; and to
carry out an air quality control
study, a power tariff study, an
action plan for tariff adjust-
meat, and a training program for
the technica!, financial, and
management staff of SPEPB.
2. Project Timetable
Items                       Date Planned             Date Revised          Actual Date
Identification/
preparation                   09/81                                          09/81
Preappraisal                    04/82                    04/82                 04/82
Appraisal                       08/82                    10/82                 10/82
Loan Negotiations               03/83                    03183                12/09/83
Loan Approval                   05/83                    10/83               02/21/84
Loan Signature                                                               03/12/84
Loan Effectiveness                                                           06/12/84
Loan Closing                  06/30/90                (i) 06/30/91           06130192
(ii) 06/30/92
Loan Completion                                                              07/01/92
COMMENTS:   About 13 months were needed betweeu' projeCt appraisal and loan
negotiations to resolve issues of using SBC and foreign consultants, cofinancing
arrangements, agreement on using ICB for civil works, and prequalification of bidders.



- 18-
3. Loan Disburaements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
($ million)
Bank Fiscal Year        Estimated           Actual           Actual as Z of
and Semester          cumulative       cumulative /a          estimate
1984     I
II               14.5               0.3                 2.1
1985     I                21.8             36.3                  2.7
II                5.0              12.4                 13.8
1986     I                50.8             65.3                 21.9
II               42.0              43.1                64.3
1987     I                79.3             94.3                 61.2
II               69.5              76.7                 78.7
1988     I               108.8            123.3                 81.9
II               97.0              75.3                 78.7
1989     I               130.6            137.9                106.0
II              109.9              81.2                 79.7
1990     I               141.6            145.4                113.9
II              119.1              80.4                 81.9
1991     I                                121.1                 83.3
II                                127.8                 87.9
1992     I                                140.4                 96.6
II                                141.41b               97.2
la $4,000,000 was canceled from the loan on 01/05/91.
1b Total disbursement under this loan was $141,400,000.00. The last disbursement of
$1,027,875.19 was made on 07/01/92.
Comments: The loan closing date was extended twice due to delays in procurement of
switching equipment, spare parts, testing instruments, additional engineering services, and
training in order to further improve the performance of the Yunnan power system.



- 19 -
4. Projct Implementation
-Appraisal       Revised target
Indicators                       estimate        set by state       Actual
(1) Project Completion
Date                        12/31/89            12/90         12f31191
(2)  Civil Works                06/30/89                           08191
(3) Generating Units:
lt             12131/88           03131189       12/27/88
2nd             06/30/89           11/30/89       09/19/89
3rd             12131/89           08/31190       05/21190
4th                                09/30/91       06/14/91
(4)  Transmission Lines
and Substations:
220kV Lubuge-Kurnming 1     12/31/88                          11/88
220kV Lubuge-Kunming II    12/31/88                           06/89 la
220kV Lubuge-Qujing         12/31/88                          01/91 La
110 kV Lubuge-Xinyi        12/31/88                           09/90 la
Kunming I substation
(Dongqiao)        -      12/31/88                           11/88 /a
Kuming II substation
(Dongqiao extension)     12/31/88                           12/89 /a
Qujing Substation           12/31/88                          01/91 La
(5) Training
a Rescheduled in accordance with the system's need to avoid early investment.



-20 -
5, Riedfsu}ts
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal                    Actual
Indicatore                              estimate             1991               1992
1. Lubuge Power Plant
Annual Generation CGW)               2,750.0           2,426.6             2,393.4
(long-term
average)
Capacity Factors                      52.3Z             46.12               45.52
Dependable Peaking Capaeity (NW)      307.3             450.0               450.0
Peak Generation (MW)                  600.0             638.0               627.0
Contribution to YPEPB System
Energy Generation                   27.82             24.22               21.2S
Peaklng Capacity                      20.22             28.42               25.72
Equipment Efficiency (2)                               let unit            4th unit
Turbine                            93.77/a            94.34               93.92
Generator                          98.45a             N.A.                98.51
2. Training
Engineering and Design
Construction Supervision
and Construction
Plant Operation and
Maintenance
Equipping of Technical
Schools
Total                         5.0 million       2.38 million      292 staff-months
n.a. = not available.
fa Contact specified.
COMMEArM:(l) 1992 was a very dry year, once in 100 year.
(2) The maximum output of 4 units all exceeded the rated capacity of 150 MW.



- 21 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate           Actual
Economic Rate of Return (IERR)                12.0%                 10.21
COMMENTS: (1) The lower IERR is due primarily to increases in tariffs that were
insufficient to cover the total operating expenses, including debt
services.
(2) No surplus benefit has been taken into consideration for its additional
contributions as a master peaking plant of the Yunnan power grid.
C. Financial Impact
YPEPB's actual financial statements for 1984-92 and the related appraisal
projections under Lubuge Hydroelectric Power Project are presented in Annex 3, Tables I
to 4. The following table summarizes the key operational results forecast in the SAR for
Lubuge Hydroelectric Power Project, compared with actuals.



YPEPB's Key Financial Indicators, 1984-92
(Million Yuan)
Year ended Decembor 31                               1984           1985           1986 187                    1988           1989          1990           1991           1992
bAR     T            cutuai l                *4  ACtua E   U.            5* 4 46  AC U                 A*tUSl sL u tu  3U       T
Enargy s*l.s (MO)                                4,S51  5,070  5,113  5,201  5,622  5,823  6,122  6,495  6,787  6,726  7,543  7,371  8,403  8,140  9,026  8,991                10,053
Averoge revenue (ffenjWh)                          6.5    6.7    7.0    6.8    t.0    6.9    7.0    7.2    7.5    7.8    7.5    8.9    7.5   10.9    8.0   11.5                  12.3
Break-*Ven average tariff (fan/kwh)                       6.8            6.S            7.9            7.9           9.1           11.7          13.0           13.7             14.5
Operating revenue                                  315    338    358    352    394    407    429    467    509    525    566    660    630    849    722  1,034                 1,232
Ope?rting expenses                                 212    232    231    274    263    327    295    396    336    466    382    546    438    686    473    S05                 1,025
Operattig incove                                   101    106    127      78    130      SO    134      71    173     S9    184    114    192    163    249    229               207
Iet incoae before tcom  tea & interest             104    105    127      77    130      75    134      65    173     57    184    109    192    151    249    215                194
Rate base                                        1,360  1.104  1,477  1,231  1,691  1,406  1,845  1i446  2,191  1.541  3,045  1.894  3.631  2,441  3,679  2,969                 3,408
Anzusl Cspital *xpenditure                         433            389    334    465    358    478    3SI    466    655    355    647    456  1,024    470    0SO                1,089
Construction work In progress                      858            956    *44  1,167    958  1,457  1,345  1,251  1,740    382  2,146    667  2.136    452  2,499                2,865
IiZa6 sassts additions                              52      48    291    311    225    144    167       66    652    396  1,225    465    171    760    1SS   661                 156
Reat  of return on bict. aesets (2)                7.6    9.3    6.6    6.3    7.7    5.3    7.3    4.5    7.9    3.7    6.0    S.8    5.3    6.2    6.8    7.2                   5.6
Operating rstio IS)                                 67     69      65     78      67     SO     69      85     66     89     67      83     68     S1      66     78               83
se1f.financing ratio (2)                                                28.7           28.1          28.9           18.6           17.9          18.8           20.3            21.7
Debt  rvice coverrge (times)                      30.0    8.5   35.0    9.5   11.8    1.4    7.0    1.2    5.7    0.8    3.2    0.5    2.2    0.6    1.9    0.7                   0.7
Debt as*   of debt plu  equtity                     31      9      38     44     45      48     49     56      52     60     54      66     57     66     58      69               73
Average collection p     6Ti   (days)               49      13     44     41      43     25     42     28      37     29     36      29     34.    34      32     29               21
Current ratio (tines)                              2.0    3.1    2.0    3.6    2.1    2.7    2.2    2.5    2.3    2.1    2.4    2.2    2.5    2.5    2.6    2.6                  4.2
Debt servico                                         5      10      S      8      16     59     29      74     43    118     87    275    143.   981    205    429                506
of whichs Principal                                3      9       3      S      9      39     17     51      28     76     so    164      64    230    121    277              356 
Interest                                 2      1      2       3      7     20      12     23     1s     41      37    112     79    152      84 11   2              170



- 23 -
6. Project Costs and Financing
A. Comparison of Estimated and Actua Project Costs la
Actual Prolect costa Ib
Appratlal*stiMtL.             Y milLion                  SiUlon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rl,I1,IIt         X sso       XsAr   -L.OCI;  Yor-in    Total  L3cM&   wreretn   To-=
Land aequ5sitiou & r.eattl.wnt                       17.2       6.6       62.98    -         62.96   19.24    -       19.24
Halo cvil worka                                     639.1     319.6      807.50  24s.66    1056.16  274.02   72.28   346.30
a4draulic equipset                                   18.7       9.3       22.85    -         22.85    6.53    -       79.58
ectrical 4 scbanical *quipnut                     160.1      90.1      250.59  120.76     371.35   59.55   33.10   92.65
TransGi9sion un.. & su14tation                      105.8      52.9      174.51  182.54     357.05   39.66   39.90    79.58
Consultant aerviC*.                                  54.4      27.2       31.57   31.86      65.43   10.16    9.72    19.88
Tr.inius                                             10.0       5.0        1.85    6.92       8.77    0.54    1.84     2.38
Bass Coot                                    1.025.3    512.7   1,353.85  590.74   1,944.59  40e.72  156.84   566.56
Physical coutingenci-s                               71.6      35.8        _       _          _
Pdce contingencies                                  1353.1     66. 
Total Protect Coat                   -       1.230.0    615.0    1,353.85  590.74   1.944.59  409.72  156.84   566.56
N oft incling IDC and other finanaW charges.
1b Each payment of foreign cost was conveted to yuan and US dollars based on the prevailing exchange rates at the date of payment.



- 24 -
B. Prject Financing
($ million equivalent)
AyRralsaL Planned             Actual
Sources/items financed                          Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
lBRD Loan
Civil works for water conductor system           -      35.4    35.4    -      35.7    35.7
Imported construction equipment                 -       24.9    24.9    -      29.7    29.7
Imported construction material                  -       26.8    26.8    -      20.3     20.3
Transmission lines & substation equipment        -      19.4    19.4    -      35.9    35.9
Electrical and mechanical equipment (other
than turbines, generators, and auxiliaries)  -        17.6    17.6    -      18.2     18.2
Training                                         -       1.0     1.0    -       0.2      0.2
Consultant services                              -       0.2     0.2    -       1.0      1.0
Front-end fee                                    -       0.4     0.4    -       0.4      0.4
Unallocated                                      -      19.7    19.7    -       -        -
Subtotal                                            145.4   145.4    _    141.4    141.4
Norwegian Government Grant
Construction equipment and materials for
underground powerhouse and tailrace
tunnel                                        -       11.6    11.6    -      10.8L&   10.8
Consultant services for above worke and
training
Australian Development Assistance Bureau
Consultant services for dam, water conductor
system and installation of generators         -        7.1     7.1    _       4.8/b   4.8
Training
Canadian International Development Agency
Consultant services for Special Board of
Consultants                                   -        0.2     0.2    -       0.2      0.2
Export/Supplier's Credit
Turbines, generators and auxiliaries le          -      40.9    40.9    -       -        -
Peovle's Construction Bank of China
Local costs
Foreign costs of turbines, generators and
auxiliaries                                   364.8    45.0   409.8  409.3    -        409.3
Technical Cooperation Credit
Consultant services for Special Board of
Consultants                                    -       -       -       -      0.1      0.1
Total                                      364.8   250.2   615.0  409.3  157.3   566.6
14   NKr 88.0 milliol.
/b   $A 6.8 million.
/c   Turbines, generators, and auxiaies were supplied by a consortium of Kvaener of Norway and
Siemens of Germany under a contract with the China National Technical Import Corporation (CNTIC).
The forein cost component was paid by CNTIC to the suppliers out of GOC's foreign exchange
reserves.



- 25 -
7. Status of Coven
Covenant                       Subject                                       Status
Loan Agreement Dated March 12, 1984:
3.01 (b)     Subsidiary Loan Agreement with YPEPB                         Complied with.
Project Agreement Dated March 12. 1984:
2.01 (b)     Maintain LPCMB with appropriate stafflg and                 Complied with.
authority.
2.02         Employ Consultants.                                          Complied vith.
2.08         Training Program.                                            Complied vith.
3.04 (b)     Inspection  of  the  Dam  and  Appurtenant                   Complied with.
Structures.
4.02         Annual Audit by Independent Auditors.                        Complied with.
4.03 (a)     Gross revenue from all sources not less than        YPEPB met 1002 of the Bauk loan
YPEPB's total operating expenses.                  payments, but made only partial
payment of local loans.
4.04         Internal cash generation at least exceeds the              Not complied with.
debt service requirement.
4.05         Future investment programs.                                  Complied with.



-26 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff-weeks)
1101  ns82  1183  1184  1Y85  1Y86  Y$87  P8"  1189  1Y90  1Y91  119  113      oted
Preparatio         1.7  70.7  9.3                                                         -      81.7
Appra.               -        54.9    _         _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _      54.3
&otiatt.            - _       19.S  55.8    -    -                 -                             75.3
Lino .pproval        -   4.2  7.7  8.4      -    _    _            -    _    -    -    -         20.)
Suwzrvi"i<w   -    _-    -   8.9  27.2  10.3  9.1  3.7  .4  9.0  10.8  2.2  1.0  91.6
Otbsr   -    -    -   2.2  0.5  0.1  0.2   -        -    -    -    -         3.1
TotWl           .7  74 9  91.3  75   27 S10.5  9.   3 .7  9.4  9.0  10.8   .2  1.0           36.
Not: FY93 data as of Deceiber 31, 1992.
B. Missions
Ia l
Stage of         Month/   No. of    Days in  Specialization    Performance            Types of
project cycle         year    persons    field    represented         rating status      problems
Preappraisal      04105J82       3        30           a,c
Appraisal          10/11182      5        35          s,c,d
Supervision I    08-09184        2        31            a                1
Supervision II   10-12185        2         8           a,c               1
Supervision III  08-09186        2         9           s,c               1
Supervision IV      06/87        1         7            a                1
Supervision V       09/88        2         6           a,C               I
Supervision VI      10189        2         8           a,c               I
Supervision VII    10/90         2         7           a,c              2          Not complied with
loan covenants.
Completion        02103/93       3        22           a,c
/a   a = Engineer, b = Economist; c = Financial Analyst; d = Other.
Lb   I = Problem-free or minor problems; 2   Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.



-27_                                         ANNEX1
CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Overseas Training
Source of                                                                      Number of    Staff-
Financing                      Subjects of Training              Location       Groups       Months
Australian Grant        Engineering and Design                 Australia           14           123
Construction Management               Thailand
Modern Construction Technology        Malaysia
Plant Operation and Maintenance
Norwegian Grant         Engineering and Design                 Norway               7           57
Construction Management               India
Construction Technology for
Underground Works
IBRD                    Financial Management                   USA                  5           24
Network Management                    Australia
Computer Application                  Norway
Hydrological Forecasting              Japan
Taisei Corporation,   Construction Management                  Japan                3           30
Japan                 Construction Technology
Accounting
Equipment Suppliers   Equipment Manufacturing and              Germany              7           58
Inspection                          Norway
Operation and Maintenance             Japan
Computer Application                  Sweden
Switzerland
Total                                                                        36           292



CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Reevaluation
Capital costs                   Distri-                   Annual                       IC                              Constant prlce
Gener-   Trans-       0&M        butioti &       Total      gener-    Annual        Revenue    Total/a         Net       ad1ustment factor
Year        ation    mission    costs    other costs    costja    ation             sales/b    per k%h    revenue    benefit    Local           Foreign
-------------- !-- (Y million) ---------------               --   (GWh) -----         (Y)       -- (Y million) ---
1984        522.2       -          -             -           522.2           -           -       -              -        -522.2      1.728        1.192
1985        230.3       -          -             -           230.3           -           -       -              -        -230.3      1.588        1.152
1986        249.9       9.4        _             _           259.3           _           _       _              -        -259.3      1.498        1.130
1987        369.7      25.2                      -           394.9           -           -       -              -        -393.9      1.369        1.090
1988        264.2      71.1        -             -           335.3           -           -       -              -        -335.3      1.178        1.048
1989        134.2      52.9       10.0           5.2         202.3      1,238        1,151       0.099       113.9        -88.4      1.000        1.000
1990        165.6      65.9       13.0           9.0         253.5      2,106        1,958       0.114       218.7        -34.8      0.980        0.949
1991         49.8      88.8       16.0          11.2         165.8      2,427        2,257       0.125       268.6        102.8      0.952        0.910
1992         47.2      42.0       19.5          15.5         124.2      2,393        2,226       0.133       258.0        133.8      0.872        0.873
1993          -         -         19.5          17.9          37.4      2,750        2,558       0.161       359.1        321.7      0.872        0.873
1994-2041     -         -         19.5          17.9          37.4      2,750        2,558       0.161       359.1        321.7      0.872        0.873
IERR - 10.2f
la All costs and revenues were converted to 1989 constant prices by applying the adjustment factors based on price indexes for local and foreign costs.
/b A total loss of? percent was used, including station use and T&D losses (see Annex 6).
Le Revenue per kWh was based on YPEPB's curent average tariffs, adding Y 0.01 per kWh surcharge for suirplus benefits.



CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Income Statements, 1984-92
(Yuan Million)
u984^ciii        *Sg  95ct4 WRetuA   bAA   cu A  U*1       -            IICU~ I    'ba              AtuaL   _lsg  Actual   crui                     l~2 U
Sale. incrteas  (t)                7.5     14.0       3.4       2.6     10.0      12.0      8.9      11.S     10.9       3.6     11.1       9.6     11.4      10.4       7.4      9.5       -      tl.
Energy *elo. (GWb)               4.851    5,070    5 113    5.1 I      S622    523    6,122    6,495    6.787    6.726    7.541    7.371    1.403    8 140    9,026    8991                  -   10 053
Aversgo rcveau. (lfemlih)          6.5      6.7       7. -      6.6      7.0       6.9      7.0       7.2      7.5       7.8      7.3       8.9      7.5      10.4      4.0      1l.5        _     12.3
OP*.rtint Revenue                315.0    338.0    358.0    351 6    394.0    407.0    429.0    467.4    507.0    524.5    566.0    660.0           800    849.0    722.0  1.034.2         1_2)1.5
Operating Cos                   54.0     57.7      59.0     61.8      67.0      77.8     80.0    100.a      95.0    118.6      96.0    145.8      95.0    163.8    102.0    154.8         -    261.1
=d1aletraetloa                   3.        .         82    3 920 4.5   50       107.5     5.0 21.7           80    23.6        6.0      26.7      60 8     300       a.         .                5
Saets  tle.                     50.      589        7.      92.8      65.0    106.5      66.0    120.)      81.0    123.9      90.0    141.7    100,0    1369.1    1 1 .0:   20'0.2             2 134.8
Dcpr clatson                    54.0     45.6      55.0     48.0      63.0      54.6     71.0      68.0     76.0      80.0     94.8      95.2    128.0    121.2    133.0    171.4               201.8
Otcer capon.c                   51.0     64.8      57.0     64.4      65.0      71.0     71.0      85.5     79.0    119.0      96.0   134.8    109.0    202.4    116.0    242.7           *    265.2
of  bhlche Purchoecd por         .     12.6         -      4.2         .       8.4        .       7.8        .      35.8        .      36.8        .      5.                 51.3       .      26.8
0peration             _     50.6         -      33.5        .      36.4         -     48.6        -      30.-               54.2               68.6         -     82.7             102.8
Malgftrenanc          .      21.6        -      22.7         -     26.2         .     28.0         -     31.2         -     37.3         _     66.3         -     97.6        _    115.9
Othor        .             -                            - .                            1.1         -      1.2         -      6.5         _      8.6         -     11.1        -     19.7
Totcl Operating Costs       212.0    232.2    231.0    273.5    263.0    327.2    295.0    396.3    336.0    465.1    382.0    546.2           38.5                        804.7          1.024
Operftint   tncez           103.0    1053.     127.0     78.0    130.0       80.0    134.0      71.0    173.0      59.2    184.0    113.8  1j920    162.6    249.0    229.4            -
Ilonopeting lnca"                    -     -3.9         -       .0.8       -      _4.S         -     -5.7         -     -2.3         .     .4.6         *    -11.8         -    -14.5        -     17.4
tat-rcct C  rg.6d to Oeratlon    2.0        1. 2.3                                                                                  0      11 5     79.0    151.7      84.0    152.0        -    169.9
Not Income Bef ore
lacOz YA x-- -           102.0    102.9    125.0       73.9    123.0      55.5    122.0      42.2    158.0      15.6    17.0       .2.3    115.0       0.9    165.0      62.9              19.6
Averag  Net ?lzed Lsecte
cl N;tor)c         t        1,360.0  1,103.6  1,477.0  1,230.6  1,691.0  1,405.9  1,845.0  1,446.0  2,191.0  1.540.6  3,045.0  1,' '.0  3,641.0  2.441.0  3,679.0  2,96S3                 -  3,40J.6
Rate of 14turn on Nietoric
Assets (2)                       7.6      9.4       6.6      6.3       7.7       5.3      7.3       4.5      7.9       3.7      6.0       5.8      5.3       6.2      6.6       7.2       -       5.6
Operstilatlo (t                     67       69        65        78       6?        80       69        85       66        89       67        83       70        41       66        78       _        83



CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC DOWER PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Balance Sheets, 1984-92
(Yuan Million)
Mmoont -1moot 0            31984                 936                  1984 6   4         494                  4199253
_ ISS4   Xt85        1986                 19S7           _    ~~~~~~1988   _1989                        1990                *901                  99
33  38    36        43        40         46  ~~~                       46         p         33       101        366      13          64       360        *        6
Invantorie.                       30        33         31        36        32          g        33                  3                    3         69        36         81        38        88        -
lc*swat.l,e                       42         12        43        40         46        28        49        36         52        42        56         53        S9       7'         63         11        -        72
Total Current A.cts             1l05       *2        110       123        IIS       1Jj       126       148        134       166       144       223       13        413        14-        3                 32
!1 riW rr. rvice                 1,976     1,621    2,267       1,929    2,522    2,0t6        2,709     2,123    3,361    2.511    4.,06         2,965    4,73?    3,732    4.94a    4.360              .    6.032
ML..) Actumulse.d
D preciation                   617       522       672        367       713       617        806       661       862        73        976       851    l,o04        966    1.237       1.132        -    1.321
not Plant in SarvIlc          1I.39     1  O                                                                      495    1.362  .77  449  1.903    1.4  2.479  1.753    3.10    2.114    3,653    2765  1705    38 4221
Conmumction Worlk la                                                                                                          7
progress                       858         -       S6         644    1,16?        958      1,457     1,343     1.251     1,740        382    2,146        667    2.136         952    2.699               2.,65
Total livAd Assete            2,217  1,100    2.531    2,206    2.934            2.407       .                                          928 79.7                                            6
Special 1u.d Assets                   0        47         .        47          .        79          -        93         -       117          *       148         ,        62          .        87        -        96
TOMAL ASSm                    2  22     1.229    2.661    2375  3   72    2.605    3.486    3.028    3.864    3.775    4136                   4632    4.473    3.377    4. 22   6d544               _    8.196
LIABtLITICS
Current Oiabiliti*a                   ,         .         .         52         .        54          .        55         -        57          -        59         -        60          -        62        _        U
acccus~~~~aray.o&a      - ~~~~   20          -         4         0         133                 44          -        4          *         2          -       127                 IV1,       -       10
31.,.to0o oaent                             207                  103                 10                  4Is                  17                   14                  36                   14        .        20
ort-S  roDat                       -          .         .         -          _         _                                                             4                   5                    42
Toty.l Current LiabLlitIte       52        27         54        34        55         42        57        5S         59        78        60        99        62        168        64       203                 125
690        51       962        943    1,329      1,067      1,668        36    1,96         639    2,161         946      .48      142    2.730    1" S  .00
Cc~~~~uction I.O.U  -  -     -          -         -          -         -       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  a,1s      0     1,603         0     1,60           0     1.59,71      -    2.052
ZIlOLoan      -                    -        70         -       ~~~~        ~ ~~~~~              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~140    8   370a      399     -        63          -        79        -       800
Total          gme. 
b:&Dliltl  690  31  682     1 013$ 7 32            2       1 668    1. S        L967    2 172    2.181        2,930    2          3.410      2.750    4.287               5.838
in s s&ltsl                  2-         33         -        33          -        40                   47                  49          -        52         .        48          .        52        .        66
3                                                     1~~~~~J                                 Is351 4   Ss        70         33        4     
Goearuant dFua                 1,351     1,04t    1,590       lot10     1,644      1.1S$    1.71       1,i10    1,785       1,277     1,842     1,262    1,671       1,421     1,S74    1.593               1,714
kpc al oda                     -        70                  1775                M 1                    s13               353          *         I2                261                   4                 449
Total  muitty                 1.0    I.151        1.625      1.328     1,687     1348       1,762     1392      1,8 3      I.324     3.893     1.582     1.026     3.805      2.027    240534              2.214
3oIuILITIIIS  6            2,322      1.229    2.461      2.375          l    2.j605    3.4e7    3028    3.864    3 775    4.136    4.651    4473    5-"7                  4 821    644                    96
LoftT* m Debt n4s t of Debt 1
asltath    o   of*    D 2t 307  4 4     3e 2       4.3      446 ?       4.3      49:3 27 2     5      52 :4     3S5       54'2      6528       37 0      66:0      5e.0      69                  73"2
(tie..)              2                      02.1                                                                                                8.  325     J       "1        16
-~~~~~~~



CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Funds Flow Statements, 1984-92
(Yuan Million)
1 84                    S                1986     1918U.l                                      1989               3990               9919wz  ".          2 W! SW_
To    oftrst14:0 .0             4 8    12l:0     77.     130.0      Is    134~        6    3 130 :9              9  0    to  2~   j92:O    1639:     2::    274# 
No   tou"wo run4.0                 -        -    22.9         -       6          -    28.3               31.61.6-                       -    12.          -     98*             115.9
Itcetribualgo U*r-v                         -       -   -           13.0        -     14.7        -     16.9         -    21.8         -     19.6        -     13.3             35.0
Lr    u I aprv        *            32.0         -      4.1               0.3             096.7         -    132.5        -   28s.7              284.8        -    380.             426.9
?otal Int.tnul Fund.       158.0   181.8   182.0    182.8   1930    2$2.0   205.0    273,8    249.0   318.9    278.50330 5   320.0   644.1                   2.0   879.1             9.
Iorrmuinaa
'7ri9      I83 Luau             61.0         -     91.0     42.0      1.0a    78.0    81.0    132.0    61.0    90.0         31.0     29.6     11.0     25.9        -    168.1        -        -"
Other Lo.na.rojcat Related  170.0               I lO2.0    101 .       148  1       202.0    20.4    180.0    131.9    68.0    288.4        19.0   345.6       4.0 98  n  5
Otber LoonAcaNopraj. Rslat*d  92.0         -    102.0    192.7    128.0   140.8      71.0   221.9    86.0   329,2    163.0   289.3    338.0   418.2   362.0   607.3                   1,089.4
Total Borrwinaa            323.0      0o.   296.0    5_0.o   357.0   337.9    354.0   374.3   327 0    3S1.3    264 0    607.5   168.0    8e0              366 0    871 1           1.069.4
o at atr  Crtb                  6. 8               63.0      4.S     70e      21.0       8.       4 7     73      t0           1 76.0  3        8                00    -12.8
ILlaaraL Gan                22.00                1 20      -      90         -       6.0      1.3      50       4.3      4.2     10.     -20 
Total Sources of Fund.    368.0    181.8    533.0 537.6    628.0    610.9    643.0   654.S   616.0   974.2    618.0  ).197.9  .776.0  1.68.3                     1.715.4          2.056.5
C81a~L  nditut.e
CVO      -.Jo]F              240.0    111.4    197.0   151 3   230.0    241.0    279.00               221.0   261.1    60.0    322.2         6A    603.1       4.0   242.1        -   1
Othe Ccaatmtiictn            I13.0              364.0    18.     197.0    1)6.9    1490    147.51   160.0   394.3    241.0    321.1   429.0    419,.2   442.0    638.4             *1089.4
14ntefe   Dartng Couatruttcn     -     16029.3                        -     38.0        -     30.0        -    65.0          -      5.0        -    *1.0         -     24.0.               -
! 9j1uita.               6 33.0   111.4    390.0   334.0   465.0    358.8    478.0   380.6   446.0   633.4    356.0   647-3    456.0  1.026,3   4Yo.0   880.5                    1.08#.4
ft*rat3onalRemu1re,.te
p>rOIE27DIFIF5TKt3 p1tal       4.0    -6.0       3.0     20.8       7.0      9.1   , 6.0    .16.7       8.0    -9.s       9.0       0.7      7.0   .28.2      10.0    38.8        -    54.7
"aaDto                         -      3.0                0.9        -     17.e        -     14.0        -      24.1        -     31.8        -    86.3               37.6              9.2
Interest Chgd to oparatona   22          .01 2.             3       7                  .        13     1 0      431       37.0    111.5     79.0 18 1.97    84.0    352.70              169.9
Loen Repayment                 3.0               S .0      4.7      9.0     39.0:0    117.0  0, 1 :31    28.0    76.3    30.0    163.9    64.0   229.7    321.0   377.2           -    15.6
rpaut:Go,rmn4t                   -        -         -    34.0         -     $5.0        -    63.0         -      71.0        -     16.0              94.0             1 328.0     *    133.0
Sr.4oa tax                  70.0 ;   39 4     99.0   '47.83    77.0    46.4        60.0     37.8    84.0       35.5     72.0     42.6    41.0      34       10.0  329.                395.
Special lunde  zpendltur..              6.0         -    119.3        -    120.0        -    141.8        -     146.5        -    112.4        -    103.1             2 06.6           354.0
133.0    63.4    16.    193.8    163.0   251.9    166.0 1 30 3            09.0    314. 2    262.0    322.9   319.0   890.6   338.0    729.7               962.9
V W                      S6icat3  14.9   352.0   329 8    628.0    610.7    644.0    61           6550    969.6    6IS.0  1.70.2    77.   1.514.9   828.0  3l610.2            Z 2052.3
Incloac Lu CaahSe C"            3.0      7,0      3.s 0     7.8      4.0      02 1    4.0    122        4.0      46       5.0      27.7      5.0   I3S.4       8.0    105 2              4.2
=1nw 01. b.%t $.rwieO CM90TO&O    20.0    8.3I    33.:0      .:3,    1'1.8     3.:4     70         .2     5.       0.8       3.       0.3      2.2      0.6      1.90     9.7              0. 7



CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
YPEPB's Key Financial Indicators, 1984-92
(Yuan Million)
1964        g       zCzz | r1965           3916              1                         9866                3969            S     9 -lea..             1991                 3992
ImV                       *           '5Wbi  4,651        5,113    5.620)       S.22       5,62)    6, 22       6,495      6.787      6.724     7,545      7.371      a.401                9.026      6j991 10 05
(feuIWAb)                  -       ~~~~         ~ ~~~~6.6    6.6               7.9          -       7.9          -.        .1          *      11.1                 13.0           -       3.7         -       4.5
Operattns tweug                        315        236        558        352        554       407        429        467       509        52S        566       669        630        6'49       722     3.014         ,       1,232
Op.ratlna capon...           ~~~212     212        231        274       263        927        2915       396       336        446        362        546       436        666        475       60M               1.021
_p4:et tnjnOMe                         l0a        106        It?         76         3    0              14          71        17         59        164        11        19         16         249       229         -       207
endee_ I   betfo  logo    t*x         104        103        127        77        130         75        134        65        173         S7        164       109        192        151       240        2135                1 90
ltate t..                            1,60       1 1,104   1,477      1.231      1,691      1,406      1,645     1,446      2,191      1.541    3.045       1 ,94      3,631     2441       S.679      2.69          *       406
A=a       a1t4 e5                      433                   S6         334       46S        356        476        ja1       466        655        355         47       46 8       034        470        980              I,8
Ccoatnct5ca ot :U        rogr...       656           -        56        644     3.167        956      1,457      3,345     3.251      1,740        362     2.146        667    2.136          952     2,699         -     2,665
VLn.4 aceeto  eddit                     52         46        291       311        225        144        367         66       652        396      1.223       465        11         760        16        663         -       1
lkAt. of retU%g a bletoric
seact. (2)                           7.6       9.3        6.6        6.1        7.7        3.3        7.3       4.3        7.9        3.7       6.0        5.6        5.        62         4.6         .                   .
0peratioa rto  (2                        7         69        65         76         67         so         69        a5         66         St        67        6as         6         61         647I                            3
D61.1off-finom  (2)      ~~-                                           283           *      26.            -      16.6          -      17.9                                       203                  1.7
Dst  f                    t        3           9        3          4                     4           9                              $0a4                 66                   66         "I56i
A"*ag   MolcIu           rTdiyo)  419              IS         44         41         43        25         42         2          37        29         16         29        34         34         32        29         *21
CMMr= tt                                  0 a.tio (6..)  2.0  31  2.0   3.6       2.1        2. 7       2.2        2.2        23        2.1        2.4       2.2        2.5        2.5        2.6       2.6                 4.2
Oebt acreS..                   5 ~ ~~~              ~     ~ ~ 10  S  6   14         St         29        74         43        Its        67        27         j41       s6t        205        429                 S"50
1         9trtsrtt  2     2     5                   St          97        51        2s        -76         50        164         4        230        21 s      277                 3136
of wbieba ftInoIpei          ~ ~2       1          2         3           7        20         12        23         i5         Al         37       112         79        1$2        6         312         ..       10
Zutereet~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (LOAN 2382-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YPEPB's Operation Performance, 1984-92
capacilY            Generation         Energy       Peak      T&D                 Statlon use                 Casacltv factor
Tota!     I'ydro     Total      Hydro      sales        load     losses      overall      Thermal     Hydra      Thermal      Hydra
ld3_(qWh)    - .-..-. (GWh)                      (MW)       (S)        -------  (2) -------                ......__ ____l) ------  W
1984        1,169        679      5,410      2,660       5,070        888      7.07         6.2        11.7         0.25       59.1       44.7
1985        1,269        679      5,660      3,010       5,201        961      7.39         5.7        12.0         0.22       53.2       50.6
1986        1,369        679      6,360      3,320       5,823      1,004      5.94         5.8        11.9         0.20       50.3       55.8
1987        1,519        7?9       ;,170     3,180       6,495      1,158      5.90         6.5        11.5         0.25       57.6       49.8
1988        1,769        B79      7,530      2,610       6,726     1,226       5.73         7.7        11.6         0.38       63.1       33.9
1989        1,919      1,029      8,300      3,300       7,371      1,342      6.21         7.2        11.7         0.48       64.1       36.6
1990        2,169      1,179      9,080      4,550       8,140     1,520       7.04         6.0        11.7         0.41       52.2       44.1
1991        2,507      1,329     10,010      5,850       8,991      1,584      7.01         4.7        11.0         0.18       40.4       50.2
1992        2,607      1,329     11,280      5,510      10,053      1,749      6.71         5.5        10.3         0,19       51.5       47.3
Source: YPEPB.



