Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3710-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $145.4 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
January 23, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 1983)
Currency Unit    Yuan (Y)
$1.00        Y2.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kW = Kilowatt
MW = Megawatt (1,000 kW)
kWh = Kilowatt hour (860.42 kcals)
GWh = Gigawatt hour (million kWh)
kV = Kilovolt
km = Kilometer
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB    -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
AGN     -   Advisory Group of Norway
FCB     -   Fourteenth Construction Bureau
KHIDI   -   Kunming Hydroelectric Investigation and
Design Institute
LPCMB   -   Lubuge Project Construction Management Bureau
MOF     -   Ministry of Finance
MWREP   -   Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
PCBC    -   People's Construction Bank of China
SBC     -   Special Board of Consultants
SMEC    -   Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
SPC     -   State Planning Commission
YPEPB   -   Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:       Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau (YPEPB)
Amount:            $145.4 million, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest rate
Relending Terms:  The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the Government
to YPEPB, with a 20 year term, including 5 years of grace,
at 8% p.a. interest.
Project
Description:    The project will provide additional generating capacity
and energy to Yunnan power grid; introduce modern tech-
nology in construction of dams, tunnels and underground
powerhouses; provide technical assistance in international
competitive bidding (ICB) for civil works; address finan-
cial and auditing issues; introduce financial forecasting;
promote cofinancing; and provide staff training. The
project comprises construction of a rockfill dam, spillway
system, intake structure, headrace tunnel, surge shaft,
underground powerhouse, and tailrace tunnel; installation
of three 150 MW generating units and provisions for a
fourth unit; construction of 220 kV transmission lines
with associated substations; consultant services; and a
training program. Risks are normal for a major
hydroelectric project of this type. A Special Board of
Consultants (SBC) has been appointed to give advice on
design and technical problems during construction.
Cofinancing (grant aid) has been secured from Norway
($11.6 million), Australia ($7.1 million), Canada ($0.2
million), and UNDP ($0.03 million). Export credits of
about $41 million are also expected to be utilized.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local Foreign Total
Estimated Costs:                                            ---- ($ million) ---
Main civil works                         239.7    79.9  319.6
Hydraulic equipment                        8.1      1.2    9.3
Electrical & mechanical equipment         43.7    46.4   90.1
Transmission lines and substations        35.3    17.6   52.9
Land acquisition, compensation &
resettlement                             8.6     -       8.6
Consultant services                       17.1    10.1   27.2
Training                                   2.0      3.0    5.0
Base Cost (mid-1983 prices)          354.5   158.2  512.7
Physical contingencies                    24.2    11.6   35.8
Price contingencies                       31.3    35.2   66.5
Total Project Cost /a                410.0   205.0  615.0
Interest during construction              51.4    44.8   96.2
Front-end fee on Bank loan                 -       0.4    0.4
Charge on use of foreign capital         100.1     -    100.1
Total Financing Required             561.5   250.2  811.7
Local  Foreign Total
Financing Plan:                                              ----($ million) ---
IBRD loan                                  -     145.4  145.4
Norwegian Government grant                 -      11.6   11.6
Australian Government grant                -       7.1    7.1
Canadian Government grant                  -       0.2    0.2
Export/suppliers' credits                  -      40.9   40.9
Local bank loans                         561.5    45.0  606.5
Total                              561.5   250.2  811.7
Estimated             Bank FY   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Disbursements:                 ----------------- ($ million) ----------------
Annual        14.5   21.8   29.0   29.0   29.0   14.6    7.5
Cumulative   14.5   36.3   65.3   94.3  123.3  137.9  145.4
Economic Rate of Return: 12%
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 4334-CHA, dated January 23, 1984.
/a Includes identifiable taxes and duties totalling about $44 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance the Lubuge Hydroelectric
Project. The loan, for $145.4 million, would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at standard variable interest rate. The
proceeds of the loan would be onlent to the Yunnan Provincial Electric Power
Bureau (YPEPB) with a 20 year term, including 5 years of grace, at 8% p.a.
interest. YPEPB would bear the foreign exchange risk. Cofinancing has been
secured, or agreed in principle, from several sources: a $26,000 grant
already obtained from UNDP; a $1.3 million grant already secured from the
Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) and a further Australian
grant of $5.8 million agreed in principle; and grants committed by the
Norwegian Government ($11.6 million) and the Canadian Government ($0.2 mil-
lion). Export credits of about $41 million are also expected to become
available.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:
Recent Economic Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Another economic
mission is now in the field. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex
1.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of communes in rural
areas and the extension of public ownership to cover almost all of the
modern sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the
major objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Despite sharp
oscillations in policy and political upheavals like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12% p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far
greater variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries.
Per capita GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at
2.5-3.0% p.a. in 1957-81, significantly above the average for other low-
income developing countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and
health the Chinese population is better off than its counterparts in other
low-income developing countries.



- 2 -
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita
of only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20% of the population
with unacceptably low incomes. The economy is also inefficient: past
growth has come mainly from massive mobilization of resources. For a
country that faces significant domestic resource constraints, inefficiency
is a particularly serious problem.
5.        To address these problems and ensure rapid growth and improvements
in living standards, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-
ment in 1979. Economic reform, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves: (a) improving the quality of central planning and
policy coordination; (b) devolving more decision-making authority to lower
level units; (c) establishing more direct links between incomes and the
performance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on market
mechanisms and economic instruments and less on administrative directives to
influence economic activity. Structural adjustment, aimed at speeding
improvements in living standards, has involved readjusting the relative
shares of consumption and investment in national income, some major sectoral
and subsectoral readjustments, and greater emphasis on foreign trade. In
1981, problems with inflation and large budgetary and current account defi-
cits resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the highest
priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly with
adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government down to rural households. A major govern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the State
Council from 98 to 52. Reorganization within ministries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is now under way. Economic
management has been decentralized: provincial and local authorities have been
given more autonomy in investment decision making and use of credit to finance
investment has increased; provincial and local governments have been granted
greater budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage directly in foreign trade.
7.        Reforms have been most far-reaching in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of the "production responsibility system" has given
small groups and households more autonomy in production and investment
decisions and linked incomes directly with output. By the end of 1982, 92%
of production teams in China had implemented such a system; 78% had imple-
mented a household responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of
farm land and major equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted
out to individual households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond
their obligations to the state and to the collective (which account for about
one third of production). The number and types of rural markets have also
increased.



-3-
8.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic changes have occurred. Reforms in the management
of state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit
retention schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices. There
have also been experimental changes in the organization of state enterprises,
a greater variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjust-
ment of relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in pro-
duction decisions. The scope for cooperative and individual economic
activities has also been enlarged.
9.        Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have
already had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer
to have a significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with
economic reform that the Government will need to address. In rural areas,
there is a potential conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity
in income distribution, continued provision of basic services, and mobiliza-
tion of labor. In the state enterprise sector, many units are still inclined
to overinvest and overproduce, since substantial decentralization of decision
making and control over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use is being made of the market, but
information and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.       During the past four years, the Government has followed a strategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative measures that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well
as to economic growth. The various measures have included: major increases
in agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices;
rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate
for foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports
and economize on imports.
11.       These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output
at constant prices grew by 7.3% per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture
by 7.5% and industry by 7.2% (heavy industry by 3.4% and light industry by
11.8%). Net material product (NMP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. during the same period. Net investment has stagnated in real
terms, while material consumption grew by over 9% p.a. between 1978 and 1982.
The share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% in 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.



- 4 -
12.       Structural adjustment and rapid overall economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have
led to rapid increases in per capita incomes. In urban areas, real per
capita incomes increased by 4.8% p.a. between 1978 and 1982; in rural areas
the real increase in per capita incomes was about 12% p.a. While more
prosperous areas and households may have benefitted the most and income
differentials at a local level may have increased, many poor areas and
households have also enjoyed substantial income improvements.
13.       The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much of
this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program. But achieving such a cutback has proved difficult.
Decentralization of investment decision making has permitted a rapid growth
in investment financed from retained earnings or local resources. As a
result, most of the cutbacks in investment have been in large centrally
financed projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and trans-
portation were affected), though some of these were revived in 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helped restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.4% in 1981
and 2% in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
financing items) from 7% of NMP in 1979 and 5% in 1980 to less than 2% in
1981 and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stability was achieved mainly by
sharp cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) rose dramatically from about 7% of total expenditures in 1978
to 26% in 1982, when they were 9% of NMP.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent years;
the current account deficit of $3.4 billion in 1980 was converted into a
$5.6 billion surplus in 1982 and an estimated $4.6 billion surplus in 1983,
an improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of merchandise
exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during 1978-82,
mainly because of rapid growth in manufactured exports.  The growth rate has
been declining steadily, however. Meanwhile the volume of imports declined
in both 1981 and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of contract cancel-
lations and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment deliveries and to
problems in obtaining high technology goods. A substantial increase in
imports is expected in 1984 and 1985 as China expands its investment program
and imports more machinery and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and in 1982 took advantage
of the unexpectedly strong current account position to repay commercial bank
and other loans. In 1981 China's debt service ratio was 7.8%, and in 1982
10.0%, due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 1981 total
reserves (excluding gold) were $5 billion; by the end of 1982 they had
increased to over $11 billion (equivalent to about seven months of 1982
imports).



-5-
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be helped considerably by continuation of a
relatively low population growth rate; by opportunities to make greater and
more efficient use of foreign technology and capital; and by the potential
for improving efficiency through economic reform. Rapid and equitable econ-
omic development is constrained by a number of factors, however. There are
serious shortages of skilled manpower (current enrollment in universities
and technical and vocational schools is one quarter of the average rate for
other developing countries). With limited possibilities for expanding the
cultivated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high,
the growth rate for agriculture is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a.
during the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial
growth, and there are capacity constraints in the transport and commercial
sectors. Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a
time when competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very
great, domestic revenues have not been growing rapidly, and decentralization
has weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (published in December 1982 but covering the period January 1981
December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment, reform,
consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan period is
essentially viewed as an interim period during which the foundation will be
laid for more rapid economic development under subsequent plans. Modest
targets are set for production and income growth (4% p.a. for gross agri-
cultural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to grow
faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
deficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output,
but the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they
have been in the first two years of the Plan.
19.       Reform implementation will continue during the next three years.
Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of
organization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units)
encouraged, and the administrative functions of communes separated from
their economic functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will replace
profit remittance as the primary means of raising government revenue, indus-
trial administration will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises
will be closed down. The commercial system will be reformed and cooperative
and individual commerce, particularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In
investment planning, the Government is striving for more effective imple-
mentation of existing administrative regulations, but improving the structure
and efficiency of investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent
very much on progress on other aspects of reform. Measures to introduce
formal economic analysis (including use of shadow prices) into investment



-6-
decisions and to make producing units more economically and financially
responsible for their decisions through appropriate pricing and incentive
schemes are especially important. Price reform itself is recognized as
being crucial, but in view of the complexities and magnitude of the changes
required, the Government has decided that it cannot implement comprehensive
price reform until after 1985. However, appropriate upward or downward
adjustments in the most distorted prices are being made, and the prices of
many minor commodities are being allowed to fluctuate according to market
conditions.
20.       During the remainder of the 1980s, China's development and moderni-
zation programs are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of capital
and intermediate goods. Foreign capital requirements for energy development
will be particularly heavy. By the late 1980s, some imports of oil are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic energy production capacity is
established. China's temporary current account surpluses thus are expected
to change to moderate deficits over the next several years. But the overall
rate of import expansion, the size of the current account deficit, and the
magnitude of foreign borrowing requirements are very sensitive to
assumptions about economic trends and the effectiveness of government
programs. For example, an acceleration of economic growth without
significant improvements in efficiency, especially energy efficiency, could
result in large current account deficits by the end of the 1980s. In fact,
a relatively high rate of economic growth of 6-7% p.a. during the rest of
the 1980s (which is the growth rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will
probably be feasible only if major improvements in energy efficiency
continue.
21.       China has a strong claim to concessionary lending because it
is still one of the poorer countries in the world. However, access to
concessionary capital to finance its development and modernization program
is limited: apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of
concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average only $500-600 million a year
during the 1980s.
22.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will
be a difficult decade. But looking further ahead, China's economic prospects
appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants into the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced. Further progress will have been made in tapping China's large
energy potential and in using it more efficiently. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generate additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less con-
cerned about its terms. If the country's immense wealth of human talent,
effort and discipline can be combined with policies that increase the effi-
ciency of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing substantial
increases in the living standards of its people. Whether this potential
can be realized, however, will depend crucially on the success of the
Government's program of reform and adjustment in the 1980s.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
23.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now under way, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its devel-
opment experience and institutional knowledge gained in other countries and
help China to re-establish its position in the world community after its
lengthy isolation. Secondly, the Bank should assist China in removing the
major constraints on development: shortages of energy, transport infra-
structure, skilled manpower and modern technology. Even more important, the
Bank should help the authorities to use these and other inputs more
efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment control, as well
as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the Bank should help
the Government identify ways of reducing China's remaining poverty. Since
the Government has been successful in meeting the basic needs of most of its
people, these efforts should concentrate on the poorest rural areas.
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, 11 projects involving lending of about $1,068 million have been
approved. Three have been in education (University Development, Agricul-
tural Education and Research and Polytechnic/TV University), two in energy
(Daqing Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development and Zhongyuan-Wenliu
Petroleum), three in agriculture (North China Plain, Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation and Rubber Development), one in transport (Three Ports), one in
industry (Industrial Credit), and one in technical cooperation (Technical
Cooperation Credit). Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans
and credits as of September 30, 1983.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to pro-
vide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy. This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum
(Report No. 4072-CHA) analyzing developments over the next two years was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. In addition, the
Bank has undertaken studies in several areas important for our understanding
of the Chinese system, including rural finance and urban planning and manage-
ment in Shanghai.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally
to introduce new methods of economic management and planning. As prepara-
tion for the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual has been
developed with Bank assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China
Investment Bank. The Bank is now helping to develop a similar manual for
the Agricultural Bank of China. A program of economic research on China's



- 8 -
development problems, aimed at the application of advanced analytical tech-
niques, is underway in collaboration with Chinese economic research insti-
tutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysis of structural
change.
27.       Sector studies will help inter alia to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and agricultural
manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research Project.
A health sector review looked at rural health care delivery systems and
health manpower development.
Near-Term Lending
28.       Work has begun on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on technical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future
petroleum projects will, like the first two, emphasize the introduction of
modern technology, staff training and studies. Other operations are likely
to continue support for electric power and involve development and management
of large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. In transportation, work
is proceeding on two railway projects and a second ports project to provide
additional capacity.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education through a second
agricultural education project and another university development project.
Support of agriculture would continue through projects to provide rural
credit with emphasis on improved project appraisal and institution-building,
provide further assistance in agricultural research, and assist the
Government in forestry. In industry, further loans will be made to the
China Investment Bank, and there will be projects for technical renovation
and modernization in industries such as fertilizers and machine tools. In
health, a project will help improve rural health care services and medical
education. Bank assistance is also planned for a rural water supply
project.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR /1
30.       China is the fourth largest producer and third largest consumer of
commercial energy in the world. Coal is by far the most important source of
commercial energy (70% of total production in 1982), but oil production has
/1 For a broader discussion of the energy sector, see Bank Report
No. 3391-CHA, entitled "China: Socialist Economic Development."



- 9 -
increased rapidly since 1972 to become an important source of commercial
energy (22% in 1982) and of export revenue (accounting for about one quarter
of total export revenue). Natural gas, hydroelectric power and small
quantities of shale oil and geothermal power constitute the balance of com-
mercial energy. Noncommercial energy sources supply energy equivalent to
about 40% of commercial production. Commercial energy production grew at
10.5% p.a. from 1952-1975, but the growth rate has fallen since then and
between 1979 and 1981 total production declined by 2.1%. This trend was
reversed in 1982, when there was a 3.8% rise in commercial energy production.
About 20% of oil production and 1% of coal production are currently exported.
31.       China's achievements in developing energy resources over the past
three decades have been impressive. Production of coal has increased from
some 60 million tons in 1952 to 666 million tons in 1982. During the same
period, power generating capacity increased from about 2,000 MW to 72,360 MW.
Oil production increased from about 0.1 million tons in 1950 to 106 million
tons in 1979. These developments notwithstanding, the future prospects for
energy supply remain uncertain. The major oil fields, which together account
for about 90% of China's oil production, have peaked and entered a declining
phase. In 1982, oil production fell to 102 million tons. No new discoveries
have been made of a magnitude to offset this decline. Rapid expansion of the
coal industry faces difficult problems in terms of investment, location and
transportation. The remoteness of large hydro sites from load centers and
the long gestation period of hydro projects preclude sizable increases in
hydropower's share of energy production in the first half of the 1980s.
Resource Endowment
32.       China is well endowed with primary energy and has abundant resources
in terms of coal, hydrocarbons, oil shale and hydropower potential. Coal and
lignite reserves are concentrated largely in the north and northeast, which
represent about 70% of the total recoverable reserves in China (600 billion
tons). While future plans call for increasing coal production significantly
by such measures as opening new mines and increased mechanization, transport
(essentially railroad capacity) appears to be the single most important con-
straint to achieving this objective. Proven recoverable reserves of oil are
estimated at about 1.8 to 2.5 billion tons while the estimated probable
reserves range from 5-10 billion tons in the onshore regions and 4-8 billion
tons in the offshore areas. Recoverable gas reserves are about 130 billion
cubic meters. Reserves of oil shale in China are estimated unofficially at
400 billion tons. Current production of shale oil from the Liaoning and
Guangdong mines is about 300,000 tons p.a. China's exploitable hydropower
potential, among the largest in the world, is estimated at 1.9 million GWh
per year (present hydro generation is about 74,400 GWh). While geothermal
phenomena are abundant in the mountainous southwestern part of the country,
geothermal energy has not been developed to a significant extent in China
and its role is likely to remain limited. As in other developing econo-
mies, noncommercial fuels such as crop residue and animal waste are used
extensively, especially in rural areas. China has pioneered and is now the
leading producer of biogas.



- 10 -
33.       China's energy resources are not evenly distributed.  As much as
75% of the known commercial energy in terms of coal and oil is in the north
and northeast, which have nearly 30% of China's population and more than 45%
of gross industrial output. The east, with one-fifth of the total population
and 30% of industrial output, is almost devoid of any energy resource. In
the southwest, there is considerable hydropower and coal potential, but the
central south is largely bereft of energy resources except for some hydro
potential. Northwest China has considerable coal and oil resources but most
of these are in such remote and sparsely populated areas that development
would be extremely difficult and slow.
Sector Issues and Policies
34.       In rural areas, China has developed a large number of small coal
mines, about 85,000 mini-hydro plants and innumerable biogas units. The
mini-hydro stations, in particular, have made rural electrification possible
on an extensive scale. In 1982, almost 90% of communes and 71% of brigades
had access to electricity. However, China's level of commercial energy con-
sumption is very high in relation to its economic activity. Indications are
that there is substantial potential for improvement in industrial energy
efficiency in China. The Government is well aware of this problem and is
according energy conservation equal priority with increasing energy
production.
35.       Under the Sixth Five-Year Plan, the Government is putting major
emphasis on the development of the energy and transport sectors. Although
several coal and hydropower projects were postponed in 1981 because of over-
all investment reductions, energy investment has been restored to the pre-
viously planned level since 1982. Operations are underway to build a number
of hydroelectric and thermal power stations, develop open pit and underground
coal mines, and increase the capacity of transport facilities for coal
handling. To accelerate petroleum development, the Government has invited
foreign oil companies to explore and help develop both offshore areas and
selected onshore areas with difficult drilling conditions. However, because
of the long gestation period required for energy projects, it is unlikely
that there will be any substantial increase in energy supply until the late
1980s.
36.       In the short run, the Government is trying to ease the problem of
energy shortages through energy conservation policies and programs. The
measures comprise a mix of administrative and price incentives. Cutbacks in
plan allocations of energy to major industrial users appear to have been the
major factor thus far. Energy consumption norms have been reduced and more
strictly applied. Some very inefficient plants have been closed down.
Fifty-five energy conservation centers have been established to provide
enterprises with technical assistance in improving energy efficiency. These
programs have resulted in energy savings estimated at 35 million tons of
standard coal equivalent in 1980 and 26.5 million tons in 1981. About half
of these savings, however, might have been due to the shift in the industrial
structure from heavy to light industry. There is still much potential for
further energy-saving efficiency improvements in such industries as iron and



- 11 -
steel, non-ferrous metals, chemical products, fertilizer and thermal power
generation. Some price increases have also been effected. In 1979, the
prices of coal and natural gas were raised. More recently, special subsidies
on diesel fuel for certain users were eliminated, an excise tax of Y 70 per
ton of crude and heavy oil (burned as fuel) was introduced and marginal coal
prices to industrial users have increased. However, the present price
structure is not fully conducive to energy conservation. Further increases
in the price of coal combined with larger increase in the price of petroleum
products for industrial users would be necessary. High industrial
electricity rates would also encourage conservation and provide resources
for capacity expansion, thereby helping to eliminate the chronic electricity
shortage, which accounts for about 20% of losses in industrial production.
The Electricity Subsector
37.       The growth of the electricity subsector has been quite rapid.
Installed capacity has grown at an annual average rate of about 12%, from
1,850 MW in 1949 to 72,360 MW in 1982. About a third of this capacity was
in hydro plant and the remainder in thermal. Energy generation has increased
by about 14% p.a. over the same period, from 4,300 GWh to 327,700 GWh.
Annual per capita generation rose from 8 kWh in 1949 to 318 kWh in 1982.
Most of this electricity is used for industry (75%) and agriculture (17%).
38.       The basic strategy for the electricity subsector is to develop
China's immense hydro resources and coal-based thermal stations. Accord-
ingly, hydro development is being accelerated and coal-fired thermal stations
planned. These developments will require extra high voltage transmission
lines to transport power from remote sites to load centers and for intercon-
nection between regions. Efforts are needed to improve fuel efficiency in
thermal plants and to convert oil-fired units to coal-fired units. However,
the energy subsector faces a number of constraints, the most important of
which is a critical shortage of generating capacity, particularly in the
Northeast, North and East China grids. This has severely curtailed indus-
trial production in these regions. There is also a shortage of transmission
and distribution facilities. No interconnections have yet been made between
regions. This situation partly results from a scarcity of funds. The
Government is beginning to address this problem by giving increased priority
to financing many long-delayed power investments under the recently approved
Sixth Five-Year Plan. However, a dearth of experienced mid-career engineers,
inadequacy of construction and dispatch technology, and limited use of modern
planning tools are holding back China's power development program.
The Role of the Bank
39.       The Bank's role in the electricity subsector will focus on transfer
of modern technology, staff training, institution building with emphasis on
system planning and long-term financial planning, and assistance in identi-
fying cofinancing. Bank projects will introduce modern construction metho-
dologies, instrumentation and control of system operation, training of staff
on site and abroad, and technical assistance for more effective financial



- 12 -
planning and management. Cofinancing has been arranged for the proposed
project and continued efforts will be made to secure more cofinancing in all
future projects. The Bank will also encourage the introduction of modern
auditing procedures and international competitive bidding (ICB) especially
for civil works. With Bank assistance, the Government has already developed
and used interim guidelines for procurement of civil works through ICB. Use
of ICB for procurement of both equipment and civil works will continue to be
expanded as the Chinese staff gain more experience in using them. In the
next few years, the Bank's lending in China's power sector will focus on
hydropower developments, backbone transmission lines and mine-mouth thermal
stations, all of which will involve the Bank more deeply in subsector
planning issues.
Institutions
40.       Following the reorganization of China's State Council in 1982,
there are three principal ministries responsible for the energy sector: the
Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power (MWREP), the Ministry of Coal
Industry (MOCI) and the Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI). MWREP over-
sees all aspects of water resource management and electric power development
including policy making, system planning, and the design, construction and
operation of power and water resource projects of regional importance.
Under MWREP, there are six regional power administrations which coordinate
operations of the regional power grids and formulate long-term development
plans for approval by MWREP and the State Planning Commission (SPC). Below
the regional administrations are 16 provincial power bureaux operating as
regional grids, while a further ten power bureaux still operate in isolation.
The proposed project is located in eastern Yunnan Province near the borders
of Guizhou Province and Guangxi Autonomous Region. The electric power system
in Yunnan is administered by the Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau
(YPEPB) which will be responsible for operation of the Lubuge hydro station.
The Yunnan Provincial Electric Power Bureau (YPEPB)
41.       YPEPB, the proposed beneficiary, is responsible for the develop-
ment and operation of the electric power system in Yunnan Province. It
reports directly to MWREP in Beijing. It has 9 power generation and distri-
bution enterprises, a dispatch center and two enterprises responsible for
construction of thermal plants and transmission/distribution works. Day-to-
day management is handled by a director who is appointed by MWREP after con-
sultation with the State Council and provincial authorities. Major functions
are controlled by five deputy directors.
42.       YPEPB was first registered in Yunnan Province as a state-owned
enterprise in 1949. However, no legal documents existed until recently
evidencing the Bureau's legal status, powers and responsibilities. During
appraisal of the project, this question was discussed with MWREP, YPEPB, and
the Ministry of Finance (MOF). It was recognized that YPEPB's legal status
needed to be regularized before it could sign a project agreement with the
Bank. Accordingly, following the issuance of regulations governing all indus-
trial enterprises in China, a charter clarifying the legal status of YPEPB
was approved and issued by MWREP on November 10, 1983.



- 13 -
43.       Hydropower developments are planned and coordinated by MWREP
through its Water Resources and Hydroelectric Power Construction Corporation.
Hydropower projects in China have historically been designed and constructed
by organizations directed by the Ministry. Only on completion of construc-
tion have the power bureaux assumed responsibility for them. In the case of
Yunnan, the Fourteenth Construction Bureau (FCB) of MWREP is responsible for
hydro project construction, and project design has been undertaken by the
Kunming Hydroelectric Investigation and Design Institute (KHIDI).
44.       YPEPB has a work force of about 23,500, of whom only about 6%
have received technical training beyond secondary school level. For this
reason, YPEPB has established an extensive training program to upgrade the
basic education and skills of its staff. Since 1978, YPEPB has set up or
re-established-a number of its own training institutions, which, however,
are overcrowded and poorly equipped. Accordingly, a training component is
included under the proposed project.
Yunnan Power Market and Program
45.       The Yunnan power system had a total installed capacity of about
1,270 MW at the end of 1982 - about 2% of the country's total. This system
generated 5,360 GWh in 1982, of which about 47% was from hydro and 53% was
from thermal plants (mainly coal-fired). The system comprises two grids,
(central and southern), which are expected to be interconnected at 220 kV by
1985.
46.       Energy generation in Yunnan has been growing at the rate of about
5.4% annually between 1972 and 1982. In the same period, peak demand has
reached 916 MW, growing at an average rate of 5.7% p.a. Industrial users
have accounted for 83.8% of the electricity consumed, with agriculture,
transportation, and residential and commercial users accounting for 11.1%,
0.6% and 4.5% respectively. Based on an acceptable method of load project-
ion, the peak demand and energy generation are expected to double between
1982 and 1991, with an average growth rate of about 7.7% and 8.0% p.a.
respectively. The bulk of this growth will supply large new industrial
loads e.g., for the Dukou steel mill, which is located in the southern part
of Sichuan Province.
47.       During the period 1982 to 1991, YPEPB plans to commission 1,150 MW
of new generating capacity. Of this, 650 MW would comprise mine-mouth coal-
fired thermal plants at Kaiyuan; the balance would come from hydro plants.
The largest hydro project would be the proposed Lubuge plant, with an initial
capacity of 450 MW. The total cost of YPEPB's 1982-91 investment program
(including interest during construction) is estimated to be Y 3.9 billion
($2.0 billion).
Financial Position
48.       YPEPB has consistently achieved satisfactory financial results.
Net income after taxes has grown from Y 99 million in 1978 to Y 112 million
in 1982. Operating income produced rates of return on average net fixed



- 14 -
assets ranging from a high of 13% in 1979 down to about 10% in 1982. Over
the period under review, sales revenues and costs grew at an annual rate of
about 3-5%. The downtrend in the rates of return was due mainly to higher
depreciation expenses on the increased value of net fixed assets in opera-
tion. Fixed assets have not been revalued, and no revaluation is being
sought because of the low rates of inflation (averaging 1-2% p.a.) in China
over the last 30 years.
49.       YPEPB's balance sheets show no long-term debt, and until 1981, no
equity capital and practically no retained earnings or depreciation. Most
of the earnings and depreciation were remitted to the Government. Construc-
tion was financed by government budgetary allocations made through the annual
planning process. Working capital was also allocated by the Government.
50.       YPEPB is a self-accounting entity but is bound by the financial
regulations governing China's state-owned enterprises issued by MOF. Its
production and investment plans, which form part of the consolidated annual
plan of MWREP, are approved each year by SPC.   Its financial accounts are
prepared monthly, quarterly, and annually. A double-entry bookkeeping
system is used, and income and expenses are accrued at the end of each
financial reporting period. Although various organizations check YPEPB's
accounts for their own purposes (e.g. MOF, Tax Bureau, local banks), no
comprehensive audit is made. However, this situation has started to change
since 1983 with the establishment of the State Audit Agency and the
progressive establishment of provincial audit bureaux. Considerable progress
has been made in drafting regulations and standards, and in educating and
training officials. The Bank has assisted these bureaux by conducting a
seminar to explain the Bank's requirements and guidelines for the audit of
Bank projects; US$1 million has also been allocated for this purpose under
a Technical Cooperation Credit (No. 1412-CHA). During construction of the
Lubuge project, the Luoping branch of the People's Construction Bank of
China (PCBC) will certify the project expenditures. Assurances have been
obtained that YPEPB would have its annual financial statements and record of
project expenditures audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and submit them to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02). The audit is expected to be
performed by the Yunnan Provincial Audit Bureau.
51.       One of the anomalies in China's financial system is the absence of
long-term financial planning. During the preparation of the Lubuge project,
the Bank furnished a financial forecasting model and assisted YPEPB and MWREP
in preparing its first set of long-term financial projections. In the future,
this will help YPEPB assess the impact of its expansion plans on its future
financial position.
Electricity Rates
52.       Electricity rates in China have remained unchanged since 1952.
They are reasonably uniform except in the northeast where they have been
about 30% lower than elsewhere. The average tariff rate is about 6.6 fen



- 15 -
per kWh (US3.3/kWh).  Domestic and commercial rates are high compared to
industrial and agricultural rates because of the Government's policy of
discouraging consumption for domestic use. The rates in Yunnan are con-
sistent with the country-wide rates although some large industrial users are
allowed preferential rates. At present, the level of rates in Yunnan can
adequately cover the cost of supply. It is likely that within the next few
years power tariffs will be raised relative to prices in general as part of
the Government's reform and adjustment program and in line with an energy
policy that is giving (and will continue to give) considerable emphasis to
conservation.
Future Financial Performance and Covenants
53.       Under China's economic readjustment program, YPEPB is required to
finance new power plant construction by borrowing from PCBC. These loans
are subject to interest at 3% p.a. and are expected to be repaid over 20
years after the construction period of each project out of income and depre-
ciation derived from operation of the project. Working capital and govern-
ment allocations for capital construction will also be subject to charges of
2.5% and 3.6% p.a. respectively. Although traditionally only a part of
construction costs is capitalized, YPEPB agreed to include the full value of
all fixed assets and work-in-progress in its annual financial statements
(draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02(d)).
54.       Financial projections were prepared for YPEPB, assuming that
tariffs are progressively increased from the current level (USd3.25/kWh)
to about UUS4.0/kWh by 1991. The projections show that YPEPB would con-
tinue to achieve reasonable rates of return (between 7% and 9%), except in
1989 and 1990, when the project units are commissioned and rates would be 6%
and 5.3% respectively. Debt service would also be adequately covered, by
about 1.9 times in 1991.
55.       YPEPB agreed to take all measures, including tariff adjustments,
to maintain its gross revenues equivalent at least to its operating expenses
(draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03). YPEPB will endeavor to reduce
overhead costs through more stringent performance monitoring. In addition,
a debt limitation covenant was agreed to restrict long-term borrowing by
YPEPB if a reasonable forecast shows that its projected internal cash
generation would not exceed projected debt service (draft Project Agreement,
Section 4.04).
56.       In conjunction with these covenants, YPEPB agreed to consult with
the Bank by October 1 each year on its financial performance, annual plans,
current and future investment programs, and measures it proposes to take
during the following year to comply with the financial covenants (draft
Project Agreement, Section 4.05).



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       The project was identified in September 1981 and appraised in
October/November 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington on December
5-9, 1983, with a Chinese delegation headed by Mr. Wu Shengyuan. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4334-CHA, dated January 23, 1984) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
58.       The principal objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to provide generating capacity and energy to Yunnan power grid;
(b) to introduce modern technology in construction of dams, tunnels
and underground powerhouses;
(c) to introduce ICB for procurement of civil works and associated
technical assistance;
(d) to address financial and auditing issues;
(e) to introduce financial forecasting;
(f) to promote cofinancing with bilateral and export credit sources;
and
(g) to provide staff training.
Project Description
59.       The project is located on the Huangni River, a tributary of the Nan
Pan River, about 220 km east of Kunming in Yunnan Province in southwest
China. It is the last stage of the seven-stage Huangni River basin develop-
ment. The project will comprise:
(a) construction of a rock-fill dam about 100 m high, a spillway
system, an intake structure, a 9.4 km long headrace tunnel, a
surge tank, two penstock shafts with steel lining, an underground
powerhouse, a railrace tunnel and switchingyard, and provision of
equipment therefor;
(b) provision and installation of three generating units of 150 MW
each, with provision ultimately for a fourth unit;
(c) provision and construction of two 220 kV transmission lines of
about 184 km each from Lubuge to Kumming and one 220 kV trans-
mission line of about 129 km from Lubuge to Qujing with
associated substations;



- 17 -
(d) consultant services for a Special Board of Consultants (SBC) and
construction management and supervision; and
(e) a training program.
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The total financing required is estimated at $811.7 million,
including interest during construction, the front-end fee on the proposed
Bank loan and the charges on use of foreign capital. Identifiable duties
and taxes amounting to about $44 million are included in the total cost.
The proposed Bank loan of $145.4 million, including the capitalized front-end
fee, would cover about 25% of the total project cost (net of duties and
taxes) or about 58% of the foreign exchange requirements. It would be used
to finance the foreign costs of the following items:
(a) civil works for the water conductor system;
(b) imported construction equipment and materials;
(c) equipment and materials for the transmission lines and substations;
(d)  electrical and mechanical equipment (other than turbines,
generators and auxiliaries;
(e) consultant services; and
(f) training.
The cost estimate is based on mid-1983 prices. It includes physical contin-
gencies of 10% for civil works and transmission lines and 5% for equipment.
Price contingencies have been calculated as follows: foreign costs: 7.5%
for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% for 1986 and thereafter; local costs: 4% for
1984, 3.5% for 1985, and 3% for 1986 and thereafter. The foreign exchange
requirements of $250.2 million are expected to be met by the proposed Bank
loan ($145.4 million), export/suppliers' credits ($40.9 million), bilateral
assistance (about $18.9 million) and local bank loans (about $45.0 million).
61.       The proposed loan would be made to the Government of China at the
standard variable interest rate (currently 10.08%) for 20 years including
five years of grace.   The Government would onlend the proceeds of the loan
to YPEPB under a subsidiary loan agreement with a 20 year term, including
five years of grace, at 8% p.a. interest. YPEPB would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Execution of an acceptable subsidiary loan agreement would
be a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(a)).
Cofinancing
62.       A UNDP grant of $26,000 was used to finance the first visit of the
Special Board of Consultants (SBC) to China. The Australian Development
Assistance Bureau (ADAB) has already approved a grant of about $1.3 million



- 18 -
for the services of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation (SMEC) for
project preparation, bid evaluation and training. Additional ADAB grant of
about $5.8 million has been agreed in principle to meet the costs of con-
sulting services for construction supervision of the headworks complex and
water conductor system and a training program. The grant will also finance
the cost of SBC's subsequent visits to China. Agreement has been reached
with the Export Council of Norway on commitment of a grant of $11.6 million
(90 million Norwegian Kroner) to finance imported construction equipment,
materials and construction supervision services for the underground
powerhouse and the tailrace tunnel. These bilateral grants are expected to
be approved in tranches (in time for the implementation of corresponding
project works).
63.       The training component would be financed mainly from two sources:
(a) the Australian and Norwegian grants would finance the services of SMEC
and the Advisory Group of Norway (AGN) respectively to provide training for
the staff of KHIDI, the Lubuge Project Construction Management Bureau
(LPCMB) and YPEPB in design, construction management, quality control,
accounting and cost control, and reporting on implementation of the project;
and (b) an additional grant from ADAB would finance preparation of a
long-term training program for YPEPB and provision of training tools and
equipment for the expanded YPEPB technical training school. Assurances have
been obtained that YPEPB would carry out the training program in accordance
with arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.08).
64.       Main items of electrical and mechanical equipment, such as
turbines, generators, and auxiliaries, with an estimated aggregate cost of
about $41 million, are expected to be financed by export/supplier's credits.
All local costs of the project, downpayments on the suppliers' credits and
interest during construction on local and foreign loans will be financed by
loans from PCBC.
Project Implementation
65.       Field investigations of the project were initiated in 1964 by
KHIDI. Its preliminary design report was submitted to the Government in
1978, and was revised and approved in June 1981. Project preparation works,
such as access roads, construction camps and field facilities, are well
advanced. The main civil works construction will start early in 1984 and be
completed by mid-1989. Reservoir filling is planned to begin in November
1988. The first unit will be commissioned in December 1988, with the second
and third units following at intervals of 6 months. The project should be
completed by December 1989.
66.       The Lubuge Project Construction Management Bureau (LPCMB) has been
set up to supervise, with the assistance of consultants, the works carried
out by contractors. Assurances were obtained that YPEPB would maintain LPCMB
with appropriate staffing and authority to carry out the works under the
project (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)). Assurances were also
obtained that YPEPB would retain the services of engineering consultants for
preparation of bidding documents (Phase III) and construction management and



- 19 -
supervision (Phase IV) (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02). Phase III
is estimated to require about 44 manmonths of consultant services in FY83
and FY84. The average man-month cost, including salaries, fees, inter-
national travel and subsistence, is about $13,000. A total of $27.2 million
or 4.4% of project cost has been allocated for consultant services and con-
struction supervision. MWREP has set up the Special Board of Consutlants
(SBC) consisting of one local and three foreign experts to review the
project design, instrumentation and monitoring program, and inspection and
maintenance manual and to provide technical advice during project construc-
tion. The first meeting of SBC took place in July 1983.
67.       Satisfactory arrangements have been made to compensate and resettle
about 1,230 persons who will be displaced by the project. Crop production
losses due to inundation of farmland are estimated to be about 330 tons a
year. In the reservoir area, there are no mineral resources, forests or
fishery resources of significant economic value. No major environmental
problems are anticipated to result from project construction.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.       Construction of the headworks complex, underground powerhouse and
tailrace tunnel will be undertaken by the Fourteenth Construction Bureau
(FCB) by using local procedures./l Construction of the water conductor sys-
tem is being contracted through ICB in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. For this purpose the Bank assisted in the preparation of interim
government guidelines for procurement of civil works through ICB. This is
the first occasion that a civil works component has been subjected to ICB in
a Bank project in China. A domestic preference of 7.5% is being allowed
when evaluating the bids of domestic contractors or joint ventures eligible
for such preference. Prequalification of civil works contractors was sought
and 17 foreign contractors qualified. Two domestic corporations succeeded
in entering into joint venture arrangements with foreign contractors. Bids
for civil works were opened in November 1983 and award is expected to be
made in early 1984. Results of bidding indicate that foreign contractors
can be competitive in China under the conditions provided in the bidding
documents.
69.       Equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank would be pro-
cured through ICB in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Domestic
suppliers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the applicable duties,
whichever is lower. Spare parts costing less than $100,000 per package may
be obtained by direct purchase, up to an aggregate amount of $1.0 million.
Instrumentation and equipment costing less than $150,000 would be procured
through international shopping (with at least three quotations from selected
manufacturers) up to an aggregate amount of $2.5 million.
70.       Tender documents for the electrical and mechanical equipment (other
than turbines, generators and auxiliaries) would be issued in the early part
11 On the basis of a negotiated contract specifying the unit costs, terms
of payment, incentives for completing the work ahead of schedule, and
penalty for delays in completion.



- 20 -
of 1985 to allow contract awards by late 1985. Documents for equipment and
materials for the transmission lines and substations will be issued in late
1984 and contracts awarded by mid-1985.
71.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against the following items: (a)
60% of the total cost of civil works for the water conductor system; (b) 100%
of the ex-factory cost of equipment and materials manufactured locally; and
100% of the foreign cost of directly imported equipment and materials; and
(c) 100% of the foreign cost of consultant services and training.
Benefits and Risks
72.       The project has been designed to meet the peaking and energy
requirements of the Yunnan power system when it comes into operation at the
end of 1989. A comparison between the capital and operating costs of the
proposed Lubuge project and a feasible coal-fired alternative on a present-
worth basis shows that the Lubuge project is the least cost option at dis-
count rates of up to 14%. No other hydro projects in Yunnan have been
investigated sufficiently to be considered as possible alternatives to the
Lubuge project.
73.       The economic rate of return on the Lubuge project was calculated
by equalizing the present value of the economic costs and benefits attribut-
able to the project. The costs were shadow-priced and included capital
investments, operation and maintenance costs of the project and the distri-
bution system. Benefits were estimated on the assumption that electricity
tariffs would be increased to 7.5 fen/kWh by 1988 and to 8 fen/kWh by 1991.
The economic rate of return obtained was about 12%.
74.       No major difficulties are expected during project implementation.
Construction risks are expected to be normal for a major hydroelectric pro-
ject of this type. The technical soundness of the project has been reviewed
by SMEC and SBC. SBC will make regular visits during project construction
to advise on design and technical problems. Consultant services will also
be available to assist with construction management and supervision.
Assurances were obtained that YPEPB would undertake a program of periodic
inspection and maintenance of the dam and associated works constructed under
the project, with the assistance of independent engineering experts whose
qualifications and experiences shall be reviewed with the Bank (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.04).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Yunnan
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (YPEPB), and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 21 -
76.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are that China's State Council
shall have approved the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement; and that a
satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement shall have been signed between the
Government and YPEPB (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
77.       I am satisified that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Attachments
January 23, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF*                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECES T  lb          LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOVE
196RE(TO    1970A-.  ESTP)ATE-          ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AREA (TBW0SAND SQ . Qt)
TOTAL                                9561.0       9561.0       9561.0
AGRICULTURAL                         3176.3       3213.0       3182.9
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      40.0/c       90.0        300.0                276.7                     1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        340.0        427.0        618.0               398.4                       792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS**
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  683400.0    838900.0    991300.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          18.4/d         ..         20.6                21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                               1197.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 1434.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2040
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          71.5         87.7        102.5               161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              215.2        261.1       307.8                363.1                      1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            38.9         37.7         32.2                36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                            56.3         57.2         62.4                59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.8          5.1          5.4                 4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTN RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.7          2.1          1.5                 1.9                         2.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                 4.0                         3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           38.9/e       34.1         20.9                29.3                        31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           23.77e        9.8          7.8                10.9                         9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.87;i       2.6          1.4                 2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..         74.0/f              48.1                        46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                            ,         100.0        117.0               111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         78.8/e       88.7        107.0                98.1                       114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             49.47;       53.0         65.0                56.7                        57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..         12.7         15.0                13.9                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE**          26.1/e       10.7          7.2                12.2                         7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)**        40.5/g       57.9         67.2                59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)**       165.0ie       90.0         71.0                96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..           ..                32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..                70.8                        54.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                22.2                        26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..           ..                18.1                        41.4
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..   .            72.7                        47.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                 4.7                        33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             8330.0/h    3800.0/h    1920.0/h              3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              4020.0       2840.0       1890.0              4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1040.0        760.0        490.0              1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                               210.0           ..        160.0               298.4                       651.1
RURAL                             10140.0           ..       1010.0              5941.6                      2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..           ..                   ..                       27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..          ..          5.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..          4.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..          5.5
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - -_ - - - - - - - - - - --__ _ - -__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ _ _ -



- 2 3 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA PEOPLE'S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MDST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT              LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCCME
1960/'-b    1970-  ESTIMATE/-          ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION***
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                   109.0        110.0        117.0                96.1                      101.2
MALE                       ..           ..       126.0               107.8                      106.0
FEMALE                     . .                   106.0                82.9                       97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    21.0         23.0         34.0               30.2                        44.9
MALE                       . .                    40.0                37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                                 '          27.0                22.2                       44.6
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)              ..           ..         2.2                 2.3                       18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                ..          ..         26.0                34.4                       32.7
SECONDARY                             ..           ..         17.0                18.4                       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)               43.0/d         ..         69.0/i              53.5                       72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              ..          ..           ..                 1.6                        9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..          ..        150.6                96.8                      113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..          ..         15.8                 9.9                       50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..          ..           ..                16.4                       54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..           ..           ..                 3.6                        3.4
LABOR FORCE****
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         319589.0/j  377495.0    463348.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    38.3         38.0        37.2                 33.3                       33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  ..          ..         68.9                69.0                       50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     ..          ..        18.7                 15.8                       19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.8/j       45.0        46.7                 42.5                       38.6
MALE                                55.91        54.5         57.0                54.4                       50.7
FEMALE                              37.07        35.0        35.9                 29.8                       26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9/j       1.0          0.8                 1.0                        1.1
INCQOE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..         12.5/k              16.5                       22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..         39.37k             43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         6.87k               6.9                        6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..        18.47Tk             17.5                       15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..               133.9                      194.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..              111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..           ..                 ..                       178.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                 ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..                43.8                       24.4
RURAL                             ...              ..           ..               51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Interpolated 1957-62 data; Id 1964; /e 1955-65 average; /f Percentage of women of reproductive age; /g 1955-64
average; /h Senior doctor of western medicine; /i 1982; /j 1957; /k Distribution of people ranked by households per
capita income.
** All population and vital statistics are Bank estimates which differ from Chinese official statistics.
*    Formal education only; non-formal enrollment is substantial.
**** Definition and coverage differ from those of Chinese official statistics.



- 24 -                                                                        ANNEX I
DE71ITINS  F SCIA   IKICAORSPage     3    of    6
Notes:    1 I lhogh the coca ar  drown teor sucs.genenoly judged the moat ucthoritato,. and reIable, it should also be noted that they may not be tnterntioeily
comarale    .eou. of the look of etondarde-d derlolalon   and concepte  use  by d faen    ooale    n  oletn   she dote.  The date are, none.ahel..se, . osfo1 to
The rolea rncefop    r  (I) thaes ...ou.ntry grouP of ohe eabjeot  -cuosy And (2) A  ..a.e  grous p athob . -ochat higher aegemoetha.n the country group of sha
ubjsct tccuncry (ecoepo for ''High Income" Oil Inportaro' grocp eha-  'Middle  I.oose Ncih  Africa and 9lddim F.et'  teI                  oe.     eas    fstogrmoeclaa
affinIitina). In abh  reeec    ou   aa  h   u Raaepopulation  eighted arithmetic  -ecoi  for eahidioo  adaec   nyiuhemat..jority of.t                                               absearirta   Or a
gecup hem  ata for abt ltdImano.  110c  ins coeeeofoaais   mn   h  ldlaos  eedn                            abs aviablt oI fdaend Ia  o   nfr,eatestb
reeriled In relating on o  of ...   do tor on anther.  These aweage  oreonip  uafu  In ocpteing the nalue of one indicator at e tIre asang the emantry and
AREA (thouma.nd sq.ko,)                                                                                   !yp)4tioyprfyiogian-    Pouato    iulded by nuebr of .r..ttIlIg
-Total  -of-e  area oc-yrling land area and inland  acr;1960,                                       P.1i3T0idd1_  d._afrtoee  radIcal echool at ontr-rsty lend.
1970 mod 1980 data,                                                                                   Populacion per Naralng Pera.ct- Populenton dioided by  -cbar of pratiitog
arulra -tEnlinate of agriouIaura  anra uead temporarily oprancyelsnd fel   rdea   uss   al  aonrs,paatlrrs   n
fo    r ps,peturee, nanket rod kiachen gardene Ir to lie tallo-; 1960,                            n         feo   cil  iarles
1970 and 1980 data.                                                                                   Pocainpriepoltd  -om lb ra,  an,d coral - Ppalaston  (tintel,
urban, end rural)   i~dltdbycarrpec                  nubrfhsial es
tpPPCfiA (II0) - mNy  par capIt, rhi etma1 atcurn  narkot prcs.nielei   ulced  rnt    ee al  nd epeoilated hopital end
nelculand by aoe oonnsrioo necod at Wed Omok  tlee  (099-RI baic):                       rehbilitaton  centes.  hosptala areeecablt~e79s pemanentlnstaffe
1960, 1970, and 1901 doartbaa    os  o P, phy..nian.  I'st*blboharnotLp-oLdo   principally nomtdial
c rer  co   .Included    Rural hopitals,  _oaoer   leeloda health med
ENERGY CONSUMPTION ff8 CuPITA - AnI-1 apparent ctoto    fcrrta                                                edls    e reotpraetlystffed b    physLoLao Chat by a sediwal
p,,ar  energy (coll  and lignite, P'a er    Iaaa            Igt  o  hydra-  nulo                            eine,nrm    idolfe, moo.)  hbo  ofeh                 eptio    oowdts   e
end geothermal elentrioty) to kiilgret of 000 Iquiloaet per onpita;                                       preide a Ihaloed  range of sediooL fociltoiss.  Pe r stetlstioal 7.pseps
LOu6, 1970, and 1980 data,                                                                                 urban hoapiralt  inolade ,II, pri-oipalyge...ral  heepitels5 and r.raI
heepittal, local  or rural hoepitale. and aedloel cod eaternity ..entera.
POPULAuTION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                              Spenioliend hoapitala are inoluded  -oywom  ooa.
TotalPplto,Rd-er tosna   -. cof July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1981                                             Ad.aimlns per HospitaIe -Tn   n e  of adissIns to er disohargee
data.                                                                                                    freh aae           dRedd by nie nuhrfbae
Urbn  opleioIeren  of .tta)             ..Rti  of urba  to nucal population;
difro    eIntin   ofubn  ro ay effert conyarobiliny of dataRIig
ao..go..nctite;ihil96, 1970, and 1981 dono.                                                            neatefe  of household I oersnew eecl houmold) - ntcl.  re.ae oa
Porolaaioe Projeoine-A h.u.eh1doneo a  fagru                                                                                                      MfInd "idal   wh  shar.         oo  q-aree
Poowlatio. n   Yo yer2000 - C,orrno popalation proJeotie.  re bc h.ted on 1980                          and their  aim  erl. A boarder or loAfer asp or may .co  he ianloded in
mel   oulnIcby  ag  ed too and thnir snTtoitny and fertility                                          the howabold taf      easoolpr p-en...
eatre. Peojeolue paomener  for ewrtality raesu.Prae of thret                                 Anerage numbe  or remn  nroo-om,   ra.  abnd rua   org    abe
_I:e  eomo   life enpentanny at birth inorroalag slob cwaactry's e.fpro pperrweIn all orban, and rura   cepled c                                                          trnaoeI
capita  moons  lene fl, en  fs l' lf   epenntny macbiltting o  77.5                           doalliega, r-peontiu-ly.  Delnsr  laenn eaetsr rtore  and
years,   The parseners  for fet iltay rot   II. hans three le-rl                               _noocpted porno.
ttuoo   daolio  intfertilltysn-urding to mons..  1tuo  and p00 flenity                              A-oes  no Elec-iotay)precoiullna      oa    re    n   am 
pann pefroo.    ohtonyi   hncandcnoftaria                                                   Co'oonIoc " " 'tl delig     iteletniil (taI liobog qoi               spnetg
woebI.et.n  of  ortalityand fertilIty treende fo  prPjenton  PurpI e ..                               o " 'Mt"'f corai * urban, sod rural doeIl. les  epeetlualy.
StatIonar. y popoloti-n-lInaeaatioaory Ppoplatico tbre to on grouch
sic   the birth  rate Is equol tr cbh  death re       a nd   als  the oge                      EDUCATION
aeruor arereoinsoane           T Oo is onhia_a  ooly afeer fenilIty rate                         Ijane  inrlime.ne  Rsti.a
denilos  to the r`placaneon  Ia  of un.if,i  nte  reproduction  rats, oha                             primary  ohoo)-1  ewal ale and female-fre   twrl.sleai  female
each gen-rnion of  ..e..  ..yII.s        Icrf e.aunly.  The attinnary                                   eolimoer   f al loeat the Prisar.y Ie..lI              Pe prosa Igs   f rapeanlee
pouanoaecoe -ti-ned un the basi   nOte ProJected oh-r-tra-                                      ,eI,c  shool-age  pop,aflotte-    nrali  .1lolde  obhildeso aged h-Il
ictin  Ifth  pupulotion in aba year 2000, and abs rate of dseline of                                     ertbunejsad fo  diff              Ie   eghs.o  pimay eduotiwe; for
fertiliy  raceOn repa 'nteeon   levl,.outriealinbalh                                                                   e       education enrllme.nt noy sensed 100 perwent
YearT  ttionary copultion" isreached - The peer abe tt oai.nnysic                                                        ..n puiaor 1beo  orIonie  flilmo lae
ynyoletia ties  wIll bero-ohed.                                                                       irwdeyahoal - total  rel`e and female- Computed asaben-;ssnotder
fopaloatun. D ..ity                                                                                          ednnorea en least fear pIr   fepae    riaylsralt
l id-yeor puplatiwe per square.  IIfl...ter (00O beotarool  of                             p-oldet fnaral,   oainl   ortahr-ano   n tratiee   fee
bhbYt ea   1960, 1970,and 198  dan.                                                                     pupils usually of 12 to 17 yeora ef age; o-rrespotde..ne . earesar
yenar   he. tarlnulnunl land         C- spitri te above fnoarbolnlabnd                                     genonl.ly ...cladad.
only; 1960, 1970 and 1960 data.                                                                     Vonaloni  en..eI nt   eecaer of ..e.wndary) - VR.a.tia..al Inertcitwt..
P-putnlo  #gs  NSantr  ( p -ron) - Childrean (0-14 years), aurking-oge (15-                               inld   tcnc l,ndasttalll, er oher Ip-o a   bIII, operate  ledapeed-
66yers)nd rrtird  (65 ..ara and over) at pecrentooso of aid-yearrtyerasdeprenso   ewdory  rntwtot
popolatina; 1960, 1970, and 9I  dona                                                                   ul-n...cher rotiw-oian   n   ee darn - Itesl   oet  eoIledts
,Porlenion Growth Race (pr-ten) - nonal - Aon...  grooch cones of tata1i od-                                                                                 b..I _.     PJI   Ipr~imay IId a-codoryleladvedbawbcor   ehers in the  er
year papuloniwn fnn1950-60, 1960-PI, and 19y0-81.                                                 eropodieR  leoee.
Ppcc.ia2ni   Ir,-tb Rats   prorethnt  - arban - Aenul groth rane- of  rbon                              Adult li terany rote lp.oernti  - Litcreate sdu1ns (this  to read oand erite) a
pwpuloti-t  for 1950-60, 191-70, sod '971-61t.                                                          a perorotege  of tonal edula populocloa aoed 13 yeace andwr.
Crude Birth Race )prerchn.....d) -100  lIon biebaye  thouteod of mid-
Crude  tawbhen      a   huad       ooldah    e   buodo   i-rrPteor   Cara (Per thaadprlto)- P..... ger eara coepri.e eater
Pop"ltion;  1960, 1970, oId 1991o dIa                                                                   nJr.oaoting less thso eight pars....;...nIadestbaso,h..rs.. and
Or..a ORprod                    ... OneAcca  uber of daa8htereaoanill hear ino1 cictoryvehiole..
bar taceal T.roy _dul-  perIdif abeh roeite                pean    g-apaiflc                          Radio Srneivera (pert t -Icadpeuain   -Alltypee ef recei-r  far radio
fee     yrnw;uulyfv-ya    gnera en cding in 1960, 1970, and                                             bradne... ma genera  p t  pe   hu d of  popletiwa; aenldes  e
1981.                                                                                                  lice,nsed  rennlvera  In ....onire -un  In yearswhen regterotto   of  .edi.
toad   Flnladcpor,Rao ....nIhouaoeda)_ - Aono  ocahon-1r of ooo-ptvra                                     acs  a  in effect; don  for cont peacrma- ac  he compaable ston  most
of birch-owttrot denic.. under  u   oe   of natclor.l foelily pi...lng0.. oorta a..bolished II Inaneing.
progam                                                                                                TV R-neve a pr chiausond rpatolota)_ - TR rowei..re ta r beaadcot tw
Fotily PIa.ongno-OUo-o  (c..ro.nt of macitd  -we)  oen              noe f married                         oenrclpnt er           c endyplelo  eroolodmcl  ts dT   esor
emeof vhlld-hsrngae..           I  tes Iaho une brhvo ld                    _evie   no                       - lvuteand  In yeac-  habe  re ttiarro of  Isa  n               er flet.
oll marr.Ied    _r In aeneug   ocaP.                                                                  N1cU2ao Elir-c -lonl   (ver  h..u..tu pup.larine) - Shoot the  -oa-ge
FOOl MDl nIToITI0b                                                                                           cirvuun. lot of "daily genral I-r-rto nevapaper'  definod aaoIperitdooa
lodao of Food Pr-d-cnio  per -alt  )tR-I10                   I,dec of per  -pitluhiuvvvdvvw   prinar   yltv  reodIn,g,gnecl ne-t   It Ia  -wnidered
feed ond It I - aled-r yea  hcal           . nodIr te I oI-e  prlasry gods   r                        Clones payou  ucteodann   per Capito Per Year-Mod  e th                 -cbmc If
acg-r... inateod of  ug-) oh lob ace edible and ...oncln octrienta ) .-i.                               r cken  aul-d doeing the year, iontudaig aditelcot  to drine-ta                    anrcemd
c efo   nod tea  ore eocluded) .  R,gfcrgot  prnd-tilnI of rubote   aobi   uvico
Per capia auvolyof coloien  pore     ,ofreuiremenots)   C Copundfn                               Tonal Lahor f.ore (,hu..a.nds) - Ewoe... illyaotinePe..et.. ien.ldit  Arme-d
ovryoovln   f00fndaplIooolbei  outryprcyr                                                             foroea and  nveapluyed hut nacdlude    uv ie, hoadena-     ,        too., nenerbog
do.d oayuIIIaP__i carned                    orai  po-dooIo_  iepvrta  lem.                              poo iof vi at  ISea .  Raotln    to orbu   c-tonle  are ta
onporn,, and chenges to a-ck.  hot -opyliea  coclodn wi.le  fedeed, ed,                                  -oparable; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
qownllrea ond in feud p.....tiog, and Iot... in di.ntlbucin.                                            Fenate Ip reret)_F-fial  labor f.or  am  perce.t.g en        f tena1 labor force,
nqreetarert_tinatead by FAR basr.d oo physiolg1 oo  ndor fc   we                                  awoae(rci)-lbor fo.e in foreleg, forestry, banttIng and
anttiniy and h-alth nvaideriog etnluv-etaIl.neperatc,oy eIghte,                                            fimbiog wo percentageo  tonal labo  forne ;160, i97R end i9L dm1.
ate  codw_ dlo ituno   of pvyult-tio   cd aloitutt   10 paceon, fur ...tenOdot  (re-tent  - Lbne fort  to attic0, onetoatautn, ma-wfact"'ing
athuohl  lee;1961-65, 1970 and tOi  data.                                                                and elentriclay, ewnar and g           pa    e eceocge nf tonal labor fwce; 0960,
Per coPit. Iovply of protein (gna-   per day) - Protein o.nonrt of porrcpint.                                1970 aed 1991 dana.
net  upyl  of  ondPedp.Reaploffond is definedwoahoc.parnlIpnoRae(rrn)-onl,tl, on  femle-parc Inlpetiwn we
Oaqlreevn   fr ol ccottr  eaablshd by OROA  _roide far abbo                                       1cilpeearccue:w oo    ae    .e eae                                lao  farwea
e1lloonorn  of 60 greoc of tonal pcenper day ad 10 gross of olalncd                                     peccetnae   of tonal,..ele cod fe...le populati.on of oIages                rapet-lnl;
puloe protein, of  hioch II gracs  hould ha animal protein.  Theme                                      1960, 19700  and 1961 data.  These ace hated en ILO's porttcptioonrmtea
atsoderdo  are Inc-   tanthvbea  of 75 Ecao of'nonoI protein and 03 ..oI                                r_flettilog age-se.ar . trnre If the popalatiwa, and long time trend,  A
ofannl poc.ewin  0 onavrage for the carld, yrpndbyPGtthe                                             fea aatfoanea are frye   Satniooflocr
Thir~dt Wordfod       -Sny  1961-h, 1970 aod 1980 data.                                               Eoni   eeoeo   al  t ei               ao  paplaien coder 15 and 65 end Iner no
Per calr peoto     uPpoly froo avisaI and puIlse  - Procein aupply of food                                 the totallabo.r'force.
deri,nd fro   niw        n  pu1.es to gr.ra per day; 1961-R5, 1970 aed 1977
dant,                                                                                               INCOME 0IiToUItIf
Chtild (.ace  i-4w) Death lute   per thowoand) - IceauI deanha per thbou.sand toPieo eo  trot  Inca..  'boh Iinth                                               ln bd) - Reneloed by riehet 5
leno  gewp I-' peace, no nthildere. Ic thia  000 gro..p; for oat de-orlpiog                               pcoe,na, rneo2perorat,  ocre.an2f  ecnt   i  poorest 40 perneot of
tn..nriro  data foba       .ro   life tabiea; 1910, 1910 and 1981 dora.                                 hvoahd.
HEALTH                                                                                                  POVERTY 7AR117 GROUPS
Lif  famonacrn  Orth(cera) -brmag  vomber of years nf life ce-cining                          !fT    Tf)f_in    anetace very  pprowioute m..no. o. f ponmety lenele, end
an birth; 1960, 1970 nod 1981 dataa                                                                     hbood be interpreted aith on...ideechir  -atiwo,
InetMcatyRt              er(e  thou..uvd) - uooul death.ouf itfootauno    t                           Eatlewaad Ahooluta Poeety Iroom Leo   fli aer capita) -ocban and rural-
prrof cr per thou-ud  iona hotha;t 1960, 1970 and.1991 dota.                                           .Ihlte yw-ray .n..e..n.          i  that lnnae_      er   ec    m        ita
uccos  of nSf  watr (ro rcmconl,, of       IIoton) -_ea    rbco, and caal-                                con,-lcaly ade0uwn   dlma plu   e                  nrall   w-foodrearsneieo
Ouhr of people  tctc,   urban, and cotal) oitlreomvoa llaaootnnafr                                   nlffordub
cater ..pply )cncludro t,ewtad oufccir    rcnaodbaOtndRe atv   povert . on. ...                                                                oe l(Unn  Pre  -pita) -  rban cand coral-
uIot,,atdowe  ouc  -o than fr.e protected  ,;hoerbolina, opig, aoI                             RuPa  relti-e  p-veny ivoe .. ne  hai one-third of -aneag-per o-plte
eaicar  cel)  opecctl             of the lc reaptoe popu` atlo.In                                       -.-er Ina  lnomo  the county.  llrha  level Iai dectod fro  Ohs  --Ia
orb an area a yabllc f.unnaia yr anandpvt lonwod vnn sore than 200 macera                               level with ad)o--et for hig her coo t of liiong in urbaM            rea
houhae,          -   bvo al orounrweod hlecd esocudtelp          atteoawenfthat                         onru        pl Pecet   f.p.atov...nvdoc.)bor...olr
abcda  i  ftcin   nr _oely  aue  oredo
uoceoatvnooerna flisyveol (peeceoc of rop lsoc I- yvul tar hon  codif                                  1-,,         lft
di hcac -poennalet d of theIr -ouecove  up ltn ..  Foc-..a di-potal
homanet.Ealta  n  wuite-1oee by. nuteo-fvp no oftema ne bte un  ofpn-ooccRwyl  wdpoecoaDprmn
pririr. aod alailac  iotna) lut nMaRy 1983



- 25 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (aid-1982)
GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (%) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                      2.2       3.4      9.0    8.6    3.9    6.6   11.0
Light industry                   8.3       7.8     10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1    5.7
Heavy industry                  11.6       9.3     15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7    9.9
Net Material Product (NMP)         5.2       4.8     12.4    7.0    6.1    4.8    7.4
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981   1982
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4  116.6
NMP deflator        (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.1   100.5    104.5   108.4   110.5  110.9
Exchange rate       (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.86    1.68       1.55    1.50    1.71   1.89
Amount                                                      Average Annual Growth
1982                  Shares of GDP (x)                    (x) at Constant Prices
National Accounts             ($ billion)   1957    1979    1982    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-90
/a       /a
GDP                           260.4       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8         5.8       6.0      6.5
Agriculture                  96.1         ..    32.5    36.9    32.4    27.9    1.6          3.2       5.8      3.2
Industry                    105.4         ..    43.5    40.5    44.4    48.1   12.1          8.9       7.4      8.2
Other                        58.9         ..    24.0    22.6    23.2    24.0    3.5          4.3       1.2      7.1
Consumption                   181.6        76.4    68.4    69.7    73.8    76.7    2.7         5.4       5.7      7.4
Investment                     73.2        23.2    32.5    28.1    27.5    25.0    9.8         6.8       2.3      4.8
Exports GNFS                   24.9         3.7/b   6.0      9.6     8.7      8.1    1.6/b    8.0/b   14.1        3.2
Imports GNFS                   20.0         3.5/b   6.8      7.7    10.0      9.8    2.3/b    9.4/b    2.7        7.9
National savings               78.9        23.6/c  31.9    30.3    26.4    23.0        ..
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                  1957          1979          1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign           28.7          27.4          22.6
borrowing)
Current expenditures                          16.1          17.7          14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   +12.6         +9.7          +8.0
Capital expenditures                          11.9          15.1           8.8
Foreign borrowing /d                           0.7           0.9           1.6
Other Indicators                              1957-79   1979-82   1982-85   1985-90
/a
GDP growth rate (X)                           5.4       6.0        5.7        7.0
GDP per capita growth rate (%)                3.5       4.6        4.4        5.8
Energy consumption growth rate (x)            8.3         ..
ICOR                                          5.4        ..         ..        3.8
Marginal savings rate                         0.42        ..        ..        0.16
Import elasticity                             0.95     0.45        1.9        1.3
/a NMP basis.
7i  Goods only.
/c  GDS.
/d  Gross.



-26-                                                  ANNEX.
Page S of 6
,Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GOTP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                 Annual Growth Rates (x)
(million US$ at                            (at constant 1980 prices)
Indi.cator                     current prices)                      Actual                           Projected
1982                    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
- ..Merchandise exports              22,476                   25.5   16.8   15.9    6.2    2.6    2.0    1.0    4.0
Energy                           5,353                     ..      ..
Other primary                    5,110                     ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Manufactures                    11,356                     ..      ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Other                               657                    ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Merchandise imports               17,830                   21.7   16.7   -8.6    3.0    7.6   15.0   10.0    9.0
Food                             4,003                     ..      ..     ..      ..      ..
Petroleum                             0                    ..      ..      ..            0       0       0       0
Machinery and equipment          3,405                     ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Other                           10,422                     ..      ..      ..     ..      ..
Pri,ces
Export price index (1978-100)          ..                 100.0  115.9  119.1  114.4  109.8  113.0  117.5  124.2
Import price index (1978-100)          ..                 100.0  116.6  121.9  103.9  103.0  107.5  112.4  118.6
Terms of trade index (1978=100)         ..                100.0   99.4   97.7  110.1  106.6  105.1  104.5  104.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                   Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                               (at constant prices)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          1.6       8.0      14.8       1.9       4.0
Energy                       19.5   25.1   22.9   23.8   10.9    0             ..        ..
Other primary                34.1   28.4   24.1   22.8   24.2   23.8           ..        ..
Manufactures                 46.4   46.5   47.8   50.5   59.5   70.9           ..        ..
Other                         0       0      5.2    2.9    5.4    5.3          ..        ..
Imports                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          2.3       9.4       3.2      10.8      10.0
Food                           ..      ..   19.6   22.5   20.0   16.8          ..        ..
Energy                        0       0      0       0       0       8.2       ..       00                  0
Machinery and                25.2   27.5   24.2   19.1   26.7   25.1           ..        ..        ..        ..
equipment
Other                          ..      ..   56.2   58.5   53.3   49.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With           Share of Trade With              Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (x)   Developing Countries (X)               Planned Economies (x) /a
Direction of Trade             1978             1981         1978             1981               1978             1981
Exports                      37.3            45.9          51.6             50.2               11.1              3.9
Imports                      73.3            76.8          17.5             18.7                9.2             4.5
/a Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



-27 -                    ANNEX I
Page of 6 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                Projected
Indicator                             1979    1980    1981      1982    1983    1985    1990
estimate
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services           15,351  20,901  25,157   25,989  26,300  29,350  48,020
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.          13,658  18,492  22,027   22,476  22,150  24,420  39,330
Imports of goods and services           18,204  24,752  24,380   20,793  22,100  30,040  59,470
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.          16,212  22,049  21,047   17,830  19,010  26,230  52,760
Net transfers                              596      500     680       412     420      500     800
Current account balance                 -2,257  -3,351   1,457    5,608   4,620    -190 -10,650
Private direct investment                    -       57     265       359     400      500   1,500
MLT loans (net)                            800   1,130      416       426     400      800   6,000
Official                                 350     446      479       557     600       ..
Private                                  450      684     -63     -131    -200
Other capital                            2,054   2,555      365      -102    -400    -600   1,000
Change in net reserves ("-" -
increase)                               -597    -391  -2,503   -6,291   -5,020   -510   2,150
International reserves                   7,274   7,665  10,168   16,459   21,479
of which:  gold                        5,120   5,120   5,120    5,120    5,120
Reserves as months imports                 4.8      3.7     5.0       9.4     11.6
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements             ..
Concessional loans                        ..
DAC                                     ..
OPEC                                    ..
IDA                                      .
Other                                   ..       ..
Nonconcessional loans                     ..
Official export credits                 ..
IBRD                                     .
Other multilateral                      ..
Private                                 ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed            ..   5,433   5,785    6,058
Official                                ..
Private                                 ..
Undisbursed debt                          ..       ..
Debt service
Total service payments            ..      ..       .. .
Interest                        ..
Payments as % exports GNFS        ..      ..      5.0     7.8/a   10.0/a
Average interest rate on new
loans (Z)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)
/a  Including some early repayment of principal.



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1983)
Loan or
Credit
Number  Year      Borrower           Purpose             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2021    1981   People's Republic   University
1167              of China             Development      100.0  100.0      155.9
1261    1982   People's Republic   N. China Plain
of China             Agriculture          -   60.0       55.6
2207    1982- People's Republic   Ports                 124.0      -      124.0
of China
1297    1982   People's Republic   Ag. Ed. and
of China             Research             -   75.4       74.0
2226    1982   People's Republic   Industrial
1313             of China              Credit           40.6   30.0        70.6
2231    1983   People's Republic   Daqing
of China             Petroleum        162.4      -      162.4
2252    1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan
of China             Petroleum        100.8      -      100.8
2261    1983   People's Republic   HeilongJiang Land
1347             of China             Reclamation        35.3   45.0      80.3
-      1983/a People's Republic   Polytechnic/TV
of China             University           -   85.0       85.0
1412    1983/b People's Republic   Technical
of China             Cooperation          -   10.0       10.0
1417    1984/c People's Republic   Rubber Development          100.0      100.0
of China
Total                                   563.1  505.4   1,018.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA          563.1  505.4
Total undisbursed                       563.1  455.5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1983)
None
/a  Credit signed on October 17, 1983, but not yet effective.
7b  Credit signed on October 17, 1983, and became effective on December 21,
1983.
/c  Signed on January 5, 1984.
Notes: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a
separate report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution,
which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 5 years
(b) Project prepared by: Kunming Hydroelectric Investigation and
Design Institute (KHIDI) with the assistance of the Snowy
Mountains Engineering Corporation (SMEC)(consultants)
(c) First presented to the Bank: March 1981
First Bank mission: September 1981
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 1982
(e) Completion of negotiations: December 1983
(f) Planned effectiveness: May 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Condition of Effectiveness
(i) China's State Council shall have approved the Loan Agreement
and the Project Agreement (para. 76).
(ii) A satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement shall have been
signed between the Government and YPEPB (para. 76).
(b) Other Conditions YPEPB will:
(i)  have its annual financial statements and project expenditures
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
submitted within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(para. 50);
(ii)  include the full value of all its fixed assets and work-in-
progress in its annual financial statements (para. 53);
(iii)  take the necessary measures, including revision of electricity
rates, to produce revenues sufficient to cover its costs,
and restrict long-term borrowings (para. 55);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv) consult and review annually with the Bank its financial
performance and annual plans, current and future investment
programs and related financing arrangements including
electricity rates, government contributions and borrowings
(para. 56);
(v)  carry out a training program in accordance with arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank (para. 63);
(vi) maintain a Lubuge Project Construction Management Bureau
with appropriate staffing and authority to carry out the
works under the project (para. 66);
(vii) retain the services of engineering consultants for project
preparation, construction management and supervision
(para. 66); and
(viii) undertake a program of periodic inspection and maintenance
of the dam and associated works constructed under the
project with the assistance of independent engineering
experts whose qualifications and experience shall be
reviewed with the Bank (para. 74).



X I Z A N GC    fi                                                                               c H j rN A
C  N LD {   g.Jl                  1 ~~~-< -   :> i      LUBUGE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT|
'    J i    1     <  t 5  1~S    c    H  U  A  N             ,YUNNAN POWER SYSTEM
,,  (   .~~~~S/GV-'  iL'1'n9   \6   1   sN   i  \   ?   _  C   ..  A ~~~~~~~~~~~~ A  A  22 kV  Sub,,.,-,n
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h- P.- P -t9 M
21                                                Y,<e             w            
5t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sb- .1 C. 1-/S4t,                  .1
22^   rvometFs   2   ,JInghong  \   '   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -    | 5            22t_ |   Berwngi<r_~P - .1B-d,,
O_   r    U    o  *       ^I      t   L A O  o                                               .      /t . + 'lg~~~~~~~~~4,1
7semaresor/iutearEeSeMvo MBnY Or  +>.</  t  )DE    *    |     T         A             y            t41aG
h,U..d . ....US .Y fY  Y.IT FO DAr.d  UYh.......................    
hlv joewralonX ~ iarl rnn y M ab<sUl .U C.f X.hY @n ry.S j , R EP- <, (< . 1
M t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e -h-LsW fM ;mDFc  aeyMMs e caiS/l7  0 e



