Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7302 - ALB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 22.1 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
April 21, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Albania - Public Expenditure Support Credit
Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective April 20, 1999)
Currency Unit = Lek(e)
100 Leke = US$0.69
US$ = 145 Leke
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric system
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BFM    -              Budget Framework Memorandum
ESAF   -            Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP   -                    Gross Domestic Product
IDA    -            International Development Association
IMF   -                 International Monetary Fund
MOF   -                      Ministry of Finance
NGO   -                Non Governmental Organization
OSCE   -       Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PESP   -             Public Expenditure Support Program
UNHCR  -          United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
WFP   -                     World Food Program
WHO   -                   World Health Organization
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Directors: Pradeep Mitra, Lajos Bokros
Team Leader: Onno Riuhl



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Albania
Public Expenditure Support Credit
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Albania
Amount:                   22 1 million SDR (US$ 30 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms, with a 40-year maturity, including a 10-year
grace period
Commitment Fee:           Standard
Objectives and Description: The objective of the proposed Public Expenditure Support Credit
is to (i) help safeguard Albania's functioning public institutions
during this period of crisis so that the adopted reform agenda can
be maintained, (ii) maintain macroeconomic stabilization during
a period where serious shocks will depress orderly economic
activities, put exceptional demands on public expenditures, while
reducing possibilities for revenue collection, (iii) help monitor
and enforce an orderly public expenditure pattern during a period
of emergency, (iv) establish a vehicle for co-financing and
parallel financing for other donors willing to provide support to
Albania in support of the above objectives
Benefits:                 The major benefits of the Credit would consist of (i) restoring
and maintaining macroeconomic stability and helping to ensure
availability of non-inflationary financing for the extra-ordinary
expenditures necessitated by the crisis, (ii) providing budgetary
support to allow the Govermnent to release those expenditures
which were frozen during the initial period of refugee influx, (iii)
protecting, to the maximum extent possible, budgetary
expenditures essential to achieve Albania's long term
development objectives
Risks:                    The main risk is that hostilities in Kosovo will continue over a
protracted period of time with continued inflows of refugees into
Albania and external shock effects on Albanian economy These
risks cannot be mitigated through the proposed operation
Continued crisis conditions which cannot be addressed through
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



4
humanitarian assistance provided through other agencies, could
only be addressed through futute follow-up interventions
supported by the international donor community. Additional
risks ate the possibility of a deterioration in economic
governance and/or the potential loss of macroeconomic stability
The measures supported by the proposed Cledit, and the
upcoming Strctural Adjustment Credit, ale aimed to nmitigate
this risk by strengthening public expenditure management and
providing critical budget support
Poverty Category:         Not applicable
Rate of Return:           Not applicable
Project ID Number:        65825
Map                      IBRD 28467R
This Ciedit was prepared during a mission which visited Albania from April 9 to April 16, 1999
The mission consisted of Onno Rtihl (Team Leader), Mansour Farsad (Country Economist),
Carlos Elbirt (Resident Representative), Alma Kanani (Public Expenditure Management), and
Madalene O'Donnell (Donor Co-ordination and Transparency) Ahmed Jehani was the Legal
Counsel Ama Hartmann and Baelhadj Merghoub provided vital inputs and advice. Maria Luisa
Massutti and Marika Benchley weic instrumental in processing the operation at a very fast pace



5
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT CREDIT
FOR ALBANIA
Table of Contents
I. ALBANIA AND THE IMPACT OF THE KOSOVO CRISIS .. 6
A Country Background  ............ 6
B. Donor Support ..... . ....  ..7
C Facing a new clisis - impact of the conflict in Kosovo...  . 8
D The Government's iesponse to the crisis.              .8
E Macroeconomic impact of the crisis .                   9
II. IDA'S RESPONSE TO THE EMERGING CRISIS.                       10
II. THE PROPOSED PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT PROGRAM  .          11
A Tle Public Expenditure Support Progiam . . ......  I .. .  11
B Coordination and measures to improve transpaiency in aid distribution 15
C. Actions to be supported by the Credit               . 16
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT                    ..17
Objectives .......17
Description ..........7
Financing and burden sharing...   ....   .... . . .....  18
Implementation Arrangements...  ...18
Monitoring of the PESP. .                               18
Lessons Learned.           .... ....  18
Enivironmental Aspects ....... 19
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .                     .19
Benefits ... 19
Risks ..19
VI. RECOMMENDATION.                                             19
Annex I Lettei of Development Policy .  . .  .. .  . . ..       20
Annex II Policy Matrix  .. .    .                         .  . ... 24
Annex III Timetable of key processing steps.. . .. . . .   .    26
Annex IV Status of Bank Group Operations.... ..    . ...       .27
Annex V Key Economic Indicatols. . . . . . . .. 29
Annex VI Albania at a glance. .            .... .           .... . ....  32
Map Section   ..                            . .         ...   . . 34



6
REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT CREDIT
FOR ALBANIA
1      I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a
pioposed Development Credit for Albania foi 22 1 million SDR (US$ 30 million equivalent)
The Credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years The Credit would
assist the Government of Albania in maintaining macroeconomic and fiscal stability and
maintaining structuial reform momentum by providing budget support to the Goveniment
under a monitoring mechanism aimed at ensuring effective public expenditure management
in the developing crisis circumstances
I.     ALBANIA AND THE IMPACT OF THE KOSOVO CRISIS
A.     Country Background
2      Albania showed an impressive transition record in the early yeais of transition, Real
annual output gtowth amounted to about 9 percent of GDP between 1993-96 But in 1997,
financial pyramid schemes collapsed and Albania descended into near anarchy. The civil
disordei led to widespread looting and majol damage to buildings and infrastructure causing
severe disruptions in economic and social activities Although agricultural production was
not much affected, output disruptions were particularly sevexe in construction and industry
At the same time the loss of financial resouices in the failed pyramid schemes depressed
domestic demand Trade slowed down consideiably and foreign aid and remittances (which
were the major source of foreign exchange) dropped sharply GDP declined by ovei 7
percent in 1997
3.     A new  Government elected to power in June 1997, quickly re-established
macroeconomic control Supported by a six-month program under the IMF's Post-Conflict
Emergency Assistance Policy, the Government took important measures to reassert fiscal
control. These measures helped the Govermnent outperform the fiscal target for 1997, and
laid the groundwork for a three-year ESAF program approved in May 1998 Important
measures were taken to wind down the pytamid schemes anid to ieform the banking system
Economic recovery had begun. However, civil disturbances emerged again in September
1998 leading to a change in Government The September 1998 turnoil was short lived and
thele was no major setback in either macroeconomic stabilization or the momentum of
economic recovery. Macroeconomic targets agreed with the IMP for 1998, were broadly met.
The domestically financed fiscal deficit remained below the taigeted 6 6 percent of GDP In
addition, the implementation of prudent monetary policy kept inflation at 8.7 percent, while
the current account deficit dropped to about 6 percent of GDP The exchange rate continued
to be stable and GDP is projected to have registeied a real growth of about 9 percent in 1998



7
4.     In addition to making major progiess in re-establishing macroeconomic stability and
iesuming growth, the new Government recognizes that the economic problems and recurrent
civil unrest of the last two years aie symptoms of broader systemic ploblems, especially a
very weak state, which is unable to perform all essential state functions. Albania's weak
institutional and governance capacity, including its inability to enforce its laws and
iegulations, is caused by numerous factors, including limited resources available to the public
sector, weak and inadequately transparent accountability of public institutions, and
inadequate institutional infrastiucture  The Governments appointed after the 1997 civil
distuibances made the reforms to strengthen public institutions, and establish a transparent,
efficient and accountable state, the pillai of their program In June 1998 a major, highly
visible anti-corruption program was launched. The sttengthening of the judiciary is a priority
reform aiea Government intends to reduce public sector functions in aieas where state
activities are not essential, moving ahead with plivatization of the few remaining private
sector enterprises  Very important financial sector reform measures have already been
completed and intense and encouraging efforts to privatize the major state bank weie
underway until the influx of refugees from the war in neighboring Kosovo
B.     Donor Support
5      The donoi community has actively supported Albania since the 1997 disturbances.
IDA suppolts Albania through its ongoing portfolio of 22 operations, including investment
operations in most sectois A Rehabilitation Credit (US$ 25 million) appioved in November
1997 provided rapid assistance to reform the financial sector, wind down the pyramid
schenmes and piovide support for more efficient social protection  A Structural Adjustmient
Program, heavily focused on strengthening governance of the public institutions with major
emphasis on tianspatency and accountability measures, has been appraised in March 1999
While it is essential that all elements of this Structural Adjustment Program be implemented
as quickly as possible and while full agreement has been reached on all components of this
piogram, successful implementation of this institution building program can only be assured
if Albania's public sector can continue to function in spite of the present shocks resulting
fiom the Kosovo crisis. Albania remains in good standing with the IMF which supports
economic reform measures through a thlee-year ESAF progiam (1998-2001) The first year
review of the ESAF program was completed successfully in January 1999. A country
assistance strategy for Albania was endoised by the Board on July 30,1998 (Report 18161
ALB) It presents a central, cross-sectoral emphasis on governance and institution building
with three strategic piioiities (i) governance and institution building, (ii) sustainable piivate
sector growth, (iii) human development and poverty alleviation
6      Active donor coordination has been carried out among bilateral donors, international
financial institutions and non-Governmental Organizations.   A  fornal coordination
mechanism, the "Friends of Albania", chaired by the OSCE, integrates economic and political
coordination.  It meets regularly among local representatives in Tirana and among
international repiesentatives at meetings held in European capitals Regular cooidination



8
meetings are also convened among Washington based representatives of key doniors to
Albania
C.     Facing a new crisis - impact of the conflict in Kosovo
7      The ongoing conflict in Kosovo and the enormous flood of refugees creates an
immediate threat to the fragile institution building and structural reform program and to the
internal stability of Albania. As of April 21, 1999, around 350,000 refugees from Kosovo are
ieported to have entered Albania, with no end of the stream in sight Many refugees have
initially been housed with Albanian families all over the country, but with increasing inflow
of refugees and the low income level of Albanian families, the absorption of refugees through
families has now reached its limits Relief efforts by the international donor community are
only now gathering momentum as the filIl magnitude of the crisis has become visible to the
world
8      In addition to the inflow of refugees, military hostilities in neighboring Kosovo have
important negative impacts on the Albania economy Trade flows to Albania, investor
confidence, privatization efforts are being disrupted. Crime and illegal smuggling activities
are likely to inciease significantly Management of the iefugees will increase pressures on
the budget and external resources At the same time, the effects of the crisis aie expected to
reduce the collection of public revenues While in the future much of the relief effort foi
lefugees is expected to be undertaken and financed by international humanitarian relief
organizations, these relief efforts require significant lead time. Large amounts of budget
resources have already been expended by the Albanian authorities during the initial efforts to
assist in the relocation and assistance to refugees
9      Incieasing fiscal and external pressures risk undermining the very successful macro-
stabilization efforts undertaken by the Albania Governments since mid 1997 Moreover, the
overwhelming need to devote immediate attention to the relief effort risks having a
paralyzing effect on the functioning of Government and its reform program which could
potentially destabilize Albania once more, seriously thieatening the substantial gains
achieved in state building since the civil disturbances of 1997  It could also thteaten
important maintenance and investment projects in support of Albania's long term
development needs In a letter addressed to the World Bank on March 31, 1999, the Prime
Minister requested immediate and urgent budgetary assistance in order to help Albania in its
efforts to deal with the impacts of the crisis in Kosovo, and to maintain a basis for long termn
structural reform.
D.      The Government's response to the crisis
10     The Govermment's initial response led to a diversion of public expenditures to the
refugee crisis as international relief organizations were not positioned to respond
immediately The Government, therefore, used its own fiscal resources to provide immediate
assistance Local authorities were also forced to spend their resources to meet the needs of



g
the arriving refugees This unforeseen use of fiscal resources for relief assistance has put
immediate pressures on the budget and has ciowded out resources for essential public
functions at all levels of Government  The Government was forced to postpone or limit
budgetary expenditures in many areas Investment expenditures were frozen, the plamned
salary increase of the government employees was delayed, and limitations were imposed on
opetations and maintenance expenditures of all ministries except for public order and health.
11      The discretionary expenditure management practices that generally emeige as a
result of a crisis of this magnitude can potentially undermine financial and fiscal contiol
mechanisms and open the door for corruption and misuse of fhuds If this were to happen in
Albania, this would put at risk important gains that are being pursued in the context of the
program to be supported by the Structural Adjustment Credit, which focuses heavily on
improving governance, public sector management and judicial reform.  Long term
development objectives would also be at risk, as essential maintenance and counterpart
expenditures in investment projects would be neglected
12      Even in the early days of the crisis, the Government recognized these risks and tried
to address them. The fist priority in this context was to maintain fiscal discipline and sound
public expenditure management. An explicit decision was made to stay within the agreed
budget limits, and the funds diverted for relief were appropriated to the respective line
mninistiies according to normal procedures. End-Maich targets under the IMF ESAF program
were met However, it soon became clear that the Government could not maintain its reform
stance without additional budget assistance   Therefore, it requested support from the
intemational community not only for the relief effort, but also to help maintain momentun in
the reform piogram to which the Government remains fully committed.
E.      Macroeconomic impact of the crisis
13      The economic consequences of this clisis will be substantial and are at this point
extremely difficult to quantify. Apart from putting strains on the economic infrastructure, it
will disrupt the supply and distribution of commodities, particularly in the northern part of
the country Also, by adversely affecting the confidence of investors, the crisis could lead to
a leduction in foreign and domestic investment, thereby slowing the process of privatization
and structural reforms In addition, the geneally good progress on the stabilization front
could be disrupted as a consequence of this crisis The domestically financed budget deficit
at pre-crisis was estimated at 5 5 percent of GDP and the overall budgetary deficit at 9 7
percent of GDP Based on the assumption that the refugee flow into Albania will ieach
700,000 persons who would remain at least until the end of 1999', the oveiall budgetary
deficit could rise to 13 6 percent of GDP This is a reflection of both a short fall in revenues
and an increase in expenditures. While the revenue shortfall of $20 million would be the
This is a highei number of refugees than assumed in scenaiio A ('Piolonged Military Campaign") in the joint
IMF World Bank papel (see footnote 2), which projects an avtw age number of 417,000 lefugees in Albania
over the last three quattets of 1999 The upward adjustment in the expected numbel of refugees has been
made based upon consultations with the Government and UNHCR in lecent days



10
tesult of a disruption in tax collection and a large volume of imports of untaxed humanitarian
aid, the increase in expendituies of around $125 million would include increased budgetary
allocations necessary to relieve pressures caused by the crisis, particularly in health,
education, public order, public works and local infrastructure (Table 1, see also paras 17 to 20
below) Similarly, the current account deficit which at pre-crisis was estimated to be 8 7
percent of GDP is expected to rise to 11.5 percent of GDP in 1999 This reflects an expected
slow down in exports and a higher level of imports as a result of higher public expenditures
Overall, the projected gap in the balance of payments amounts to $150 million Therefore,
considerable foreign finanicing would be needed in the short-term to cover the budgetary
requirements and the balance of payments deficit.
II.     IDA'S RESPONSE TO THE EMERGING CRISIS
14     IDA's response to the emerging crisis is closely coordinated with the IMF in the
context of the two institutions' effort to coordinate the financial response of the international
community to the Kosovo crisis  On April 2, the World Bank sponsored an emergency
Informal Donors' Meeting on the Kosovo crisis where international financial institutions and
bilateral participants, including representatives from the affected countries, exchanged views
on the immediate impact of the crisis on the countries in the region and on on-going and
planned donor support programs. A follow-up coordination meeting for the relevant
international financial institutions was held in London on April 18 IMF and Bank staff
pi oduced a joint paper containing a pi eliminary assessment of the external financing needs as
a consequence of the Kosovo crisis2. In line with the approach outlined in this paper, IDA is
following a three-pait stategy to help Albania to respond to this crisis It consists of'
Immediate assistance through budget suipport provided under the proposed Public
Expenditure Support Credit. This approach was chosen instead of a critical imports
credit, as immediate budget support is the highest piiority in Albania to allow vital
public sector functions to continue duiing the crisis, thus preserving the structural
reforn momentum   In addition, the instrument of an adjustment operation allows
support for a package of measures to strengthen public expenditule management and
transparency
Reallocation of uncommitted funds of selected ongoing operations to redirect
project activities to areas and infrastructure needs most affected by refugees The
investment portfolio under implementation is presently being examined Reallocation
of expenditures, within the project objectives and agleements approved by the Board,
are likely to be possible undel the Housing Credit which inclludes the repair of public
2 The Economic Consequences of the Kosovo Crisis A Pieliminary Assessment of Exteinal Financing Needs
and the Role of the Fund and the Woild Bank in the Inteinational Response Piepaied jointly by the staffs of
the Inteinational Monetary Fund and the World Bank, April 15, 1999



I1
buildings (Credit 2534); the Health Services Rehabilitation Project (Cr 2659), Rural
Development Project (Credit 2680) and the Land Development Pioject (Credit 3066)
Investments within the scope of these projects will likely strengthen infiastructure
plogranis to withstand the substantial additional demand cleated by the massive
inflow of refugees Infiastructuie in the social sectors, especially primary health
facilities, school buildings and watei and sanitation systems will need to be repaired
and expanded under this situation
Special support to refugees provided from the post-conflict fund. In 1998, the
Bank's Post Conflict Fund approved a US$ I million grant in support of the 18,000
refugees which arrived in mid 1998   This giant is being implemented very
successfully by an international NGO Agreement has been reached that all remaining
funds be utilized in the boider areas where refugees from Kosovo anive. An
additional allocation of US$ 1 million was approved on April 5, 1999 This allocation
will be used to broaden the program, including the involvement of several NGOs
Participation in direct assistance to refugees is essential in ordei to provide the link
between humanitarian and development assistance, which can effectively be
peiformed by IDA (in coordination with othei bilateral and international donots),
thiough ongoing investment operations The ongoing post-conflict fund has already
pioved to be a very effective instrument in bridging this gap.
15     These pioposed interventions which attempt to help reduce the effects of the
Kosovo Crisis on Albania are consistent with the CAS strategy3 By providing uigent
budgetary support as well as assistance under ongoing investment operations, IDA can assist
in maintaining the functioning of the public sector, essential for assuring internal security and
social peace Budgetary support will help contribute to continued macro-stabilization. Such
stability is essential so that the successfl reform momentum in governance and state
building, piivate sectoi development and poverty alleviation can be maintained
In.    THE PROPOSED PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT PROGRAM
A.     The Public Expenditure Support Program
16     The Govenmnent has requested and the Bank has agreed to provide emergency
support through a Public Expenditure Support Program (PESP) The PESP has as its
objective to safeguard budgetary discipline by supporting appropriate fiscal expendituie and
revenue behavior during this crisis period, and to provide additional financial resources to the
public sector for it to continue providing essential services and maintain structural ieform
momentum   The proposed program rests on the assumption that Albania's humanitarian
relief needs should be provided by international relief organizations, but that the Government
3Pata 69 of the CAS document explicitly fotesees the possibility of an operation in iesponse to a wolsening of
the situation in Kosovo



12
of Albania will have an important role to play in coordinating and administering relief
assistance financed through the budget. This should not require a very large allocation of
domestic resources for the lelief efforts, but will require a functioning administration which
can coordinate its actions with relief organizations and be an effective part of the relief effort
In addition, the presence of the refuigees will create pressure on the budget in a number of
sectors where services for refugees are needed, but will not be provided undei the telief
effort, most importantly health care and education, maintenance of infrastructure, and internal
security Table 1 gives an overview of the original expenditures budgeted for a number of
key sectois and the estimated additional expenditures necessary because of the emergency
situation
17      Under the PESP the Government has agreed to maintain the original budgetaty
expenditure allocations as approved by Parliament In addition, the PESP supports increased
allocations to the health and education sectors, which will face larger demand as a result of
the situation The teliefeffoits will provide only goods required for providing primary health
care to the refugees Staff time in primary health care and the bulk of any secondary and
tertiary health care piovided to the refugees will have to be financed from the budget
Similarly, at least primary education will have to be provided for the many children among
the refugees The PESP will support additional budgetary allocations for these expenditures
Table 1: Expenditure Budget4 for 1999, selected sectors (in million leke)
Sectot        App? oved  % of Total     Additional  Total Budget    % of Total         Total
Budget5  Appioved  Expenditui es6  Expenditut es      Revised  EApenditul es
Budget                    pet Sector  Expendituires  as % of GDP
Health            8,056      5 4%           2,200        10,256         6 6%           1 8%
Education        14,415      9 7%           3,700        18,115         10 8%          3 3%
Public Order      6,645      4.5%            1,850        8,490          5 1%          16%
Public Works      9,346      6 3%            1,900       11,246          6 7%          2 1%
Local Gov't       2,284       1 5%          5,100         7,384         4 4%           14%
Defense           5,840      3 9%            1,200        7,040          4.3%          13%
Source                Ministry of Finance
Memoiandum Item       Total 1999 budget approved by Parliament 148,318 million leke
4 Including capital expendituies
With the exception of defense, the level of these expenditures is ptotected by measuies agieed upon undei
the Ct edit
6 Requests teceived fiom line ministties as of Apiil 19, 1999, cunently undel discussion with the IMF and
subject to velification and change



13
18      The weak capacity of the Albanian state to maintain internal security has been a
major concern of the international community supporting Albania since the 1997 civil
disturbances Internal security in Albania has remained fragile and state authoiities are often
not able to enfoice existing laws and regulations The fragile security situation has posed a
majoi impediment to orderly economic development, especially the inflow  of foreign
investment  In the present crisis there is a risk of incieasing crime which needs to be
addressed through appropriate fiscal resource allocations which will allow the public security
system to continue functioning  The provision of adequate internal security and public
order is, thetefore, essential and the PESP will support additional budgetary allocations for
these purposes. However, defense spending will remain very low even under plesent
circumstances. It will be limited to 4 3 percent of total fiscal expenditures, not counting relief
efforts can ied out by the military
19     Expenditure allocations will also be maintained to allow the judiciary system to
remain operative An important part of the state building agenda of the Government and
supported by the international donor community, including the IDA Structural Adjustment
Program, is the strengthening of the judiciary, which will allow Albania to enforce its laws
and regulations. The Government has made important efforts to put into place reforms which
will increase the efficiency and accountability of the judiciary These include such measuies
as upgrading the legal and judicial training with the opening of the Magistrate School in 1997
and the recent creation of a State Publication Office which will make laws more accessible
It also includes a ie-accreditation procedure, including testing, for judges to addiess the
immediate concerns regarding the quality of the corps of judges in the system It is essential
that the reform movement and institution building in this critical area continue to advance
even during this state of crisis, and any backsliding in reforms and agreed processes be
prevented
20      Albania has a very low level of public investment which limits its capacity to
provide essential public services necessary for sustainable development  Much of the
ongoing investment progiatn is externally financed, but it is essential that counterpart funds
already committed and approved in the ongoing budget ate not diverted to other uses, thereby
bringing the ongoing investment program to a halt. Continued improvements of basic
infrastructure (in roads, water supply, education, health, basic environmental protection), will
be all the mote important as the xefugees are putting serious strains on the existing
infrastructuie Similarly, expenditures oni maintenance of infiastructure, already at a low
level prior to the crisis, will be maintained as much as possible to prevent serious
deterioration. In addition the Govemment will have to address investment expenditure needs
for rehabilitation of buildings whewe iefugees have been placed The PESP will suppoit these
additional investment needs, and help to maintain counterpart funding for externally financed
projects
21      The anticorruption program, developed by the Government and supported by a
group of key donors, was adopted by the Council of Ministeis in August 1998 The piogiam
focuses on the following five areas ieforming public administration, modernizing the
judiciary, improving financial management and procurement, strengthening customs and



14
streamlining licensing, and increasing public awareness and participation. Since launching
the program, the Government has taken some important steps and has identified key priorities
to accelerate implementation of this program this year These include revising laws on
judicial police, establishing a functioning state publication office, improving procedures for
tax collection, establish objective recruitment of customs officers, revising the law on Civil
Service, and establishing piocedures for confirning civil servants. The Government is
committed to continue implementation of this program  In this context, the PESP will
support the Government in maintaining budgetary allocations for civil service salaries
22     Under the PESP, the Government has established a flexible and transparent
mechanism for budget formulation and monitoiing that will allow it to respond quickly to
the additional expenditure needs and cope witlh unpredictability during this crisis  The
Government has decided to addiess this situationi by following a more flexible and
transparent approach for the allocation and monitoring of budgetary resources This approach
tequires the preparation of a bi-monthly Budget Framework Memorandum (BFM) starting in
May The BFM contains three main elements: (i) a macroeconomic overview of the situation
consistent with the macroeconomic framework agreed with the IMF under the ESAF
program, (ii) budget resource envelope identifying trends in govermment revenues and
expenditures; and (iii) government priorities for addressing the emergency refugee situation
through the budget, and for financing the required expenditures  The objective of this
approach is to establish a more transparent and consultative process for discussing policy
priorities and translating the priorities into expenditure plans within a short period of time to
address urgent requests The BFM will be presented every two months for approval to the
inter-ministerial committee for economic policy The committee will establish expenditure
ceilings that would be revised in the next period At the same time, the BFM will provide a
comprehensive framework for reporting to the economic policy committee on a bi-montlily
basis, in a format consistent with the allocated budget approved by the same committee
23     Under this operation, the Government is adjusting its system of budget classification
temporaiily to provide for a more transparent and accountable identification of budgetary
resources allocated to finance the emergency needs This will be done by adding separate
expenditure categories within the existing classification Budget execution and accounting of
budget expenditures will follow the regular treasury procedures, including expenditures that
will be used to finance the emergency needs. These procedures require that every budget
transaction be authorized by the Treasury in accordance with expenditure allocation plans
prepared by the Budget Department In addition, they require that budget classification is
used for recording all budget expenditures including emergency expenditures To allow
careful monitoring of the situation, the Government will establish more frequent reporting
procedures on main budget expenditure categories that finance the additional expenditures
caused by the crisis by requiring the Treasury to report twice every month instead of the usual
monthly interval
24     Public Expenditure Tracking Study. As explained above, the PESP will provide
additional fiscal resources to allow the Government to continue providing essential public
services This is being done under difficult circumstances in a public sector that is widely



15
tecognized as still weak The procedures for public expenditure management put in place by
the Government undei the PESP are aimed at improving the efficiency and transpaxency of
the use of public funds In order to measute whether resources will be spent for the purpose
intended, the Government has agieed to implement of a Public Expenditure Tracking Study
This is a diagnostic instrument to study the effectiveness and tiansparency of public
expenditure management by tiacking selected categories of expenditure all the way to the
intended beneficiary Under the PESP, a pilot tracking study will be implemented with Bank
managed resoulces as a first step toward introducing this instrument in Albania. The pilot
will be limited in scope to the two oi three the sectors which are most affected by the current
situation, most likely health, public works and local government. The report produced under
the pilot public expenditure tacking study will be made available to the Government and the
Bank, while a summary report will be made public
B.     Coordination and measures to improve transparency in aid distribution
25     As large-scale telief efforts geared up, the Council of Ministers established an
Emergency Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister A former Deputy Prime Minister,
was appointed to head up an Emeigency Management Group staffed by key miniistiies,
UTNHCR, WFP and WHO, and other relief organizations to coordinate daily activities
26     In parallel with the Government's efforts to coordinate relief efforts, it has also
acted quickly to improve accountability and transparency in the delivery and distribution.
of in-kind assistance In doing so, the Government has iightly sought to avoid cumbersome
administrative controls that might slow the delivery of assistance Instead it has focused on
establishling mechanisms to monitor the flows of in-kind donations and to publish the
information it has compiled  These measures include the introduction of an electronic
customs sceening mechanism through the EU customs assistance mission for import of
humanitarian goods, and a system to document delivery of relief goods to the relevant local
authorities  At the local level, the delivery process is being monitoted by Management
Committees at the Prefectuie level These committees consist of one member each from the
Prefectuie, the local iepresentation of the Office of Refugees and an OSCE monitor7
27.    The Ministry of Public Information is playing an active role in compiling anid
disseminating information from the Emergency Management Gioup, the Council of
Ministers and key line ministries It issues a Government Bulletin which includes daily
updates on iefugee movements, lists of all non-governmental and international organizations
involved in ielief effoits, the full text of relevant government decisions and orders, goods
received and distiibuted by state entities and NGOs, and other information This bulletin is
being posted on a Government of Albania web-site and distributed by electronic mail
28     In addition to the coordination mechanisms for distributing in kind foreign aid, the
Government has prepared guidelines and procedures for managing the financial assistance
7The OSCE has been ieinfoiced by 70 observers fiom the Kosovo Veiification Mission



16
provided to Albania, as reflected in the Government decree no 149, dated April 2,1999 As
provided in this decree, the Government has opened a budgetary account in the Savings Bank
of Albania for depositing the financial aid donated to cover the relief efforts. The use of these
funds is authorized by the Ministry of Local Governments in response to requests received
from local govemments and in accordance with detailed implementation guidelines
(Guidelines no 4, dated April 3, 1999) These guidelines iequire that full budget anid
tieasury piocedures be used for their allocation, execution, accounting, and reporting,
according to an adjusted budget classification. In addition, the Savings Bank will report to
the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis on the amount of financial aid deposited in the
account and the balance of the account
C.     Actions to be supported by the Credit
29     The proposed Credit will support the implementation of the PESP, and in particular
the following Government actions, which have been completed prior to Boaid piesentation
* Maintain adequate macroeconomic and fiscal stability during the crisis period
Implement measures to maintain the targets agreed under the ESAF program, including
maintaining the domestically financed fiscal deficit at 5 5 percent of GDP
Budgetaiy expenditure for defense purposes (except for services provided to relief
operations) will not exceed 4 3 peicent of overall fiscal expenditures
* Ensure adequate fiscal resource allocation to safeguard essential public sector
functions
Maintain expenditure allocations as piovided in the 1999 budget for
*     Adequate provision of social services, in particular health caie and education
services,
*     Continued maintenance of public infrastructure;
*     Continued adequate financing of civil service, internal security, judicial institutions,
*     Adequate provisions of local counterpart funds for public investments
* Ensure transparent and accountable use of budgetary funds
*     Prepaxe an outline acceptable to IDA of the Budget Framework Memorandum to
provide a flexible and transparent mechanism for allocating budgetary resources bi-
monthly for the refugee ciisis starting in May, 1999



17
*     Add separate expendituie categories temporarily to the Budget classification to
provide a transparent and accountable identification of budgetary iesources
allocated to finance the emergency needs
*     Establish a monitoring mechanism for the use of budgetary funds allocated to the
relief efforts and submit biweekly reports to the Ministry of Information which
would be published for the use of the public and the donor community,
*     EEstablish a budgetary account in the Savings Bank of Albania for all financial aid
donated to the Government to cover the lelief efforts ('The Kosovo Account"),
*     Implement guidelines and procedures requiling full budget and treasury piocedures
for the allocation, execution, accounting, and reporting of funds in the Kosovo
Account.
* Improve coordination and transparency of relief program
*     iEstablish one focal point - the Emergency Management Group -- in the Government
for coordination of all international and national relief efforts,
*     Establish a customs screening and coordination process for the importation of
humanitarian aid;
4     Improve controls and piovide public teporting on the distribution of aid within
Albania,
*     Establish a database of international aid flows and make this information available
on a daily basis to the public and to donor organizations
30.    The implementation of the PESP and the evolving financing iequirements will be
monitored closely in order to assess the justification for possible co-financing support for the
operation In addition, the measuies supported by this opeiation should set the stage for a
rapid implementation of the program to be supported by the Structural Adjustment Credit,
which was apptaised just piior to the crisis Continued satisfactory implementation of the
mneasures in the PESP will be part of the conditionality for the Structural Adjustment Credit
IV.    THE PROPOSED CREDIT
31     Objectives. The pioposed Public Expenditure Support Credit would assist the
Government of Albania in maintaining macroeconomic and fiscal stability, meeting the
uigent needs of its population, and preserving momentum in the pursuit of long term
development objectives by providing budgetary support for critical public expenditures and
setting up a mechanism to monitor the public expenditure pattern during the crisis period
32     Description. The proposed Credit would provide quick-disbursing budget support
(i) to compensate for the unbudgeted expenditures incurred as a result of the massive inflow
of refugees since March 1999 and (ii) to help alleviate the budgetary pressure as a



18
consequence of increased demands on the Government and the revenue losses which will
result from the continuing crisis. The budget support provided by the Credit will disburse
through the Public Expenditure Support Program set up in response to the crisis. The PESP
will serve to monitor and enforce a priority public expenditure pattern during the crisis period
to prevent backsliding in the structural reform effort and reduce adverse impact on critical
services and growth.
33.    Financing and burden sharing. The size of the proposed Credit is based on the
assumption that the refugee flow into Albania will reach 700,000 persons who would remain
at least until the end of 1999 (see para. 13, in particular footnote 1). Incremental financing
requirements expected to result from reduced revenue collection and incremental
expenditures required to provide public services for the refugees, are estimated to amount to
US$ 150 million for the remainder of 1999. Given the uncertainty of the situation, these
estimates are preliminary and might need to be adjusted as the situation in Kosovo evolves.
The proposed Credit of $30 million equivalent covers only a small part of the total financing
requirement. Additional budgetary resources will be provided by IDA as part of the
Structural Adjustment Credit, which is expected to be presented to the Board by June 1999.
34.    Substantial co-financing of the incremental financing requirement resulting from the
Kosovo crisis is expected. Preparations for a substantial amount of budgetary support by the
European Commission are already underway. Indications of willingness to provide budget
support have also been made by the Governments of Finland and Norway. The IMF is
considering to enhance the ESAF in response to the emergency situation. The Paris Club has
agreed on a payment deferral for Albania. The World Bank, jointly with the EU, intends to
chair a donor meeting for Albania in the month of May to seek support in these exceptional
circumstances. Should further financing become necessary in the future, the proposed Public
Expenditure Support Program presents a suitable instrument for co-financing for other
donors.
35.    Implementation Arrangements. The Credit will be released in a single tranche
upon effectiveness. There are no effectiveness conditions. Standard auditing provisions will
apply.
36.    Monitoring of the PESP.  The monitoring of the Government's compliance with
the measures contained in the PESP will take place in the context of specific supervision
missions for this Credit and for the Structural Adjustment Credit. Continued satisfactory
implementation of the measures in the PESP will be part of the conditionality for the
Structural Adjustment Credit.
37.    Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. The proposed
operation follows, in principle, the approach adopted in the Albania Rehabilitation Credit (P-
7196-ALB) which provided quick disbursing support after the 1997 civil disturbances. This
program was very effectively implemented and helped to quickly recover the reform
momentum. In contrast to the Rehabilitation Credit, which provided support only after the
civil disturbances had ended, the present rapidly unfolding crisis situation does not permit to



19
wait until the situation settles down. With this in mind, the Credit has been designed to allow
for subsequent co-financing by bilateral donors in order to bridge the time until the conflict
ends. A Structural Adjustment Credit with a comprehensive reform agenda has already been
appraised and is ready to be negotiated, as soon as conditions permit.
38.    Environmental Aspects. The Credit is expected to have no significant impact on
the environment and is therefore rated as a Category C project.
V.     BENEFITS AND RISKS
39.    Benefits. The major benefits of the Credit would consist of: (i) restoring and
maintaining macroeconomic stability and containing pressures on the budget; (ii) providing
budgetary support to allow the Government to release those expenditures which were frozen
during the initial period of refugee influx; (iii) by maintaining the fiscal resource base
providing continued functioning of the public sector which will allow reform dynamics to
resume as soon as the crisis situation stabilizes.
40.    Risks. The main risk is that hostilities in Kosovo will continue over a protracted
period of time with continued inflows of refugees into Albania and external shock effects on
Albanian economy. These risks cannot be mitigated through the proposed operation.
Continued crisis conditions which cannot be addressed through humanitarian assistance
provided through other agencies, could only be addressed through future follow-up
interventions supported by the international donor community. Additional risks are the
possibility of a deterioration in economic governance and/or the potential loss of
macroeconomic stability. The measures supported by the proposed Credit, and the upcoming
Structural Adjustment Credit, are aimed to mitigate this risk by strengthening public
expenditure management and providing critical budget support.
VI.    RECOMMENDATION
41.    I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington D.C.
April 21, 1999



Annex I
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1. The crisis in Kosovo has created enormous pressures on Albania, in particular as a
consequence of the flood of refugees that have arrived in Albania since March 24,
1999. As of April 14, 1999, around 300,000 refugees from Kosovo are reported to
have entered Albania, with no end of the stream in sight. Many refugees have
initially been housed with Albanian families all over the country, but with increasing
inflow of refugees and the low income level of Albanian families, the absorption of
refugees through families has reached its limits. While we would like to welcome all
refugees from Kosovo that seek shelter in Albania and look forward to the assistance
of international relief organizations, the arrival of such a large number of refugees is
posing a big burden on our economy. We hope that in due course, the international
relief effort can help us in providing care for the daily needs of the refugees.
However, the large refugee community will strain our already fragile infrastructure
and social services, which will put pressures on our budgetary resources. This could
endanger the proper functioning of important public services in Albania.
2. We are determined - even in these difficult times - to continue with our reform
agenda. This means foremost, building strong public institutions, able to perform the
necessary public sector functions.   Our objective is to strengthen public
administration, put in place an effective judiciary system, strengthen internal security,
maintain efforts to combat corruption, continue with reforms in the financial sector
and assure sound macroeconomic policies. Over the last months, we have been
supported by the international community in this effort and have already agreed with
the World Bank on a Structural Adjustment Program in support of this agenda. It is
our intention to continue fully with this reform program and to implement all
measures agreed upon under the SAC program. We look forward to continued
support from the World Bank in this challenging course.
3. The economic consequences of the Kosovo crisis will be substantial. Apart from
putting strains on the economic infrastructure, it will disrupt the flow of trade and the
supply and distribution of commodities in the country. Also, by adversely affecting
the confidence of investors the crisis could lead to a reduction in foreign and domestic
investment, thereby slowing down the process of privatization and structural reforms.
In addition, the generally good progress on macroeconomic stabilization could be
disrupted. While so far we have maintained stability even during our initial response
to the crisis, it quickly became clear that the present situation would not allow us to



continue working in the agreed framework without putting our program of structural
reforms at risk. To prevent that, our Government is seeking IDA's support for the
Public Expenditure Support Program (PESP).
4. As described in the following paragraphs, the PESP will support the Government in
achieving the following immediate objectives:
a. Maintaining adequate macroeconomic and fiscal stability;
b. Ensuring adequate fiscal resource allocations to safeguard essential public sector
functions;
c. Ensuring a transparent and accountable use of budgetary funds;
d. Improving coordination and transparency of the relief program.
A. Maintaining adequate macroeconomic and fiscal stability
5. To allow a continuation of our stabilization policy in the current circumstances, we
are working with the IMF on a revision of the three year ESAF program. We are
fully committed to reaching agreement on a revised program as soon as possible, as
well as to the implementation of such program. To maintain fiscal stability, we
intend to limit the domestically financed fiscal deficit to 5.5 percent of GDP.
Budgetary expenditures for defense, other than refugee relief worktvdone by the
military, will not exceed 4.3 percent of overall fiscal expenditures.
B. Ensuring adequate fiscal resource allocations to safeguard essential public sector
functions
7. The main objective of the PESP is to maintain the previously agreed allocations in the
1999 budget for key public services. This includes in particular allocations to the
health and education sector, which have very low resource allocations even in non-
crisis situations. In addition, providing adequate allocations to the police to maintain
internal security is essential. Although the situation was improving, internal security
in Albania has remained fragile and state authorities still at times face difficulties in
enforcing existing laws and regulations. In the present crisis situation there is risk of
increasing crime which needs to be addressed through appropriate fiscal resource
allocations which will allow the public security system to continue functioning.
8. Albania has a very low level of public investment which limits its capacity for
providing essential public services necessary for sustainable development. Much of
the ongoing investment program is externally financed, but it is essential that
counterpart funds already committed and approved in the ongoing budget will not be
diverted to other uses, thereby bringing the ongoing investment program to a halt.
Continued improvements of basic infrastructure, will be all the more important as the
refugees stream will put serious strains on the existing infrastructure. Similarly,
expenditures on maintenance of infrastructure, already at a low level prior to the
crisis, will have to be maintained as much as possible to prevent serious deterioration.
Allocations for domestic investments and counterpart funding for externally financed
investments will therefore be maintained.



9  In addition, the presence of the refugees will create piessure on the budget in a
number of sectors where services for iefugees are needed, but will not be provided
undei the relief effort The relief efforts will not finance staff time in primary health
care and the bulk of any secondary and tertiary health care provided to the refugees
will also have to be financed from the budget Similatly, at least primary education
will have to be provided for the many children among the refugees These additional
needs, and an anticipated revenue shortfall as a consequence of the crisis situation,
both in taxes and in customs revenues, justify the provision of direct budget support
provided under the PESP
C. Ensuring a transparent and accountable use of budgetary funds
10 The Government has established a flexible and transparent mechanism for budget
formulation and monitoring that will allow it to iespond quickly to the additional
expenditure needs and cope with the unpredictability in this crisis situation This
approach requires the preparation of a bi-monthly Budget Framework Memorandum
(BFM) starting in May The BFM will be presented every two months for approval to
the inter-ministerial committee for economic policy It will establish expenditure
ceilings that would be revised in the next period. This appioach will allow the
government to rationalize pet iodically on the use of limited fiscal resources.
11 In addition, we have piepared guidelinles and procedures for managing the finatncial
assistance provided to Albania The Government has opened a budgetary account in
the Savings Bank of Albania for depositing the financial aid donated to cover the
relief efforts  The use of these funds is authorized by the Ministry of Local
Governments in response to requests received from local governmenits and in
accordance with detailed implementation guidelines. These guidelines require that
full budget and treasury procedures be used for their allocation, execution,
accounting, and reporting, according to an adjusted budget classification. In addition,
the Savings Bank will report to the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis on the
amount of financial aid deposited in the account and the balance of the account.
12 In order to assess whether resources will be spent for the purpose allocated, the
Government intends to implement with the World Bank a pilot Public Expenditure
Tracking Study. This is a diagnostic instrument to assess the transparency of public
expenditure management by tracking selected categories of expenditure all the way to
tire intended beneficialy  The pilot study will be limited in scope to a few of the
sectors which are most affected by the current situation, to be determined in
consultation with the World Bank The Government will make available to the public
a summary of the ieport produced under this exercise
D. Improving coordination and transparency of the relief program
13 In parallel with our efforts to coordinate relief efforts, we also acted quickly in taking
steps to improve accountability and transparency in the delivery and distribution of
in-kind assistance In doing so, we have tried to avoid cumbersome administrative
controls that might slow the delivery of assistance  Instead, we focused on
establishing mechanisms to monitor the flows of in-kind donations and to publish the



information it has compiled These measures include the intioduction of an electronic
customs screening mechanism with the assistance of the EU customs assistance
mission for import of humanitarian goods, and a system to document deltivety of
relief goods to the ielevant local authorities At the local level, the delivery ptocess is
being monitored by Management Committees at the Prefecture level   These
committees consist of one member each from the Prefecture, the local repiesentation
of the Office of Refugees and an OSCE monitor
14 Finally, in order to achieve maximum transpalency, the Ministiy of Public
Information is playing an active iole in compiling and disseminiating infoimation
fiom the Emergency Management Group, the Council of Ministeis and key line
ministries It holds a daily press conference, accompanied by officials fiom different
miniistries It issues a Government Bulletin which includes daily updates on refugee
movements, lists of all non-governmental and infeinational organizations involved in
relief efforts, the full text of relevant government decisions and olders, goods
received and distributed by state entities and NGOs, and other information This
bulletin is made available in English and is posted on a Government of Albania web-
site and distributed by electronic mail
15 We are convinced that support for the above set of measures will allow us to continue
to pursue of our long term development objectives We appreciate your support
Sin' reyy1YKjjsQ4
'ii
,. ;~~~~~~~
Andatas Al r
Minister        e
l'irana, April 16, 1



Annex II
Policy Matrix
Policy Objectives          Measures adopted by Board         Follow-up measures
I. Maintain adequate       Implement measures to maintain the    Continue full
macroeconomic and fiscal   taigets agieed undei the ESAF program,    implementation of the
stability during crisis    including maintaining the domestically  ESAF progi am as
period                     financed fiscal deficit at 5 5 pei cent of  agreed with the IMF
GDP
Budgetary expenditures foi defense
purposes (except fox services piovided to
relief opexations) will not exceed 4 3
percent of overall fiscal expenditures
II. Ensure adequate fiscal   Expenditure allocations to be maintained at Quarterly zeporting on
resource allocation to     least at levels approved in the 1999 budget  budget execution
safeguard essential public   fol
sector functions            * Social services, in pai ticular health
care and education
* Maintenance of public infiastructuxe
* Civil seivice, internal security, and
judicial institutions
* local counterpart funds for public
investments
m. Ensure transparent and   Pi epaxe an outline acceptable to IDA of    Submit to the inter-
accountable use of         the Budget Framework Memorandum to   ministexi al committee
budgetary funds             provide a flexible and transparent   for economic policy a
mechanism for allocating budgetary   Budget Framework
iesources bi-monthly staTfing in May,  Memorandum for the
1999                                 upcomning periods
Add separate expenditure categories
temporarily to the Budget classification to
provide a tiansparent and accountable
identification of budgetary resources
allocated to finance the emeigency needs



Annex II
Policy Matrix
Policy Objectives          Measures adopted by Board       Follow-up measures
Establish a monito; ing mechanism for the  Implement public
use of budgetary funds allocated to the    expenditure thacking
relief efforts and submit biweekly repoits  study and make a
to the Ministry of Information which  summary of the report
would be published fo; the use of the  on this study available
public and the donor community      to the public
Establish a budgetary account in the
Savings Bank of Albania for all financial
aid donated to the Government to cover
the relief effoits ("The Kosovo Account")
Implement guidelines and piocedures
xequiiing full budget and tieasury
procedures for the allocation, execution,
accounting, and repo;ting of funds in the
Kosovo Account
IV. Improve coordination   Establish one focal point - the Emeigency  Maintain cooidination,
and transparency of relief    Management Gioup -- in the Government  monito; ing and
program                    fo; coordination of all international and    tansparency
national ielief effoits             pioceduies for the
entire emei gency
Establish a customs sc;eening and   pe; iod
coo;dination piocess for the importation
of humanitaiian aid
Impiove controls and piovide public
repoiting on the dishtibution of aid within
Albania
Establish a database of international aid
flows and make this information available
on a daily basis to the public and to donor
organizations



Annex III
ALBANIA
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING STEPS
(1)  Time Taken to Prepare           18 days
(2)  Project Prepared by             Government, with World Bank assistance
(3)  Operations Committee            Apt it 7, 1999
(4)  Appraisal                       Aptil ll, 1999
(5)  Negotiations                    April 15, 1999
(6)  Boaid Presentation              May 6, 1999
(7)  Closing Date:                   Septembet 30,2000



Annex IV, page I of 2
Generated- 4/21,99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Albania
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Apr-99
Difference Between
exoectec
OrLqina- Amount in USS MLllions                      and actual
Fisca_                                                                                                                                     disbufsements a,
Project CD    Year                 Borrower                    -Prpose
IBRD         IDA      Cancellat_ons  Undisbursed         OrI3    Ft-ar Rev' d
Number ot Closed Prz,ects: -
Active Prc1ects
A-PE-51309       1999   GOVT  OF ALBANIA IJCOSBNITY WOR'9:S                                           0 30        9 00         0 30               8 32         0 00         0 03
AL-PE-408:8      1998   GOVERN1MENT OF ALBA.CTA            DURRES PORT                                C 00       17 00         0 DO              22 09         5 19         C 00
AL-PE-43975      1998   M-NISTRY OF COS'TRUCTIOM           LAND DEVELOPMENT                           0 00       -0 D0         0 00               9 68         -            C 00
AL-PE-.5312      _998   COVERNSMENT OF ALBANIA             HEALTH RECOVERY                            0 C0       1, 00         0 C0              16 71         2 68         0 0C
AL-PE-31602      I998   I_NISTRY OF FINANCE                PR:VATE INDUSTRY R-C                       3 00       10 25         0 Co               8.22         8 28         0 00
AL-PE-54384      1998   ALBANIA                            RECOVERY PROG. TA                          0 00        5 Co         0 00               3 -E         1 13         0 33
AL-PE-34181      1996   REPUJBLIC OF ALBANIA               URBAN WORKS & MICRO                        0 D0        4 00         0 30                  41 -4                  0 00
AL-P34491        19ie   REP'BLIC OF ALBAN,A                POWER TRANSM. & _IS0                       C 00       29.50         0 00              19,50        _E 12         C 00
AL-PE-35"8'      1996   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                AGROPROCESSING DEVEL                       0C 00                    ( 30  0 00         2 05         2.3-         0 00
AL-PE-36060      1996   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                NATIONAL ROADS                             0 00       2_ 00         0 00              19 57         8 38         0 00
AL-PE-82D:       1996   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                FORESTRY                                   O 00        8 00         3 CC               E 15         1.2-         0 00
AL-FE-82'3       1995   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                HEALTH 5ERVICES RERA                       0co        12.40         0 00C                 17        6-,5         0 00
AL-PE-826T       1995   REPUBLIC OF ALBMAIA                RURAL ROADS                                0 00       1E Co         0 00               2 -7         2 3E         0 00
AL-PE-8270       1995   REPUBLIC OF ALBiAN-A               IRRIGATION RSHABIL-T                       0 00       13  C0        0 00                  16       -1 82         0 00
AL-PE-8272       _995   REPUBL-C OF ALBACOCA               TAX A MLIN. NODERNIZ.                      0 00         4 OC        0 330               .71         1 62         0 00
AL-PE-8273       _995   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                RURAL DEVELOPMENT                          0 00        6 00         0 00                  6C         .56         0 00
AL-PE-825Z       :994   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                IABOR MARKET DEVELOP                       C 00        5 43         0 00                  6-          58         0 00
AL-PE-8260       -994   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                DURRES WACER SUPPLY                        0 00       1: 63         0 00               3.82         1.6C         0 00
AL-75-8265       I9V4   RESP'JLIC OF ALSANIA               SOCIAL SAF-TY NET                          3 00        5 50         3 0C                  46         .34         0 00
A-L-PE-8266      199t   REPUBLIC OF ALSANIA                0OUSING4                                   3 0C       1E 00         0 0C                  91          .32        - 09
AL-PS-E269       19'.  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                 SCHCOL RERA'. AND CA                       0 00        9 6C         0 00               _ 10          .51         C 00
AL-PE-82 8      1993   REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                TRANSPORT/INFRASTRUC                       0 00       8 00         0 00                  6E           1'        0 D0
Total                                                                                                 0200      253.35         C 00             131.C3        59 55         - 09
Active Prr-.ctn n       ltsect Pro ects          Iteal
Total Disbursed (IBRD and I'A)                    117 25               112 12              230.2"
of winch has been repaid.                    0 00                 0 00                 0 30
Tctal now hael  by CBR- and IDA.                  253.25               112.41              3E5 2
Annont scld                                         0 0C                 3 00                 0 00
Of which repaid                                  C 00                0 00                 0 00
Total Unaisoursen                                 13: 03                   70               121.72
a Intenced dssDursemrenzs to date Mn_nus actual disoursements to cate as prz.ected at appra-sal.
Bote.
D:snO;rseMens cata is unnated at one end Of tne filrst week of the mcon!:n anc is z:rrently as of 31-r-99
Generated by the Operations hifornation System (O0S)                                                                                                                                       Page I



Annex IV, page 2 of 2
Albanlia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Poi tfollo
As of 28-Feb-99
(rn IJS Dollal Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IPc                              IFC
FY Appi oval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Pat tic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                   AAP                     000   2850    000    000    000    5 11    000    000
1999                   SEF Ehotech              1 20    0 00    0 00    0 00    1 20    0 00    0 00    0 00
Total Poitfoijo                      1 20   28 50    0 00    000    1 20    5 11    0 00    0 00
Appiovals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eguit   Quas   Pat tic
1998                   PATOS MARINZA          30 00    0 00    0 00   50 00
Total Pending Conmmitment           30 00    0 00    0 00   50 00
Geneiated by thc Opcrations Infotmation System (OIS) on 4/21/99



Annex V
Page 1 of 3
Albania - Key Econoomic Indicators
Estimate    Ptojected
Inidicator               1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
National accoants
(as % GDP at cu i eut
mai ket pilIces)
Gloss dornistic product                    100 0   100 0    100 0   100 0   100 0    100 0
Agficulturc                               55 9    55 4    62 6    60 9    58 6      56 5
Industiy                                  21 3    21 1    18 2    12 3      12 8    13 5
Seivices                                  22 7    23 5     19 2    26 9    28 6     30 1
Total Consumption                          1007   1068    1091    1066    1032        997
Gioss domestic fixed                        21 3    20 5    16 0    16 0    20 1    20 2
investment
Goveinment invcstnient                     8 5     4 5      4 0     5 0     6 8      6 0
Private investment                        128    160       120    11 0      133     143
(inclides inci ease in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)3                             13 7    13 7    11 8     8 8      9 0     10 3
Impoits (GNFS)                             35 7    41 0    36 9    314       32 2     30 2
Gioss domestic savings                      -0 7    -6 8     -9 1    -6 6    -3 2      0 3
Gioss national savingsb                     152    115       41       99      87      122
Memo, andumn items
Gross domestic pioduct                     2422   2689    2292   3059    3774    4121
(US$ million at ctu tent
piiccs)
Rcal annual giowtli iates
Gross domestic ptoduct at                8 9%    9 1%   -7 0%    8 0%    80%       8 0%
maiket pi ices
Gross Domestic Incomne                   9 0%    8 9%    -7 1%   10 0%   12 5%     79%
Real annual pcr capita
Gtossdomesticproductat                   73%    75%    -80%    69%         71%      71%
mzarket pi ices
Total consumption                        0 4%   15 9%   -7 7%    8 4%    5 5%       3 4%
Piivate consumption                      -0 6%   18 2%   -6 3%    9 9%     5 8%     3 0%
Public finance
(as % of GDP at cut ient pi ices)'
Current ievenues                           23 9    18 3    16 9    20 3    20 6      21 7
Current expenditures                       25 8    25 8    25 4    25 6    27 4      23 7
Current fiscal surplus t+)                 -1 9    -7 5     -8 5    -5 3    -6 8     -2 0
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditute                         8 5     4 5     4 0      51      6 7      6 0
Ovcrall deficit (-)                       -10 4   -12 1    -12 6   -10 4    -13 6    -8 0
Domiestically financed deficit              6 6    11 0     108      6 4     5 5      4 3



Annex V
Page 2 of 3
Albania - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate    Ptojected
Indicator                1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Balance of Payments
(USsm)
Exports (GNFS)a                           330 8   369 6   269 5   268 0   340 0   425 0
Merchandise FOB                        205 0   229 0    167 0   205 0   235 2    290 0
luipoits (GNFS)V                         864 8  1104 6   842 5   960 0  1215 0   1245 0
Merchandise FOB                        679 0   921 0   685 0   826 0  1070 0   1078 0
Resource balance                        -534 0  -735 0   -573 0  -692 0   -875 0   -819 9
Net current transfeis                    326 6   427 5   250 0   440 0   390 0   430 0
(including official curent tiansfers)
Current account balance                  -176 0  -245 0   -276 0  -187 0   -429 0   -332 0
(after official capital giants)
Net private foreign direct                89 (    97 0    42 0    45 0    43 0    100 0
investment
Long-term loans (net)                     73 0   109 0    61 0   107 0    138 0    132 0
Official                                102 0   103 0    60 0   107 0    138 0    132 0
Private                                 -290       20      1 0     00       00       00
Other capital (lict, including            40 0    82 0   200 0   106 0      234    123 0
eirors and omissions)
Clhange in reservesd                     -26 0   -43 0    -27 0   -71 0    14 0    -23 0
MIemot andtrs itenis
Cunent account balance (% of              -73%   -9 1%  -12 0%   -6 1%  -11 5%    -8 1%
GODP at cnun ent market prices)
Resouice balance (% of                   -22 0%  -27 3%  -25 0%  -22 6%  -23 2%   -19 9%
GDP at cunent market prices)
Official reserves (months of imports)        3 4     3 1     4 5     4 7      3 0      3 8
Real annual giowth iates (1993 prices)
Metchandiseexports                       377%   12 4%   -213%   133%    138%    196%
Metchandise imports                       7 3%   35 4%  -20 0%    4 6%   25 7%    -I 8%
Monetary indicators
M2/GIDP (at current market prices)        47 8    55 0    58 0     51 7    50 3    49 9
Growth of M2 (%)                          38 2    25 6     -1 0    -1 1      3 8      6 8
Private sector c1 edit/GDP (%)             0 5      0 9     0 6      1 2     1 4      1 5
Price indices( 1993 =100)
Merchandise exports                       99 8   111 7    147 5   154 8    156 9    160 9
Merchandiseiriports                       986   1113    1475   1548    1569    1609
Melchandise terms oftiade                 101 2   1004    10010   1000    1000    1000
Realexchangerate(LCUIJUS$)f               1379   134 1    1226   1470   1328    1343
Real interest ,atesr                      6 8%    8 7%     l 8%    7 6%    9 3%     9 5%
Consumer price index (% growth)           60%   174%    42 1%    87%       70%      5 0%
GDP deflator (% growth)                   9 8%   14 6%   29 7%   20 9%    9 1%      4 6%
a "GNFS" denotes "goods and noiifactor scevices "
b  Includes net unrequited tansfels excluding official capital grants
c  Central govemment only
d  Includes use of IMF jesources
e "LCU" denotes "local curtency units " An increase in LCUIUS$ denotes depreciation
f Calculated based on 12-month T-bill iates



Annex V
Page 3 of 3
Albania - Key Exposure Indicators
Estimate    Piojected
Indicatni             1995    1996    1997    1998    1 999    2000
Total debt outstanding and            710      751      768     882    1025    1149
disbuised (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbwusciicnts (US$m)r           -105       40       85     114      143      124
lotal debt seivice (TDS)                7       34       48      17       27       34
(US$1n)
Debt and debt seivice indicatois
(%)
TDO/XGSb                           1442    1191      96f6   1169    1410    1333
TDO/GDP                             29 3     27 9    33 5     28 8     27 2     27 9
JDS/XGSb                             15      5 3      6 0      22       3 7     4 5
IBRD exposuie indicatois (%)
IBRD DS/public DS'                  N/A      N/A     N/A      N/A      N/A      N/A
IDA TDO(US$rn)                       109     139      155      229      309     354
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                 0        n        0        0      12        0
Equity and quasi-equity               0        0        0      S l        0       0
MIGA
MIGA gualanitees (US$m)               0        0        0        0        0       0
a Includes public and publicly guai anteed dcbt, plivate nonguatanteed, use of IMF ciedits and nct sh
teim capital
b "XGS" denotes cxpoi ts of goods aid sci vices, iicluding woi keis' icmittatnces
c "N/A" denotes nion-applicable



Albania at a glance                                                             Annex VI
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central     Lor-
Albania      Asia  Income       Development damond*
1997
Pcpruiaiti4n, mid-year (millions)                      33       476      2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (AUas melhod, IUS$)                    751      2,320      350
GNP (Ailas method US$ billions'                        25 6    t oa       722
Average annual growth. 19914g7
Populationr (%I                                        03        02        21      GNP                              Gross
La6br force (%)                                        0 8       0 5       2       GNP
Per                            pmr
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (96 of population behownafrcnafpovertyh)       20
Urban population (56 of total population,              38         67       28
Life expectane) at birth (years,                       71         69       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Wive births)               33         25       78
CNICd malnutrition (%of children under 5)                                  81                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (f7 of populatiolni                                    71
IlItearacy (f. of population age 15+)                                      47
Gross;Pmary enro -inent (0 of schoed-age populaton)    88        92        91             -Albania
Maie                                                                    1G0             -Low-income group
Fenale                                                                   81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1988      1996      1997
Economic ratos*
GDP (US$ billfcrsl                                     22        27        2 3
Gross domestic invesment/GD?                          30 9      20 5      12 2
ExporlaofgoodsandservireslGDP                         151       137       113                     Trade
Gross domestic savingsJGDP                            30;S      -6 8     -13 2
Gross national savings/GDP                                      11 5       01 t                       .
Current account balance/GOP                           -0 1      -9 0     -120      Domestic          Ise
Interest pz>ments/GDP                                  00        05        09      Savngs                        Investment
Total deb'VGDP                                                  25 0      21.0 0
Total debt sernicaexports                                        314      11 9
Present value of debm'GDP                                       28 2
Present value of debt/exports                                   87 7
Indebtedness
197-88  1987-97     1998       1997   1998-02
(aetrage annua growth)
GDP                                 20       .19       91       -7 0       75             -     Albania
GNP jer capita                                2 2      79       -8 2       64                   Low-income group
Expots of goods and servces                 183       42 4     -21 3      28 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988      1998      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (/6)
(% o! GOPJ)o
AgrIculture                                           34 0      554       62 6     3
Industry                                             44 2       211       182      200
Manufacturing                                                                    joo
Services                                              218       23 5      19 2
Private consumption                                   60 2      941      102 6     100    92 9   3 S   4   95   96
General govemment consumption                          9 3      126      '106               -    D            GOP
Imports of goods and servlces                         15 5      41 0      37 2
197648  1987-97       1998      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (5)
(average annual grosth
Agriculture                                   28       57        81        50      300
Industry                                      1 9    -12 0       7 7     -19 4     200
Manufacturing
Services                                      12      -13       129      -242      1Q-0
Private consumptlon                                    62       199       -1 3      o
General government consumption                        -5 0       2 6     -23 9                  53   94   D9 -
Gross domestic investment                    0 1      20 7       71      146 7     00
mports of goods and services                          21 1      27 6     -176               -Exprts    c*Ins
Gross national product                                 2 5       91       -7 1
Note 1997 data are preliminary estimates
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1998      1997      Inflation (.)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           250
Consumer prices                                                   127       332      200
Implicit GDP deflator                                  -24        148       297      10D
Government finance                                                                   sog
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                   a
Current revenue                                        487        183       174              92   93   04    es   96   07
Current budget balance                                 25 0       -7 5      -8 2             -     GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                -0 1      -11 9     -12 O    .
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976      1980      1998      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                     311       229       167      10OD
Minerals and fuels                                                39        46      Soo
Food, beverages, and tobacco                                      25        18
Manufactures                                                     152        99      600
Total imports (cef)                                     317       921       685       400
Food                                                             323       164
Fuel and energy                                                   50        71      200
Capital goods                                                    204        99
Export price index (199s6=f00)
Import price index (1995=00)                                                                  2 ExpDrts     i Imports
Terms of trade (1 995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                                 _                 _
1976     1986       1996     1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio %)
(LASS millions)
Exports of goods and services                           327       370       270                  -
imports of goods and servlces                           336      1104       646
Resource balance                                         -9       -734     -576 
Net income                                                0        64        51
Net current transfers                                             428       2S2      a0
Current account balance                                   3       -242     -273      40
Financing items (net)                                     2       290       294      so
Changes in net reserves                                   1        -48      -21      so
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ mgilIons)                            323       342
Conversion rate (DEC, localflJS$)                       80       104 5     1490
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1990      1997
(VS$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 IUS$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                               672      706
IBR                                                               0         0                     : 48
IDA                                                             137       148                                  B'148
Total debt service                                                  29       39
IBRD                                                              0         0
IDA                                                                1        1
Composition of net resourm flows                                                        F: 252                        C: 55
Official grants                                                  77        77
Official credItors                                               83        46                                       :16
Private creditors                                                 2         -1
Foreign direct investment                                        97        42
Portfolio equity                                                   0        0                               E:1187
World Bank program
Commitments                                                      63        30     A IBRD                         E Bilateral
Disbursementr                                                    32        19      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                                               0        0      C-IMF                         G - Short-term
Netflows                                                         32        19
Interest payments                                                  I        I
Net transfers                                                    31        18
Development Economics                                                                                                   9129/98



MAP SECTION



IBRD 28467R
18',30'  * /9,00'                                      19'30         /             2000'                       221 00'
It    ~~~FED.   RER    0    YUGOSLAVIA
CR ATI                                                                                            (SERBIA  MO  TENEGRO)
42'3f                                                                                                                                                                42'30'
o     SELECTED CITIES -      -
*     DISTRICTCETS-
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
-NATIONAL ROADS
~--RAILROADS
- OtDSTRICIT ]BOUNDARIES
-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Vor"  TIR                                   ~~MACEDONIA
4P00,~ ~ ~ ~ 20
-        -            K~~~~~~~Dolr
co&,m0rfrol0suc'A--dQ -r  a
V                  LIHUAIA 
'SWIlL   ~    AUSTD        T/               FD
Al'-.    *..,,.    HUNGARY,
ILY(SRBMHT/BULGARIAS N
GERMSAN       I     ~       ERETJJR
POLAND~ ~ Se
X ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     -
.IIU  CZECHt'                                                                                                                                          21W



