Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22252-AL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-3 1970)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.1 MILLION
TO ALBANIA
FOR A
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT CREDIT
June 27, 2001
Private and Financial Sectors Development Unit
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1999)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek I = US$ 0.69
US$ 1 = Lek 145
ALBANIA
FISCAL YEAR
January December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ESAF          -     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP           -     Gross Domestic Product
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA           -     International Development Association
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
PRSP          -     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC           -     Structural Adjustment Credit
USAID         -     United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:    Khaled Sherif/Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Program Team Leader:    Greta Minxhozi/Hormoz Aghdaey



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     5
6. Sustainability                                                                         5
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        6
9. Partner Comments                                                                       7
10. Additional Information                                                                7
Annex 1. Key Perfonnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      8
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     10
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     11
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     12
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     13
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        14
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P065825                                       Project Name: PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT
Team Leader: Greta Minxhozi                               TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR T pe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PUBLIC EXPENDITURE SUPPORT                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-31970
Country/Department: ALBANIA                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/05/1999                              Effective: 05/13/1999         05/13/1999
Appraisal:  04/07/1999                               MTR:
Approval:  05/06/1999                              Closing: 09/30/2000          09/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA/Ministry of Finance
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes Linn
Country Manager.     Christiaan J. Poortman                    Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:      Paul Siegelbaum                           Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:   Hormoz Aghdaey                           Onno Ruhl
ICR Primary Author:   Amtraud Hartmann
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=High]y
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome. S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Tine: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Public Expenditure Support Credit was designed during the very early stages of the Kosovo
hostilities, in April 1999, when Albania experienced daily inflows of 10,000-20,000 refugees from
Kosovo, and its public finances and institutions came under severe pressure to provide public
services to these refugees. At the height of the Kosovo Crisis in May 1999, Albania provided
shelter to 450,000 refugees, equivalent to about 14 percent of Albania's population. International
humanitarian relief was being mobilized but at slow speed, and much of the humanitarian aid
assistance arrived towards the end of the hostilities. The authorities had already agreed to a
package of institutional and budgetary reform measures which were to be supported under a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), which had been appraised in early March 1999. The SAC
was, however, put on hold for several months since it was very unlikely that a number of
structural reform measures, such as privatization of banks and state-owned enterprises, could be
implemented during the hostilities. Moreover, the immediate public financing requirements
caused by the crisis - at least until humanitarian aid finally arrived - risked undermining public
expenditure management measures, which were under implementation at the time. At risk also
was the continued implementation of the transparency measures to reduce corruption in the public
sector. These measures had been approved in August 1998 and were to become a pillar of the
Government's institutional reform program.
The objective of the Credit was to provide immediate budgetary assistance to prevent a
derailment of the ongoing public expenditure and public management reform program. While
much of the relief assistance was expected to be eventually financed by international humanitarian
assistance, it was evident that Albania's public treasury had to pre-finance these considerable
needs until this arrived. Furthermore, about half of the refugees stayed with Albanian families,
which placed substantial demands on public services, especially health and, to a lesser extent
education services, water, and sanitation, which could not all be reached through humanitarian
intervention.
The Credit was designed and put together in a very short time, to provide link between the
structural reform agenda, which IDA had already supported through two ongoing credits - the
Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 3015-AL) and the Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project (Cr.
3016-AL) - and was to be further supported through the planned SAC. Specifically, the Public
Expenditure Support Credit was designed to (i) help safeguard Albania's functioning public
institutions during a period of unforseen crisis so that the adopted reform agenda could be
continued; (ii) maintain macroeconomic stabilization during a period when serious shocks would
depress orderly economic activities and put exceptional demand on public expenditures, while
reducing possibilities for revenue collections; (iii) help monitor and enforce an orderly public
expenditure pattern during a period of emergency; and (iv) establish a vehicle for parallel
financing for other donors willing to provide assistance to Albania in support of the above
objectives.
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
The program with its original objectives was fully implemented.
3.3 Original Components:
The Credit provided one-tranche budgetary assistance to support the project objectives.
3.4 Revised Components:
No revisions were made.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry of the Public Expenditure Support Credit was fully satisfactory. Due to the
crisis situation resulting from the outbreak of military activities and the consequent influx of
refugees into Albania, the Credit was identified, prepared, appraised, and negotiated in only 18
days. This exceptionally short preparation time was possible due to IDA's prior engagement with
the Albanian authorities in an ongoing, successful dialogue on the necessary structural reform
agenda. The Credit built on this work and further developed reform measures in the public
finance sector, as was warranted during the crisis situation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconie/achievement of objective:
The objectives of the Public Expenditure Support Credit were fully achieved and Albania's
macroeconomic stabilization program was preserved during the crisis and continued successfully
thereafter. Government authorities continued to implement the public sector reform and
transparency measures in public expenditure management, and remained fully within agreed
aggregate fiscal targets. Expenditure levels agreed upon to provide basic public services were
met. In addition, the Albanian authorities quickly regained the reform momentum and even
prepared difficult privatization measures throughout the Kosovo crisis. Following resolution of
the crisis situation, in June 1999, the SAC (7303-ALB) and the IMF's Second Annual
Arrangement for the ESAF were approved. The Public Expenditure Support Program also served
as a program for the provision of parallel financing of budgetary support by the European Union
and USAID.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Macroeconomic Stabilization. The budgetary cost of the crisis is estimated at US$75 million,
about 2 percent of GDP in 1999, which was entirely financed by foreign assistance triggered by
the Public Expenditure Support Credit. Macroeconomic management was excellent throughout
the crisis and macroeconomic stability was successfully maintained. The Government moved
quickly and decisively in dealing with the large influx of refugees. Owing to Albania's prudent
policies and to generous external assistance, the economic impact of the crisis proved negligible.
Despite demand pressures, inflation fell due to tight monetary policy and in-kind humanitarian aid.
The current account deficit for 1999 was 3.5 percentage points below projected levels, reflecting
stronger than expected exports and lower imports as a result of the early return of refugees.
However, the crisis led to a postponement of investments and exacerbated problems in customs
administration (including smuggling and crowding out of regular imports) which lead to tax
shortfalls.
-3-



Ensure Adequate Fiscal Resource Allocation. Expenditure allocations for the public sector were
maintained at levels projected in the 1999 budget to ensure that essential public services to
Albania's own population did not receive less funds due to the crisis. Prudent fiscal management
was continued and aggregate expenditure levels were met. Defense spending remained below the
4.3 percent of overall fiscal expenditures which had been agreed upon as part of the policy
program defined under the Credit.
Ensure Transparent and Accountable Use of Budgetary Fund. The outline of the Budget
Framework Memorandum was prepared and adjustments for expenditure categorizations were
made.  Substantial efforts and progress have since been made in improving the budget
management process in Albania. IDA continued to provide important support under the SAC, the
PRSP process, and as part of the Public Investment Review exercise. The Public Expenditure
Support Credit specified that a budgetary account would be opened at the Savings Bank of
Albania for all financial aid donated to the Government to cover the relief effort. This so-called
"Kosovo Account" was opened but used only for direct emergency assistance transfers. All
budgetary assistance provided continued to be channeled through the Treasury Account
established at the Bank of Albania, since the authorities decided - after discussions with Bank
staff - that changing existing procedures during an emergency situation could add confusion and
jeopardize transparency.
Coordination and Transparency of Relief Program. The Emergency Management Group - led by
Government and consisting of all development and humanitarian donors - operated successfully.
A representative of the Albania Country Office participated actively in the Emergency
Management Group. Daily monitoring mechanisms for the distribution of aid were established.
Information on the receipt and distribution of humanitarian aid was widely disseminated. The
data base on humanitarian aid flows was kept current and utilized consistently. Customs
screening of humanitarian aid continued to be a significant bottleneck throughout the crisis,
leading to the late arrival of humanitarian aid. While the Government made strong efforts to
rectify the situation, the institutional weaknesses of the customs could not be totally overcome.
Improving customs services and establishing more transparent and accountable revenue collection
processes at customs have since been an important element of assistance provided under the IMF
ESAF program.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A (budgetary support credit)
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
N/A (budgetary support credit)
4.5 InstitLutional development impact:
The Public Expenditure Support Credit was essential for maintaining public finance management
and continued public service provision in Albania and was an important element in preventing
back-sliding of institutional reforms which were underway. By providing highly visible and timely
assistance during a period of crisis, reconfirniing the key elements of public expenditure
management and public expenditure priorities, public expenditure management continued in an
orderly fashion, even during this period of exceptional demands. The quick and effective support
- 4 -



provided through the program was an essential ingredient in enabling the Government to adhere
to agreed public expenditure levels and practices.  The responsiveness of IDA  to the
Government's emergency needs very early during the crisis added credibility to IDA in the eyes of
the Albanian population and policy makers. It also strengthened the position of the reformist
elements within the Government.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5,1 Factors ottside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The military hostilities ended after only a few months, much earlier than anticipated. By
September 1999 virtually all refugees from Kosovo had left Albania, much quicker than expected.
The brevity of the refugee crisis largely aided Albania to regain its reform momentum. It also
reduced total public expenditures to lower levels than projected at the beginning of the crisis. Its
short duration was a key factor in the prevention of the unraveling of the reform process and of
the institutions in the face of the demands of the crisis.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Albanian authorities were exceptionally effective in providing quick assistance to arriving
refugees, with the very extensive support of its population. Humanitarian assistance was well
coordinated by the Government-led Emergency Management Group. Humanitarian aid agencies,
which mostly arrived during the latter part of the crisis, were generally impressed by the effective
early handling of the emergency situation by authorities. The Government also established a
consensus that throughout the crisis every effort should be made to continue with the reform
agenda in spite of the associated pressures on fiscal and human resources.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Finance was very effective in continuing to control expenditures and to prevent
the reallocation of resources away from basic social services essential for poverty alleviation. All
expenditure targets were met.  However, the crisis did exacerbate problems in customs
administration, including smuggling and crowding out of regular imports, leading to tax shortfalls.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
N/A (budgetary support credit).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Public Expenditure Support Credit's objective was to sustain the reform momentum in public
sector management during a period of crisis. The institutional reform process has since continued
and is being supported through additional programs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Policy reform measures agreed upon under the Credit have been continued under the SAC and the
ESAF program. Further reviews and institutional support measures have been defined under the
Public Expenditure and Institutional Review, undertaken during FYOO and FYO1. Additional
strengthening of public expenditure management, including resource allocation decision-making
and improvement of transparency measures are being pursued under the participatory process of
preparing the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), as well as through technical assistance
- 5-



provided under the Public Administration Reform Project (Credit 3328-ALB).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during the preparation of the program was highly satisfactory. Bank staff
quickly identified the key policy reform components which needed attention during the crisis
months. The very timely and highly visible support provided under the Credit was essential for
demonstrating partnership in Albania while helping to sustain the consensus for reform within the
Government. The exceptionally quick disbursement of funds assured Albanian authorities that
external budgetary support would be forthcoming.
7.2 Supervision:
The Credit was a one-tranche operation where all conditions were met prior to disbursement.
The continued implementation of agreed measures was supervised under the SAC and they are
assessed in the ICR for that operation (Credit 7303-ALB). Given the nature of the operation, no
supervision mission was scheduled for the Public Expenditure Support Credit.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance was highly satisfactory. All policy elements were appropriately designed
except for some details in the administrative procedures for the "Kosovo account" (see Section
4.2).
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly satisfactory; collaboration and focus on essential reform measures mobilized institutional
synergy during a crisis situation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government provided strong coordination of humanitarian measures with special efforts to
maintain transparency in the use of funds and humanitarian assistance. Consensus was maintained
among the Government to not derail the reform agenda.
7.6 InmplementingAgency:
Highly successful in maintaining fiscal prudence and maintaining priority expenditures for public
services, especially in the social sectors. There was some backsliding in tax revenue collection
due to institutional weaknesses in customs, which were further exacerbated by crisis. The
authorities were exceptionally effective in maintaining a stringent monetary policy to limit
inflationary pressures caused by increased demand from refugees and from a large influx of the
international community during the crisis.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Highly satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
A budgetary support credit with disbursements against a negative list of imports was used instead
of an emergency import credit with disbursements against a positive lists of imports, which was
-6 -



more typically used in similar situations in other countries. This quick disbursing budgetary
support credit was a very effective instrument during a crisis situation as it allowed the rapid
transfer resources.  It was possible in Albania because macroeconomic management was
satisfactory and an IMF ESAF program was successfully under implementation. The approach
was also possible as full agreement had previously been reached with Albanian authorities on the
reform agenda, which allowed the continued implementation of a much-restricted, but very
focused program throughout the crisis months.
The Public Expenditure Support Credit was an effective element in coordination between
development and humanitarian assistance. Although the budgetary support did not directly finance
humanitarian assistance, it provided support for public services directed to the Albanian
population itself Without the Credit, these public services would likely have been diverted during
the crisis situation. The Credit made a contribution to poverty alleviation in Albania, because the
policy program specified the continued use of funds for essential public services.
The quick timing and high visibility of the Credit was essential in strengthening partnership in
Albania and building credibility for IDA. The very quick response of IDA and the early
availability of the funds strengthened the position of the reformers in the Albanian government.
To expand and further strengthen the limited policy program supported by the Credit, additional
support from subsequent operations was essential. The sustainability of the program would not
have been assured through a single, one-tirne emergency intervention.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementin7g agency:
Comments from the Ministry of Finance dated June 22, 2001, are attached to the ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
-7-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
tndicator/Matrix                  Project in Last PSR 1/          Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Maintain adequate macroeconomic and    Continued monitoring under the IMF
fiscal stability during crisis period.  program. ESAF approved June 1999.
Latest assessments indicate that the
program continues to be on target.
Implement measures to maintain targets   Condition met prior to Board approval
agreed under the ESAF program, including  (May 6, 1999).
maintaining the domestically financed
fiscal deficit at 5.5 percent of GDP.
* Budgetary expenditures for defense
purposes (except services provided to relief Condition met prior to Board approval
operations) will not exceed 4.3 percent  (May 6, 1999).
overall fiscal expenditures.
11. Ensure adequate fiscal resource    Intemational assistance and effective
allocation safeguard essential public sector  govemment policy enabled
functions.                             expenditure levels to be maintained,
in spite of the additional fiscal
demands of the refugee situation.
Condition met prior to Board approval
* Expenditure allocations to be maintained  (May 6, 1999).
at least at levels approved in the 1999
budget for:
* Social services, in particular health
care and education.
* Maintenance of public infrastructure.
* Civil service, internal security, and
judicial institutions.
* Local counterpart funds for public
investments.
-8 -



III. Ensure transparent and accountable use
of budgetary funds.
* Prepare an outline acceptable to IDA of   Condition met prior to Board approval   Completed
the Budget Framework Memorandum to   (May 6, 1999).
provide a flexible and transparent
mechanism for allocating budgetary
resources bimonthly starting in May.
* Add separate expenditure categories  Condition met prior to Board approval   Completed
temporarily to budget classification to  (May 6, 1999).
provide transparent and accountable
identification of budgetary resources
allocated to finance emergency needs.
* Establish a monitoring mechanism for the Condition met prior to Board approval   Completed
use of budgetary funds allocated to the  (May 6, 1999).
relief efforts and submit biweekly reports
to the Ministry of Information which would
be published for the use of the public and
the donor community.
* Establish a budgetary account in the  Decision subsequently made to use this  Completed
Savings Bank of Albania for all financial   account only for direct emergency
aid donated to the Government to cover    assistance transfers. All budgetary
relief efforts ("The Kosovo Account").  assistance continued to be channeled
through the Treasury Account with the
Bank of Albania.
* Implement guidelines and procedures  Condition met prior to Board approval   Completed
requiring full budget and treasury   (May 6, 1999).
procedures for the allocation, execution,
accounting, and reporting of funds in the
Kosovo Account.
IV. Improve coordination and transparency
of relief program.
* Establish one focal point - the     Condition met prior to Board approval  Completed
Emergency Management Group-in the     (May 6, 1999).
Govemment for coordination of all
intemational and national relief efforts.
* Establish a customs screening and   Condition met prior to Board approval  Additional strengthening of the
coordination process for the importation of  (May 6, 1999).             customs service is part of the
the humanitarian aid.                                                   IMF program.
* Improve controls and provide public  Condition met prior to Board approval  Completed
reporting on the distribution of aid within   (May 6, 1999).
Albania.
* Establish a database of international aid   Condition met prior to Board approval  Effective program for the
flows and make this information available  (May 6, 1999).               dissemination of information
on a daily basis to the public and to donor                             was implemented.
organizations.
1/ End of project.
9



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million   _-
Public Expenditure Support Program                   30.00           30.00            100
Total Baseline Cost                                  30.00           30.00
Total Project Costs             30.00           30.00   1               1
Total Financing Required              30.00           30.00
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component            Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA      Govt.    CoF.      IDA      Govt.    CoF.   IDA   Govt.  CoF.
Public Expenditure     30.00                       30.00                      100.0
Support Program
-1 0 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 11 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month'Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation/
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/99 (all steps             6   Sr. Guarantee Specialist,
completed during a               Sr. Country Economist, Public
single mission)                  Expenditure Management
Specialist, Country Director,
Resident Representative, Public
Administration Specialist
(Consultant)
Appraisal/Negotiation
see above                        See above
Supervision
From updating                                                       HS            HS
report (7/99). No
supervision
mission required
for this one
tranche
adjustment
operation.
The underlying
program was
supervised as part
of the SAC (Cr.
32310- ALB)
ICR
no mission                  I    Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycic                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff wecks              uSS ('O()
Identification/Preparation/              12.6                        47.6
AppraisallNegotiation
Appraisal/Negotiation                     1.6                         5.0
Supervision                               5.2                        22.6
ICR                                       1.9                        11.0
Total                                    21.3                        86.2
- 12 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
OSector Policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Financial                               O H  OSUOAM  O N  * NA
I Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
al Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                            OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- i3 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
ai Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  u  O HU
L  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                  *HS OS  O  U  O HU
OI Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 14-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
ALBANIA - Public Expenditure Support Credit. Report and Recommendation of the President, Report No.
P-7302-ALB
ALBANIA - Structural Adjustment Credit, Report and Recommendation of the President, Report No.
P-7303-ALB
ALBANIA - Implementation Completion Report Rehabilitation Credit, Report No.19102
ALBANIA - Implementation Completion Report, Structural Adjustment Credit, Draft April 16, 2001
ALBANIA - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility Policy, Framework Paper, (1999-2001)
ALBANIA - Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, IDA/ R2000-20
ALBANIA - Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IDA/M2000-263)
-15-






REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
Ministry of Finance
Treasury and Debt Department
Bul. "Deshmoret e Kombit", Tirane                TeVFax: + 355 42 292 00
Tirana, on June 22, 2001
World Bank Mission
Tirana, Albania
RE: Public Expenditure Support Credit (Cr. 31970-AL).
I would like to thank you for the Implementation Completion Report for the
above mentioned Credit. Please find attached a short report on behalf of the
Ministry of Finance as Implementing Agency of the Borrower.
Sincerely,
jerberi
Deputy Minister of Finance






Report
of the Ministry of Finance (Implementing Agency) on the Public
Expenditure Support Credit refering to the draft of the Implementation
Completion Report.
At the Height of the Cosovo Crisis in May 1999, Albania provided shelter to
more than 500,000 refuges. International humanitarian relief was being
mobilized but at slows speed, and much of the humanitarian aid assistance
arrived towards the end of the hostilities. At that time, in April The public
Expenditure Support Credit was designed. The immediate public financing
requirements caused by the Cosovo crisis risked undermining public
expenditure management measures, which were under implementation at the
time. At risk also was the continued implementation of the transparency
measures to reduce corruption in the public sector.
The objective of the Credit was to provide immediate budgetary assistance to
prevent a derailment of the ongoing public expenditure and public expenditure
and public management program. The credit was designed and put together in
very short time, to provide link between the structural reform agenda, which
IDA had already supported two ongoing credits - the Rehabilitation Credit and
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project and was to be further
supported through planned SAC. The main objectives where to (i) help
safeguard Albania's functioning public institutions during a period of
unforeseen crisis so that adopted reform agenda could be continued; (ii)
maintain macroeconomic stabilization during a period when serious shock
would depress orderly activities and put exceptional demand on public
expenditures, while reducing possibilities for revenues collections; (iii) help
monitor and enforce an orderly public expenditure pattern during a period of
emergency; and (iv) establish a vehicle for parallel financing for other donors
willing to provide assistance to Albania in support of the above objectives.
The objectives of Public Expenditure Support Credit were fully achieved and
Albania's macroeconomic stabilization program was preserved during the
crisis and continued successfully thereafter. Albanian government authorities
continued to implement the public sector reforms and transparency measures in
public expenditure management, and remained fully within agreed fiscal
targets. The Public Expenditure Support Program also served as a program for
the provision of parallel financing of budgetary support by the European Union
and USAID.
Macroeconomic management was excellent throughout the crisis and
macroeconomic stability was successfully maintained. The Albanian
Government moved quickly and decisively in dealing with the large influx of
refugees. Despite demand pressures, inflation fell due to tight monetary policy



and in-kind humanitarian aid, the current account deficit for 1999 was below
projected levels.
Substantial efforts and progress have since been made in improving the budget
management process in Albania. The Public Expenditure Support Credit was
essential for maintaining public finance management and continued public
service provision in Albania and was an important element in preventing
backsliding of institutional reformns, which were underway. The quick and
effective support provided through the program was an essential ingredient in
enabling the Government to adhere the agreed public expenditure levels and
practices.
The Albanian authorities were exceptionally effective in providing quick
assistance to arriving refugees, with the very extensive support of its
population. The Government also established a consensus that throughout the
crisis every effort should be made to continue with the reform agenda in spite
of the associated pressures on fiscal and human resources.
The quick disbursement budgetary support credit was a very effective
instrument during a crisis situation. It was possible in Albania because
macroeconomic management was satisfactory and ESAF Program was
successfully under implementation
The Credit was identified, prepared, appraised, and negotiated in very short
time. This exceptionally short preparation time was possible due to IDA's prior
engagement with the Albanian authorities, successful dialogue and the
necessary structural reforrm agenda. IDA continued to provide important
support under the SAC, ht e PRSP process and as a part of the Public
Investment Review exercise. The responsiveness of IDA to the Government's
emergency needs very early during the crisis-added credibility to IDA in the
eyes of the Albanian population and policy makers. It also strengthened the
position of the reformist elements within the Government.
The Bank performance during the preparation of the program was highly
satisfactory because the bank staff quickly identified the key policy reform
components, which needed attention during the crisis. The very timely and
highly visible support provided by the Bank was essential for demonstrating
partnership in Albania while helping to sustain the consensus for reforn within
the Government. The exceptionally quick disbursement of funds by the Bank
assured Albanian authorities that budgetary support would be forthcoming.
Tirana on June 22, 2001



