Report No. PID11263
Project Name             AREMENIA-Fifth Structural Adjustment...
Credit (SAC5)
Region                   Europe and Central Asia
Sector                   Adjustment Operation
Project ID               P075758
Borrower                 Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Finance and Economy
Date this PID prepared   January 2, 2003
Projected Board Date     February, 2003
1.      Background.   Since 1994, the Armenian Government has succeeded in
carrying out a comprehensive reform program to achieve sustainable economic
growth. Real output, which had fallen about 60 percent during 1991-93, has
since been growing at an annual average of about 5.5 percent. As a small,
landlocked country with few natural resources, Armenia has achieved this
success mainly through economic reform, which has helped to establish a
liberal economic regime and sustain macroeconomic stability, as well as due
to a well-educated workforce with specialized technical skills. The reform
effort has been supported by generous official development assistance that in
late 90s amounted to around 10 percent of GDP a year. The rapid and
sustained real output growth, accompanied by low inflation, has positively
impacted the poverty indicators. The depth and severity of poverty is
declining, and extreme poverty is subsiding. The share of the population
living in poverty declined from 55 percent in 1998/99, to 47 percent in 2001.
In the same period, the share of population in extreme poverty declined from
27 percent to 19 percent.
2.      Despite considerable progress, sustainability of Armenia's economic
recovery remains of concern. Growth, especially from 1995-1999, has been
concentrated mainly in sectors with limited employment opportunities.
Recovery in agriculture and energy, and expansion in the construction and
service sectors were the main factors contributing to growth. In contrast,
the manufacturing sector under-performed, although Armenia's strongest
comparative advantage lies in this sector, due to its skilled labor
endowment. At the same time, the unfinished fiscal adjustment and the
associated macroeconomic uncertainties continued to depress private sector
expectations and further delayed new investments and entry of strategic
foreign investors, including those from the Diaspora. Persisting fiscal
problems on both expenditure management and revenue sides caused chronic
quasi-fiscal deficits in public utilities and infrastructure, and low levels
of financing for core social services. Deterioration in the social sectors
and infrastructure undermines the country's longer-term growth prospects and
raises the risk of social tensions.
3.      Project Scope and Objectives.   The proposed SAC5 focuses on three
components: (i) Developing the private sector and accelerating enterprise
sector reform to facilitate sustainable growth and employment and reduce
public costs of operating non-viable SOEs, (ii) Promoting reform in public
administration and budget management systems to support governance reform and
improve efficiency in utilizing existing budgetary resources, and (iii)



Advancing social sector reforms (including education, health, social
protection and pension) to ensure social sustainability of reforms and reduce
poverty. The proposed SAC5 is closely associated with the World Bank's
previous adjustment credits, including the SAC3 and SAC4. It is a logical
extension of these operations and will further deepen reforms supported by
these credits. The proposed SAC5 is fully consistent with the PRSP and will
help the Government deepen reforms in several areas that are essential to the
draft PRSP, including better targeting of poverty benefits to the poorest
groups, greater provision of basic education and health to the poor,
increased pensions, better expenditure management and revenue mobilization,
strengthened governance, and greater potential for private sector employment
generation. the IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Reduction Facility (PRGF),
approved in May 2001, has played an important role for macroeconomic
stability.
4.      Environmental Aspects.   In accordance with the Association's Operational
Policies (OP 4.01), the proposed operation has been placed in Category "C"
and does not require an environmental assessment.
5.      Benefits.  The proposed SAC5's major benefit is to provide foreign
exchange to support balance of payments and non-inflationary budget
financing. Additionally, by supporting the Government's policy to eliminate
administrative barriers to new businesses and expand foreign and domestic
investment, SAC5 supports maintaining the pace of reforms and diminishing
foreign investor uncertainty and negative perceptions of the country's credit
rating. Furthermore, SAC5 supports Government efforts to sustain
macroeconomic stability and maintain social sector budget expenditures at
appropriate levels.
6.      Potential Risks.   The proposed SAC5 faces four main risks.   The first
risk is associated with possible weakening in Government's commitment to SAC5
supported reform measures, especially given expected populist pressures
during the pre-election period. The second risk relates to macroeconomic
instability caused by fiscal weaknesses, especially in revenue performance.
The third risk concerns Government's capacity to carry out particular reform
measures under SAC5, such as improved tax and customs administration. The
fourth risk relates to potential political instability, to which the Caucasus
region has been historically vulnerable. If this risk materializes and the
Karabakh conflict is renewed, SAC5's implementation would become difficult
and its temporary cessation, along with the supported reform program, might
be unavoidable. Measures to mitigate these risks include: (i) Government
commitment to macroeconomic stability including recent agreements under the
PRGF program; (ii) close working relationship between the World Bank and the
Government, supported by various economic and sector works, including recent
Growth Study, which has facilitated Government understanding of the main
strategic policy priorities; (iii) mobilizing a multi- donor technical
assistance package to carry out SAC5; and (iv) strong up-front policy
conditionality for the proposed operation.
Contact point:
Team Leaders:
L. Freinkman, (ECSPE), Tel: (202)4587410 and Fax (202)5222754
M. R. Ghasimi, (ECSPE), Tel(202)4735868 and Fax (202)5222751
- 2 -



Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H St., NW
Washington, D.C., 20433
Tel.: (202) 458-5454
Fax.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This information is provided for an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project, while the
scope and cost of other components may be adjusted.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
January 10, 2003.
-3-



