Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7567-AM
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A PROPOSED
FIFTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR30.2 MILLION
(US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
February 12,2003
This documentation has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = Dramn
Dram = US$0.0017
US$1.0 = 584.89 Dram
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADA                   Armenian Development Agency
ASYCUDA               Automated System Custom Data
BBP                   Basic Benefit Package
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CBA                   Central Bank of Armenia
CIS                   Commonwealth of Independent States
CSL                   Civil Service Law
COC                   Chamber of Control
CPAR                  Country Procurement Assessment Review
DFID                  Department for Intemational Development, U.K.
EBRD                  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA                   Europe and Central Asia
EDC                   Energy Distribution Company
EU                    European Union
FDI                   Foreign Direct Investment
FIEF                  Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation
FSU                   Former Soviet Union
GOA                   Government of Armenia
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
IAS                   Intemational Accounting Standards
IFIs                 Intemational Financial Institutions
IPR                   Intellectual Property Rights
IDA                   Intemational Development Association
IMF                   Intemational Monetary Fund
LIL                   Learning and Innovation Loan
MOFE                  Ministry of Finance and Economy
MTEF                  Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NBFI                  Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NGOs                  Non-Govermment Organizations
PFB                   Poverty Family Benefit
PINs                  Personal Identification Numbers
PPIAF                 Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRGF                  Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD                   Private Sector Development
SAC5                  Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC                 Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SME                   Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE                   State-Owned Enterprise
SPA                   State Procurement Agency
STS                  State Tax Service
TACIS                 Technical Assistance to the CIS, EU program
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
VAT                   Value Added Tax
WTO                   World Trade Organization
Vice President:                         J. F. Linn
Country Director:                       D. M. Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:                        C. W. Gray
Sector Manager                          S. K. E. Otoo
Task Managers:                          L. M. Freinkman and M. R. Ghasimi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit
Credit Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Armenia
Amount:                 SDR30.2 million (U,S$40 million equivalent)
Terms:                  IDA terms, with 40 years maturity, including a 10 year grace
period
Commitment Fee:         A rate of 0.75 percent of the undisbursed credit balance
Objectives:             The proposed credit's main objectives are to support the
Government's efforts in: (i) developing the private sector and
accelerating public enterprise reform, (ii) promoting public
sector reforms, and (iii) advancing social sector reforms
(including education, health, social protection, and pension).
Benefits:               The proposed credit's major benefit is its provision of foreign
exchange to support balance of payments and non-
inflationary budgetary financing. Additionally, by supporting
the Government's policy to eliminate barriers for private
sector development, and advancing social sector reforms, the
proposed credit supports maintaining the pace of economic
recovery and poverty reduction.
Risks:                  The proposed credit faces four main risks. The first risk is
associated with possible weakening in Government's
commitment to SAC5 supported reform measures.   The
second risk relates to macroeconomic instability caused by
fiscal weaknesses, especially in revenue performance. The
third risk concerns Government's capacity to carry out
particular reform measures under SACS, such as improved
tax and custom administration. Measures to mitigate these
risks include: (i) Government commitment to macroeconomic
stability including the recent agreements under the PRGF
program; (ii) close working relationship between the World
Bank and the Government, supported by various economic
and sector works, including the recent Armenia Growth
Study, which has facilitated Government understanding of the
main strategic policy priorities; (iii) mobilizing a multi-donor
technical assistance package to carry out the proposed SACS;
and (iv) strong up-front policy conditionality for the proposed
operation.  A  fourth risk relates to potential political
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



instability, to which the Caucasus region has been historically
vulnerable. While this is not considered likely at this time, if
this risk were to materialize, SAC5's implementation would
become difficult and its temporary cessation, along with the
supported reform program, might be unavoidable.
Rate of Return:         Not applicable.
Poverty Category:       The proposed credit is not a targeted poverty operation.
Nonetheless, it supports improvements in targeting poverty
benefits for the poorest groups. In addition, it would support
measures to expand the public provision of basic education
and health, and improve equitability of access to these
sources, especially for the poor. The agreed actions in the
area of pension reform will result in an increase in the
average size of the old age pension.
Environment Category:   The proposed credit has been placed in Category C, in
accordance with the Association's Operational Policies (OP
4.01).
Disbursement:           The proposed credit will be provided in two tranches. The
first will become available upon credit effectiveness, and the
second upon fulfillment of the second'tranche conditions. It
is expected that the credit will be fully disbursed by June 30,
2004.
Project ID Number:      P075758



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.     THE ECONOMY ...............................................1
Background ...............................................1
Developments in 1999-2002 ..............................................4
Debt Sustainability ...............................................6
Economic Prospects ..............................................7
II.    THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM                  PROGRAM .............................................. 7
Private Sector Development and Public Enterprise Reform .............................8
Business and Legal Environment .............................................  10
Public Enterprise Reform ..............................................      10
Public Infrastructure ..............................................1.1
Tax and Customs Administration .............................................  12
Financial Sector ..............................................              13
Promoting Public Sector Reforms ..............................................      15
Public Administration .............................................          15
Budget Management System ............................................. 16
Advancing Social Sector Reforms ..............................................      17
Education ..............................................                      17
Health .............................................                         18
Social Protection ..............................................             20
Pension Reform ..............................................                21
Program Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................................    22
III.   THE PROPOSED CREDIT ...............................................                        22
A.     Objectives and Rationale for Association Involvement ........................ 22
B.     Benefits and Risks ......................................                    22
C.     Coordination with the IMF ......................................             23
D.     Credit Conditions ......................................                     23
Conditions for Board Presentation ......................................     23
Conditions for Second Tranche Release ......................................   26
E.     Implementation ......................................                        27
F.     Financial Arrangements ......................................                28
Disbursement ......................................                           28
Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date ......................................    29
G.     Poverty Implications and Enviromnental Impact .................................. 29
Annexes
Annex I          Letter of Development Policy
Annex II         Reformn Program Matrix
Annex III        The Action Plan for Improving the Business and Investment Enviromnent
Annex IV         The Action Plan for Reforming-Tax and Customs Administration
Annex V          The Action Plan for Improving Budget Management Systems
Annex VI         Key Economic Indicators
Annex VII        Fund Relations with Armenia
Annex VIII       Country at a Glance
iii






I. THE ECONOMY
Background
1.    Since 1994, the Armenian Government has succeeded in carrying out a
comprehensive reform program to achieve sustainable economic growth. Real output,
which had fallen by about 60 percent during 1991-93, has since been growing at an
annual average of about 5.5 percent. As a small landlocked country with few natural
resources, Armenia has achieved this success mainly through economic reform, which
has helped in establishing a liberal economic regime and sustained macroeconomic
stability. A well-educated workforce with specialized technical skills has also
contributed to this achievement. The reform effort has been supported by generous
official development assistance that in the late 90s amounted to around 10 percent of
GDP a year. The rapid and sustained real output growth, accompanied by low inflation,
has positively impacted poverty indicators. The depth and severity of poverty is
declining, and extreme poverty is subsiding. While the share of population living in
poverty declined from 55 percent in 1998/99 to 48 percent in 2001, and in the same
period, the share of population in extreme poverty declined from 27 percent to 20
percent, the level of poverty remains high.
2.    Despite considerable progress, the sustainability of Armenia's economic recovery
remains a concern. Recovery in agriculture and energy, and expansion in construction
and service sectors have been the main factors contributing to growth. In contrast, the
manufacturing sector under-performed, although due to its skilled labor endowment,
Armenia's strongest comparative advantage lies in this sector. As highlighted in the
November 2001 World Bank Study, "Armenia Growth Challenges and Government
Policies", so far Armenia's output growth has been accompanied by insufficient
employment generation and poverty reduction, primarily because the business
environment has not been supportive of enterprise restructuring and new entry for most
of the period'. At the same time, the unfinished fiscal adjustment and the associated
macroeconomic uncertainties continued to depress private sector expectations and further
delay new investments and entry of strategic foreign investors, including those from the
Diaspora. Persistent fiscal problems on both expenditure management and revenue sides
caused chronic quasi-fiscal deficits in public utilities and infrastructure, and low levels of
financing for the core social services. Investment in social sectors and infrastructure is
critical to the country's longer-term growth prospects and to reducing the risk of social
tensions.
3.    In early 2001, the Government of Armenia made essential adjustments to its
economic strategy. The Government reform program, supported by the IMF Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) and the World Bank SAC4, has shifted the focus
to improving the business environment, developing consultative mechanisms with the
private sector, and building capacity for export and investment promotion.  The
Government effort in these areas has been broadly successful as reflected in the major
outcomes of the on-going reform programs summarized in Box 1. Recent enterprise
For an analytical review of this issue see "Transition: The First Ten Years", The World Bank, 2002.
1



surveys also show increased private sector satisfaction with the Govemment's economic
policy. The strong economic growth of 2001-02 was for the first time driven by a high
rate of export expansion. Manufacturing exports grew by more than 50 percent in two
years, with a positive impact on employment and household incomes. The average wage
in the private sector increased to $43.6 in the middle of 2002, compared with $34.6 in
2000.
Box 1. Major Outcome/Output Indicators for the Reform Program Supported by
SAC3 and SAC4
*  Reduced the share of population living in poverty from 55 percent in 1998/99 to 48 percent
in 2001, and reduced the share of population in extreme poverty from 27 percent to 20
percent in the same period.
*  Increased average size of the old-age pension in real terms by about 50 percent between
1997 and 2002.
* Eliminated pension and poverty benefit arrears.
* Increased the level of budget spending in real terms on public health (including partial
repayment of arrears of the previous years) by about 55 percent and on education by about
90 percent between 1997 and 2002.
* Reduced excess capacity in public health (outside of Yerevan) by reducing the number of:
independent hospitals by 18 percent; policlinics by 32 percent; and hospital beds by 52
percent in 2002 compared with 2001.
*  Increased the average monthly wage in the private sector from $23.8 in 1997 to $43.6 in
mid-2002.
*  Doubled the number of registered joint ventures as well as the volume of FDI between 1997
and 2002.
*  Increased the level of merchandised exports (without polished diamonds) by 100 percent in
the last 3 years.
* Improved the level of satisfaction of the private sector with the current administrative and
regulatory procedures. A survey of 200 companies in late 2001 showed an average level of
satisfaction of 3.33, on a six-point scale (where I stands for very dissatisfied and 6 - for
very satisfied), compared with 2.57 in 2000.
*  Reduced: (i) average reported time to complete the business registration process from 27.3
days in 2000 to 21.1 days in 2001; (ii) the average cost of registration from US$109.0 in
2000 to $92.8 in 2001; (iii) the average time required to receive a business license from 23.5
days in 2000 to 18.5 days in 2001; and (iv) the annual number of inspections from 6.6 to 6.4
per firm from 2000 to 2001.
*  Completed privatization of most of the small and medium enterprises and 75 percent of the
large public enterprises in 2002.
*  Increased the number of active registered taxpayers by about 50 percent since the end of
1997.
* Sustained a liberal trade regime and maintained a stable currency, with gross international
reserves reaching an equivalent of about 4 months of imports.
*  Reduced the shipping cost for a standard cargo container for delivery from Yerevan to Poti
port in Georgia by 25 percent on average between 1999 and 2001/2002.
4.     The Government is now moving on to a further stage of its development strategy
with preparation of the full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which follows the
2



May 2001 Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The Govermment has successfully
fostered a participatory process in preparing the PRSP. A wide cross-section of groups
has been involved in the PRSP Steering Committee, including Parliamentarians, NGOs,
and representatives of the donor community. The Government has also conducted a
successful public awareness campaign regarding the PRSP preparation process. The
Government has emphasized the close links between the PRSP and the Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to ensure that PRSP's policy objectives remain
consistent with the medium-term availability of fiscal resources. Based on a draft of the
full PRSP, additional work will be needed to ensure full consistency. The latest PRSP.
Preparation Status Report was submitted at the time of the IMF Board meeting of the
Executive Directors on September 25, 2002. The Government plans to complete
preparation of the full PRSP in the first half of 2003.
5.    By its design, the proposed SAC5 has been structured to help provide the
necessary framework for future Bank support for the PRSP. Specifically, once the PRSP
is finalized and the proposed SAC5 fully implemented, future quick disbursing program
assistance would be in the form of Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits (PRSCs). A first
PRSC would be implemented in a new environment of a PRSP with a strong focus on
tangible outcomes in economic growth and poverty reduction and an established
medium-term expenditure framework that would support implementation of the PRSP
and PRSC within realistically planned fiscal resources.
6.    The proposed SAC5 was an integral part of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) of May 22, 2001 (see Box 2). The proposed SAC5 supports Government's effort
to sustain and expand the recent positive economic trends and pave the way for a possible
PRSC if conditions warrant.  It will make growth economically and politically
sustainable by advancing fiscal stabilization, and reforming infrastructure and social
services. The proposed SAC5 focuses on three components:
(i) Developing the private sector and accelerating enterprise sector reform to
facilitate sustainable growth and employment and reduce the public costs of
operating non-viable SOEs;
(ii) Promoting reform in public administration and budget management systems to
support governance reform and improve efficiency in utilizing existing budgetary
resources; and
(iii) Advancing social sector reforms (including education, health, social
protection and pension) to ensure social sustainability of reforms and reduce
poverty.
3



Box 2. Reform Progress Envisioned by the CAS Benchmarks: Base Case Triggers
(i) Overall Development/Poverty Reduction
* Developed the I-PRSP and prepared the first draft of the PRSP.
* Sustained a satisfactory macroeconomic environment with the PRGF program on track.
* Incurred no new arrears in counterpart funding for IDA projects, as well as on pensions,
poverty benefit, and other social sector expenditures.
* Kept the share of IDA projects in Armenia rated satisfactory on implementation at 7
percent.
(ii) Private Sector
*  Made satisfactory progress in implementation of the Action Plan for improving the
business environment and removing administrative barriers for investments.
*  Made satisfactory progress in implementing the legal framework for private sector
development and introduced new joint stock and limited liability company laws as well
as bankruptcy legislation, in line with international best practice.
(iii) Governance
* Made progress in tax/customs administration, court infrastructure, training, and the
working ofjudicial system as measured by business and client surveys.
* Enacted the Civil Service Law and implemented the income/asset declaration for senior
public servants.
(iv) Social Sectors
* Implemented the school rationalization plan in a satisfactory manner in 2001.
* Implemented the hospital rationalization plan in a satisfactory manner in 2001.
* Completed the first phase of pension reform and improved targeting of social assistance.
(v) Energy
* Adopted and initiated implementation of the Comprehensive Heating Strategy and
Action Plan, covering legal, regulatory, market structure and financing issues, including
phasing out of Government involvement in the provision of district heat and imposing a
hard budget constraint on heat providers.
Developments in 1999-2002
7.     Since the Soviet Union's collapse and Armenia's independence, the Armenian
economy has faced considerable economic disruption and experienced several shocks,
including: the 1988 earthquake; the Nagomo-Karabakh conflict; the 1998 Russia
financial crisis; the 1999 assassination of the Prime Minister, key Government officials
and some members of Parliament; and the 2000 severe drought. Notwithstanding these
shocks, the Armenian economy has been remarkably resilient.        Macroeconomic
performance has been satisfactory and the Government has made considerable progress
4



in various structural reforms. As Table 1 shows, during 1998-2001, the Government
reduced the budget deficits and maintained a disciplined monetary policy with low
inflation, stable exchange rate, and sufficient international reserves.
Table 1. Macroeconomic Settings (1998-2001)
Indicators                                     1998    1999   2000   2001
Real GDP Growth (Percent change)                 7.2     3.3     6.0   9.6
CPI, percent (end period)                       -1.2     2.1     0.4   2.9
Govermment Cash Balance (% of GDP)               -4.7   -5.5    -4.6  -4.0
Exchange Rate (drams/US$)                        505     535    540   560
Current Acct. Balance (US$m)                    -403    -401    -381  -268
Current Acct. Balance (% of GDP)                -21.3  -16.6   -14.6  -9.5
Gross Intemational Reserves (US$m)               298     305    314   330
Gross International Reserves (In months of imports)  3.9  3.8    3.8   3.9
8.    Armenia's economic performance was stronger than expected in 2001, with real
GDP increasing by 9.6 percent, due to the agricultural recovery from the 2000 drought,
strong construction growth, and substantial expansion of net exports.  In 2001,
merchandise exports increased by 14 percent, while imports remained unchanged. The
current account deficit was 9.4 percent of GDP, substantially lower than previously
projected. In the same year, despite weaker than expected revenue performance, the
budget deficit (on a cash basis) remained unchanged, inflation was 3 percent, and the
exchange rate was stable.
9.    The strong economic performance has continued in 2002, with real GDP
increasing by 12.9 percent, due to growth in the mining, diamond cutting, construction,
and food processing sectors. During this period, net exports showed a substantial
increase, with exports and imports growing by 48.4 percent and 12.9 percent respectively,
compared with 2001. Fiscal performance has also improved, with tax collections
increasing by 18.4 percent in 2002. The inflation rate remained at 1.1 percent and the
exchange rate maintained its stability. Armenia continued its liberal trade policy in 2002,
and introduced relevant amendments to the Customs Code to make it consistent with the
World Trade Organization. The General Council of the WTO adopted Armenia's
accession to the WTO on December 10, 2002.
10.   Armenia also made considerable progress in advancing structural reforms.
According to an annual assessment of the policy and institutional performance, conducted
by the World Bank in 2001, Armenia's performance was on average stronger than that of
other low-income CIS countries for all the four assessment areas (Economic
Management, Structural Policies, Policies for Social Inclusion/Equity, and Public Sector
Management and Institutions), and very close to the ECA region average, with the only
relative weakness being in Public Sector Management.
11.   Despite considerable progress in macroeconomic stability, Armenian fiscal
adjustment remains weak and incomplete, impeding the sustainability of economic
5



recovery. Improvements in financing of the core social services have been hampered by
low and unstable revenue performance and excessive budget dependence on donor
financing. While reduced in recent years, the level of the quasi-fiscal deficit, primarily in
the energy sector (power, gas, heating), is still significant, at about 2 percent of GDP a
year in 2000-2002. Under these conditions, improving revenue performance remains an
essential policy priority.  This policy, combined with strengthening budget
accountability; further reducing the budget deficit; eliminating quasi-fiscal deficit; and
channeling a large share of incremental revenues to increased expenditures on basic
health, education, and old-age pensions, constitutes the core strategy for fiscal adjustment
necessary to achieve sustainable output recovery and poverty reduction. Accelerating
sectoral and civil service reforms to improve the use of budget resources, primarily in
social sectors and public administration, will further facilitate fiscal adjustment. While
the balance of payments (BOP) improved significantly since 1998, the current account
deficits remained high. Armenia still needs external assistance to close the BOP gap and
ensure necessary external financing. The BOP gap for 2003 is estimated at 4 percent of
GDP, half of which would be covered by the proposed SAC55.
Debt Sustainabity
12.   Despite recent improvements, the country's external debt situation requires
careful management, as the external debt to export ratio was close to a risk threshold of
150 percent in early 2002. By the end of 2001, the Armenian public external debt was
about US$ 905 million, or 43 percent of GDP. About 78 percent of the external debt was
concessional, and mainly originated from IDA. While the overall external debt burden
was reasonable relative to the country's GDP level, it remained high compared with
Armenia's expected export earnings. The recent strong export performance has resulted
in significant improvements in the debt profile. In addition, the Government has reached
an agreement with Russia to implement a debt-for-equity swap in 2003. Under this
agreement, Russian enterprises will have equity 'participation in several major state-
owned enterprises (SOEs) in Armenia in exchange for about US$100 million of
Government debts. The agreement will help to eliminate the most expensive part of
Armenia's debt burden and considerably improve the country's creditworthiness.
13.   Given its stronger than expected macroeconomic performance in the last two
years, Armenia is reasonably placed to manage the additional external debt incurred
under the proposed SAC5. While SAC5 disbursements will bring an additional increase
in the share of concessional debt in total external debt, the country's external debt will
remain broadly in line with the CAS projections. Assuming a continuation of strong
export performance and a moratorium on non-concessional borrowing, Armenia's
external debt profile will further improve in the medium term. The present value of
external debt is estimated to stay below 100 percent of export by 2010. As a share of
fiscal revenue, the present value of external debt is forecasted to fall from 177 percent in
2000 to less than 150 percent in 2010.
6



Economic Prospects
14.   The Government plans to achieve real GDP growth of 7 percent in 2003, and an
average growth rate of 6 percent during the remaining years of this decade. Such
favorable economic prospects are based on the assumption that the Government will
deepen the reform program and will remain committed to regional cooperation. While
high GDP growth during the initial years will primarily be due to the higher capacity
utilization, an expansion of new investment will be required to sustain growth in the
medium term. Gross investment, estimated at 18.5 percent of GDP in 2001, is targeted to
increase to an average rate of 21.5 percent of GDP in 2004-07. Because the private
sector will be responsible for undertaking much of this expansion, enhancing private
sector confidence (both domestic and foreign) through further improvements in
investment climate will remain a top Government priority.  Improving revenue
mobilization and expanding poverty-reducing expenditures will also be essential to
achieve sustainable economic growth with poverty reduction. Much of the medium-term
economic growth will be driven by export expansion, which will reduce the external
current account deficit to about 6 percent of GDP by 2010.
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
15.   Although the share of population living in poverty declined in the last two years,
the central objective of the Government's reform program, as outlined in the draft PRSP,
is poverty reduction. Poverty in Armenia became widespread over the last decade, as real
income collapsed. In addition to the problems faced by most of the transition economies,
Armenia was badly affected by the 1988 earthquake, and by the Nagorno-Karabagh war
and consequent border closure. The draft PRSP is based on three main pillars: (a)
sustainable and inclusive economic growth, driven by a more dynamic private sector; (b)
public administration reform and an anti-corruption program; and (c) enhanced human
development.
16.   Central to the Government's strategy is promotion of private sector-based growth,
which would benefit all segments of society. A more dynamic private sector will create
desperately needed new jobs, and will help provide the required tax revenues to fund vital
services, which are now only partially available to the poor. The Government aims to
provide a better environment for employment-creating growth through measures to
reduce corruption and bureaucracy, diminish distortion in tax policy, strengthen a more
transparent tax administration, and create a more efficient system of credit provision for
small businesses. The draft PRSP also emphasizes the need for further improvements in
the trade regime, downsizing of the state enterprise sector, more flexible labor markets,
modernization of the legal and bankruptcy framework, and a carefully managed
promotion of private sector investment.
17.   In the area of public administration, the draft PRSP emphasizes an acceleration of
civil service reform, further anti-corruption initiatives, more cost-effective administration
of urban and rural public services where outright private ownership is not foreseen, and
sustainable management of natural resources.
7



18.   The draft PRSP stresses the crucial importance of better human capital
development for Armenia's future. It suggests an expansion in budget allocations to the
social sectors, and advancement of a comprehensive rationalization of existing facilities,
better training and re-training, more focus on results and on using output indicators, and
greater attention to preventive health, improved housing conditions, indoor pollution, and
water and sanitation. The Government is committed to improve equity in the access to
basic public services through continued reforms in social sectors and utilities. The draft
PRSP also argues in favor of additional direct assistance to vulnerable groups (the
disabled, refugees, orphans), especially given the Government's continued commitment
to increase user fees for basic utilities and social services that is needed for fiscal and
efficiency reasons. The Government is therefore introducing wide-ranging reforms on
two fronts: first, to improve the climate for employment-creating and broadly strong
growth, and second, to advance further provision of public services and safety nets.
19.   The proposed SAC5 is fully consistent with the draft PRSP. It will help the
Government deepen reforms in several key areas, including better targeting of poverty
benefits to the poorest groups, greater provision of basic education and health to the poor,
increased pensions, better expenditure management and revenue mobilization,
strengthened governance, and greater potential for private sector employment generation.
Specific reforms that SAC5 will support can be grouped into the following three
components, which are consistent with the PRSP priorities:
*  First, accelerating private sector development and public enterprise reform
by: (i). improving the business and legal environment; (ii) deepening public
enterprise reform; (iii) advancing reforms in public infrastructure; (iv) improving
tax and customs administration; and (v) strengthening the financial sector.
.  Second, promoting public sector reforms by: (i) accelerating public
administration reforms; and (ii) improving budget management systems.
*  Third, advancing social sector reforms through: (i) increasing the budget
fmancing of core social services; (ii) achieving higher efficiency in general
education; (iii) launching reforms in university education; (iv) advancing health
sector reform; (v) improving efficiency in social protection; and (vi) launching
implementation of pension system reform.
Private Sector Development and Public Enterprise Reform
20.   Private sector development is the core tenet of Armenia's economic reform
program. Earlier in the reform process, the Government liberalized trade and prices and
established the basic legal framework, including adoption of a civil code and bankruptcy
laws. The authorities privatized most of the small and medium-sized enterprises and 75
percent of the large public enterprises and agricultural land, and significantly reduced
state intervention in enterprises. Several reform measures were adopted to improve the
business environment. Most of the legal and regulatory framework necessary for a
8



conducive private sector environment has been established, including: (i) consolidating
and reducing business inspections; (ii) enacting a new law on business registration to
simplify procedures and shorten registration time; (iii) streamlining the licensing regime;
and (iv) voiding old, unnecessary business regulations that hampered private sector
development.
21.   Recent surveys of Armenian entrepreneurs concluded that implementation of
these measures has strengthened the environment for private sector operation and
eliminated some of the factors which impeded expansion of investment, creation of jobs,
and promotion of exports. For instance, the 2002 Business Environment and Enterprise
Performance Survey (BEEPS), conducted by the World Bank and EBRD, showed
improved perceptions of the Armenian private sector on governance, including a
significant drop in both the frequency of corruption and the average time spent by
companies' management on dealing with the public officials. The Government also
strengthened its consultation mechanisms with the private sector and established a high-
level Business Council, with representation from the private and public sectors and
members of Parliament. This has encouraged an open and more transparent dialogue
between the Government and the private sector, strengthening public-private partnerships
in Armenia and providing a positive signal to domestic and foreign investors. In October
2002, the President of Armenia signed a decree to broaden Business Council membership
and expand participation of SME's representatives. Efforts have been under way to
enhance the private sector's awareness of the Business Council's activities.
22.   The capacity of the Armenian Development Agency (ADA) has been
strengthened, and it is gradually becoming a focal point for Government's efforts to
promote investment and exports as well as for identifying any remaining bottlenecks in
the business environment. The World Bank supports the Government through the
Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation (FIEF) Credit (LIL), whose main objective is
to advance the ADA's capacity building. The FIEF credit supports the establishment of a
one-stop window mechanism to inform the prospective investors about the country's
needs, resolve any outstanding administrative issues, and bolster investors' confidence, as
well as strengthening capacity building in investment and export promotion.
23.   Notwithstanding progress in private sector development, as confirmed by recent
surveys, small business growth has not yet been sufficient to absorb the resources,
including labor, released by the downsizing of the traditional companies, and to provide
much employment or value added in the economy. As outlined in the draft PRSP, the
Government's initiatives in this area focus on removing or simplifying the remaining
administrative barriers to new private sector entry and expansion, in order to facilitate
stronger SMEs in the economy. The Government reform strategy to support private
sector development centers on five main areas: (i) business and legal environment; (ii)
public enterprise reform; (iii) public infrastructure; (iv) tax and customs administration;
and (v) financial sector.
9



Business and Legal Environment
24.   The Government has developed the core legal framework necessary for private
sector operations, including the recently enacted Civil Procedure Code; the Procurement
Law; and the Business Registration Law. In June 2002, the new Law on Legal Acts was
enacted that would drastically reduce opportunities for sectoral ministries to intervene in
business entities' operations. In the course of 2002, amendments were made to several
laws relating to the protection of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), and harmonizing
Armenia's IPR laws with those of the European Union. Another set of fundamental legal
amendments, adopted in May 2002, introduced the legal framework for leasing
operations. The Government also agreed to restructure fully the Bankruptcy Law in order
to harmonize it with the recent Civil Code and Civil Procedure Code, as well as to
strengthen enforcement mechanisms for bankruptcy procedures.  In addition, the
Government is committed to developing the new Labor Code, which would remove the
existing over-regulation of the labor market and allow for the labor market flexibility that
is needed for new job creation. A draft amendment to the Insurance Law has been
adopted and submitted to Parliament. When the new bankruptcy, labor, and insurance
laws are enacted, respective implementing regulations are expected to be prepared in the
course of 2003, with priority given to those regulations on bankruptcy enforcement. The
Government is also taking steps to advance reforms in the judicial system that would
strengthen the environment for carrying out bankruptcies, enforcing contracts, and
enhancing the banking system's ability to collect collateral. It is expected that the SAC5
supported reform program will complete to a large extent the restructuring of the key
incentive framework.
25.   In consultation with the private sector, the Government has been working on
finalization and implementation of the Action Plan for improving the business and
investment environment, that include, inter alia, the following steps: (i) simplifying
urban development procedures; (ii) switching to a simplified licensing regime for internet
providers; (iii) reducing the number of goods subject to mandatory certification at the
boarder; (iv) establishing a movable property registry; (v) softening requirements for the
mandatory company seal; (vi) eliminating existing administrative restrictions on
application of banking interest rates; (vii) introducing an automatic system for risk-based
selective customs control of incoming cargo; (viii) placing information on existing tax
and customs regulations at the web sites of the State Tax Service (STS) and Customs
State Committee respectively; (ix) introducing a single payment mechanism for exporters
and importers; and (x) undertaking a new business survey and, based on analysis of its
results, developing additional recommendations for improving the business environment
in 2003. The Government is also planning to adopt steps that would simplify the
procedures for the sale of collateral and thus reducing the implicit costs to lenders.
Public Enterprise Reform
26.   The Government' is determined to strengthen the SOEs' budget constraint to
ensure that these enterprises are not given advantages over private sector competitors and
10



to reduce the burden on the public sector. The Government reform program emphasizes
improving the monitoring mechanism by the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE)
over operations of major SOEs, accelerating reorganization and liquidation of non-viable
SOEs and preventing the build-up of tax and energy payment arrears by public
companies. The Government adopted the list of 20 medium and large SOEs, which
included several major tax debtors, and intends to complete liquidation of at least ten
SOEs from this list before the middle of 2003. To achieve this, the Government plans to
streamline the existing reorganization and liquidation procedures, and to move
aggressively with their enforcement. The social impact of these liquidations will not be
significant because in most cases these SOEs stopped operations some time ago and kept
only the minimum number of employees, who can be assisted through the existing
poverty benefit system.
Public Infrastructure
27.   Since Armenia gained independence, weak financial performance of SOEs,
especially those in the infrastructure sector, have contributed to major quasi-fiscal
deficits. Since 1998, the Government has made consistent efforts to reduce these deficits
and recover the financial sustainability of the SOEs in the infrastructure sector through
formulation and implementation of the Power Sector Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP).
The FRP has focused on reducing losses, domestic debt restructuring, and improving
payment collection by the power distribution companies. The Government has increased
budget allocations to pay for electricity consumption by the budgetary entities; enforced
partial repayments of energy debts by commercial enterprises; and attained a higher
average collection rate. The Government has also adopted a privatization strategy for
most power sector enterprises and has made satisfactory progress in strengthening the
legal and regulatory framework for establishing the commercial basis for urban heating
services to eliminate state budget subsidies. While the financial condition of the
infrastructure sector has improved substantially over the last 3 years, this sector is still
dependent on the state budget and the level of quasi-fiscal deficit still remains at about 2
percent of GDP a year.
28.   The Government completed the privatization of Electricity Distribution Company
(EDC) in the second half of 2002, following a long preparatory process supported by the
World Bank Group and other donors. The Government has made considerable efforts to
strengthen payment discipline in the sector and to improve the energy sector legal and
regulatory framework, including the introduction of a new Energy Law and EDC
Privatization Law, in order to facilitate establishing a supportive environment for the new
private operator. Preliminary assessment shows that the transaction conditions, as
reflected in the Share Purchase Agreement, License, and Management Contract between
the new owner and an experienced private operator, are robust. This should help to
protect the Government and consumers from poor performance of the privatized EDC
and provide a sound basis for improving the financial and technical performance of the
company, as well as the quality of services. The Government has made adequate
provisions in the 2003 budget to ensure full payments to the energy sector by the budget
organizations and public utilities, and is committed to make timely payments to the



energy sector during the year. To ensure that the public is made aware of the power
sector's performance in a timely and credible manner, the Energy Regulation
Commission has established a Performance Monitoring and Public Dissemination
System.
29.   The Government plans to extend and deepen its reform program in infrastructure;
expand the private sector's role in the energy sector; and improve the sector's regulatory
framework. It is expected to finalize its new medium-term Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Plan by early 2003, and to provide further guidance for sectoral restructuring. The
Government reform program in this area specifically focuses on: (i) establishing a single
utility regulator; developing and adopting the necessary legal framework and provisions
to ensure the regulator's financial autonomy; and adopting an action plan to transfer
economic regulations of energy, water, and telecom sectors to the single utility regulator;
(ii) developing and adopting measures to reform mechanisms for road maintenance
financing by introducing a system of road user fees and earmarking a portion of existing
fuel taxes; and (iii) developing and publishing a schedule for irrigation tariff increases in
2002-2007, to provide full cost recovery tariffs in the irrigation system by 2007.
30.   On irrigation, the recent survey of Armenian farmers suggests that at the current
tariff level, access to irrigated water remains mostly affordable. Overall, the existing
system of implicit irrigation subsidies through low tariffs is highly regressive, with the
farmers in wealthier regions such as Ararat Valley getting a larger share of benefits,
while most rural poor (those who either do not own any land or live in remote and
mountainous regions) receive little or no benefits. The initial increases in tariff are
expected to have a limited impact on the poor, while helping to improve the financial
performance of the irrigation system and quality of services. However, after the first
stage of tariff adjustment is undertaken in 2003-04, additional cost benefit analysis may
be necessary to design a proper mitigation strategy.
Tax and Customs Administration
31.   The Government's main objectives in tax and customs administration are to
improve tax collection and strengthen tax administration in the areas of excisable goods,
VAT, personal income and payroll taxes. The primary revenue target of the Government,
consistent with the PRGF, is to ensure an annual increase in tax collection of 0.5 percent
a year in 2003 and 2004. A tangible improvement in revenue performance would
demonstrate Government's commitment to fight vested interests. The World Bank, the
IMF, and other donors, including USAID, have provided continuous support for the
Government's tax and customs administration reforms. Within the previous program,
supported under SAC4, the Government carried out several specific actions in this area.
Taxpayer access to information on changes in the regulatory framework was improved
and a taxpayer manual was prepared and published. The Government advanced reforms
in customs administration by consolidating the customs legislation in the Customs Code,
training officials, reviewing the customs' organizational structure, and expanding the use
of the Automated System Custom Data (ASYCUDA) to help reduce the cost and time for
customs clearance in the two main offices in Yerevan. With donors' support, the
12



Government held the custom diagnostic workshop in early 2000, which helped to identify
priority directions for further customs reforms.
32.   The current Government reform program in tax and customs administration
focuses on: (i) developing and implementing an action plan to increase revenue yields
from the largest retail markets in Yerevan; car importation and car ownership and
important excisable goods, such as petrol and tobacco; (ii) improving property tax
administration; (iii) implementing the ASYCUDA system at all Customs points; (iv)
strengthening criminal responsibility for tax evasion; (v) strengthening operations of the
Internal Audit Department in the State Tax Service (STS) and introducing amendments to
the appeal process in the STS; (vi) making further progress in the administration of VAT
refund for exporters; (vii) undertaking a comprehensive review of the existing legal and
regulatory framework for tax policy and tax administration, and adopting a decision on
implementing its recommendations. The Government increased the excise rate for liquid
gas, used as a car fuel, by 100 percent, to become effective on January 1, 2003. This is
important as it eliminates existing cross-fuel distortions in the tax regime and reduces
revenue losses due to fuel substitution.
Financial Sector
33.   The Armenian banks dominate the country's financial sector, with non-bank
financial institutions (NBFIs) having a relatively limited role. The Financial Sector
Assessment Program (FSAP) of January 2001 identified several weaknesses in the
Armenian banking system. The Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) has taken measures to
strengthen and consolidate the banking system by enacting the new Banking and Bank
Bankruptcy Laws, and phasing in increased minimum capital requirements. By the end
2002, about half of the country's 30 banks, with about half of the banking system's total
assets, were financially fragile with low capital, weak management, and poor portfolio
quality. The CBA has placed eight of these banks (which account for 26 percent of total
banking assets) in Temporary Administration and has appointed temporary administrators
to manage these banks. To avoid potential conflict of interest between the supervision
department and the temporary administrators, the CBA has created a new banking
administration department, which is responsible for overseeing the temporary
administration process.
34.   In close cooperation with the IMF, World Bank, and USAID advisers, the CBA
has developed a bank strategy to address issues faced by the problem banks. The strategy
focuses initially on liquidation of the five small banks, and rehabilitation/resolution of the
three large banks under the temporary administration, based on the diagnostic/least cost
study to be completed for these banks by April of 2003. The liquidation of the five small
banks will have little economic costs, given the small size of their assets and liabilities
compared with the whole banking system. Following implementation of the strategy's
initial stage, the CBA will undertake a further review of the remaining weak banks (about
four to five banks) and will carry out its recommendations.
13



35.   Additional steps to strengthen the Armenian banking sector include raising
capitalization and reducing the baseline costs of lending. The banking system's current
small capital base increases the cost and risk of lending, and constrains the banks' ability
to address the financial requirements of SMEs. In this respect, the minimum capital
requirements for existing banks are being raised progressively from the current US$1.3
million to US$5 million by 2005. Additionally, enforcing proper regulations on collateral
is essential in order to reduce the risks of lending to small businesses. The Government,
with support from the USAID, is in the process of upgrading the commercial debt
recovery procedures, including those related to foreclosure of collateral.
36.   While banks dominate lending to larger enterprises, small businesses rely mainly
on special micro-credit programs offered by bilateral donors, NGOs, and IFIs. This is
mainly due to lack of sufficient collateral and financial history, which hampers their
ability to access conventional commercial bank borrowing. While further consolidation
and strengthening of the banking sector will be playing an increasingly larger role in
responding to the financial needs of Armenian SMEs, the development of non-bank
financial instruments, such as leasing and micro-credits, will greatly facilitate small
business access to expensive equipment. The Government has secured enactment of a
number of amendments to various laws to facilitate leasing activities, including
provisions that help to reduce the lessor's risks for re-possessing the leased property in
cases of business default or bankruptcy. In addition, further development of a regulatory
and supervisory environment for operation of the NBFIs is important for advancing the
financial sector reforms. The CBA has focused on establishing an adequate regulatory
and supervisory environment for the NBFIs, based on the Law of NBFIs that was adopted
by the National Assembly in May 2002. This process is accompanied by developing
adequate subsidiary legislation for different types of NBFIs.
37.   The Armenian insurance sector is small and regulated under the 1996 Law on
Insurance, authorizing the Insurance Inspection Office, established in the Ministry of
Finance and Economy in 1996, to act as a regulatory body. The Insurance Inspectorate
Office suffers from under-staffing and under-funding, which has limited the range and
quality of supervision of insurance companies.  The insurance market requires
considerable consolidation, since the minimum capital requirements are too low. In
December 2002, the Government introduced amendments to the 1996 Law on Insurance
and submitted the amendments to Parliament. The amendments and the supporting
implementation regulations, envision a gradual increase in minimum capital requirements
-- to US$300,000 for life insurance; US$200,000 for non-life insurance; anid US$400,000
for exclusively reinsurance companies -- to be implemented by January 1, 2004.
Preparation and approval of the necessary implementation regulatory framework for the
insurance law is to be completed by end April 2003. A USAID consultant has been
assisting the Insurance Inspectorate to strengthen its capacity in on-site and off-site
insurance supervision. The Government is committed to refrain from introducing any
new compulsory insurance schemes before the approval of the satisfactory set of
implementing regulations in the insurance sector.
14



Promoting Public Sector Reforms
Public Administration
38..  The draft PRSP gives a high priority to reforms in public administration and
reducing corruption.  Strengthening public sector management will enable the
Govemment to improve provision of public services and provide favorable conditions for
private sector growth. The World Bank, in cooperation with other donors, supports
preparation of the Public Sector Modernization Project (PSMP), which together with the
recently completed Armenia's Public Expenditure Review, is closely linked with the
proposed SAC5.
39.   In September 1999, the authorities established the Public Sector Reform
Commission to coordinate and lead reforms in the public administration system. The
reform program aims at: (i) rationalizing the Government structure at central, regional,
and local levels through structural and functional reforms, (ii) implementing the Civil
Service Law (CSL), with emphasis on merit-based system and an appropriate pay and
incentive structure, and (iii) improving Government financial management system and
transparency to encourage better information access for the Armenian people and more
public debates about Government activities and functions. In this regard, Parliament has
enacted the Law on Disclosure of Property and Income by High-ranking State Officials.
In January 2002, the CSL became effective and an independent Civil Service Council
was established as the highest administrative and regulatory body for civil service. The
Civil Service Council has already initiated the first training and re-training programs that
will be followed by the civil servants' evaluations. The Government has also completed
the functional and structural reviews of all the ministries and started the reorganization of
the Government structure. In addition, the Government has accelerated the drafting of
supporting regulations for the CSL, which have been mostly completed before the end of
2002. These would constitute the basis for starting implementation of the Government
rightsizing program as well as introducing a merit-based recruitment system with an
appropriate incentive framework in early 2003. Also, the Law on Remuneration of the
Civil Servants was adopted by Parliament in July, 2002, which introduced, starting from
January 2003, a new pay and compensation scheme for civil servants.
40.   The Government plans to complete preparation of the anti-corruption strategy in
early 2003, and based on an action plan, make satisfactory progress in carrying out its
implementation in 2003. The anti-corruption strategy will emphasize deregulation and
streamlining of business regulations, which will be complementary to Government's
efforts to improve the private sector environment. The Government is also committed to
improve transparency and accountability of its spending decisions by strengthening the
Armenian Chamber of Control (COC), which is responsible for external audit of the
budget. Currently, the COC suffers from inadequate capacity to fulfill its responsibilities
due in part to insufficient budget. The Government will develop amendments to the Law
on COC to strengthen the Chamber's independence and will address the need for the
COC capacity building. In addition, the Government plans to rationalize the internal audit
15



functions, strengthen their coordination, remove overlapping activities, and improve their
coordination with the COC's external audit functions.
41.   Based on the principles of the United Nations Commission on International Trade
Law (UNCITRAL), the Government adopted the Public Procurement Law in June of
2000, and established two bodies to regulate and coordinate the country's procurement
activities: the Authorized Body (within the Ministry of Finance and Economy) and the
State Procurement Agency (SPA). The SPA has developed the basic regulatory
framework for implementing the procurement law, has prepared a public procurement
training manual and is establishing a Government procurement website. In the medium
term, the SPA is expected to administer more than half of Government procurement,
while the security ministries and public agencies responsible for procuring emergency
goods and services will be exempted from the SPA rules. Based on the forthcoming
Armenia Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR), the Government is expected
to make further improvements in public procurement procedures and the required legal
framework. By the middle of 2003, the Government will finalize and publish a package
of standard tender and contract documents, undertake an independent review of
efficiency of the SPA operations, and approve a phased implementation strategy for
expansion in e-procurement.
Budget Management System
42.   Armenia's structural reform program gives a high priority to developing a
Medium-Term   Expenditure Framework (MTEF) as an essential instrument in
strengthening its macroeconomic and budget strategy. The World Bank's previous
adjustment operations supported design of the pilot MTEF for 2000-02, which the MOFE
approved and presented to the Government in 1999 for implementation.  The
Government has prepared a new MTEF update for 2003-05 covering more sectors. The
updated MTEF spells out strategic priorities for budgetary allocations and will strengthen
the links between expenditure policies and the PRSP objectives. The MTEF was
approved by the Prime Minister in December 2002 and contributed to the preparation of
2003 annual budget.
43.   The Budget System Law, enacted in 1997, needs amendment in order to modify
the budget calendar and make the MTEF update an integral part of the annual budget
cycle, and strengthen the accountability of budget managers. Furthermore, the current
budget classification, reflected in the Budget System Law, does not provide sufficient
accountability/transparency for budget execution. Following the approach recommended
by the IMF, the Government plans to adopt the new GFS 2001 classification. The
amended Budget System Law will provide the MOFE with the authority to update budget
classifications within the annual budget laws.
44.   Further Government reform measures to upgrade budget management systems
and provide more transparency in public finance include: (i) strengthening the medium-
term budgetary framework and improving the mechanism for registering and monitoring
budget commitments and cash flow management system; (ii) improving classification of
16



the multi-sectoral donor programs in the annual budget law; (iii) disclosing information
on official transfers/grants in previous years' budgets, recording ratified government
grants, and disclosing corresponding reports; (iv) improving the existing procedures for
using the Government Reserve Fund to make it more transparent; (v) improving the
financial performance and monitoring system of commercial companies with state
participation; (vi) adopting a strategy paper with an action plan and cost estimates for
reforms of public sector's accounting in order to bring it in line with international
accounting standards; (vii) approving the Program for the Second Generation Treasury
Reforms and making satisfactory progress in its implementation; and (viii) introducing
program budgeting in preparing the annual budget, starting from the social sectors'
budget.
Advancing Social Sector Reforms
45.   The World Bank's previous adjustment operations in Armenia supported the
Government's program to carry out a number of social sector reform measures, including
reforms in education, health, social protection, and pensions. The country's progress to
date has been satisfactory in a number of critical directions. In line with the draft PRSP's
policies, the Government's primary objective under the proposed SAC5-supported
program is to-advance implementation of earlier reforms as well as to launch reforms in
the new area of university education.
Education
46.   The Government has made considerable progress in reforming the general
education system by improving efficiency and service delivery. The budget share
allocated to education has increased from about 9.5 percent of state budget expenditures
in 1999 to 12.3 percent in 2001, and a new Law on Education has been approved,
providing the legal framework for school decentralization and rationalization. The law
has paved the way for schools to have their own bank accounts, receive specialized
accounting training and accounting handbooks, and be managed by independent, locally
elected school councils. In three administrative regions (marzes), school rationalization
plans have been adopted and their implementation has begun. Despite these institutional
improvements, public expenditure for education is still just over 2 percent of GDP. For a
country of its income level, Armenia's spending on education.still constitutes a small
share of the state budget. This has caused deterioration of facilities, lack of modern
teaching aids, and despite some recent improvements, low teacher salaries.  The
education sector still suffers from inefficiencies, excess capacity and overstaffmg of the
inherited system.
47.   As envisioned in the draft PRSP, the Government plans to undertake major steps
to improve the quality of general education in order to better reflect the requirements of
the new economy. This will be based on creating a coherent national curriculum
framework, which will emphasize core competencies and skills, and establishment of a
national system for standards, assessment and examinations, trusted by the public. With
assistance from donors, the Government is committed to expanding teachers' training,
17



updating teaching practices, and advancing the integration of information communication
technologies in teaching and learning processes. Because the issue of teachers' salaries is
critical for the success of education reforms, the Government has a strategy of addressing
this in the medium term. As an initial step, it was decided to increase the average
teachers' salary by 20 percent and school managers' by 50 percent in 2003. In its reform
effort, the Government will pay special attention to equity in access to quality education
in order to stop the recent trend of declining enrollment ratios, especially in rural areas.
48.   The Government also plans to expand the overall education budget by 16 percent
in 2003 and at the same time, accelerate reforms that would improve the operational
efficiency of general education. It will extend the school-based management and
financing reform to more schools and reinforce reforms in participating schools by
training school directors, board members and accountants. To reduce excess capacity, the
Government will prepare and start implementation of the school rationalization program,
with specific targets for 2003. In particular, the Government expects to close down 37
schools in 2003 and make redundant about 2000 teachers, which would significantly
improve the student-teacher ratio. Most of the redundant teachers will be at retirement
age and the rest will benefit from retraining program and Government assistance in
finding new employment opportunities.  The Government will also clear all the
remaining budget arrears and prevent further arrears in the education sector.
49.   The Government has also been working on a new higher education strategy,
which would address issues of greater autonomy for higher education institutions; the
accreditation system; rationalization of the higher education institutions system and
provision of incentives for their consolidation; and reform of the admissions procedures
to third level education. It is expected that the strategy will be adopted in the first part of
2003. In order to improve the efficiency and accountability of public universities, the
Government will prepare and implement a plan to strengthen accounting and reporting
procedures for higher education institutions.
Health
50.   Public expenditure on health in Armenia is less than 1.4 percent of GDP,
indicating severe under-funding compared with the other CIS countries (on average 3.6
percent of GDP). During the past few years, the Government has initiated reforms in this
sector by introducing a program budgeting approach based on a minimum Basic Benefit
Package (BBP) of services financed by the State. Under the SAC4 supported program,
the Government adopted and started implementation of hospital optimization plans for all
regions in April 2001, which aimed at a gradual decline in hospital capacity that was
significantly exceeding both the needs and current financing capabilities of Armenia.
The number of hospital beds outside of Yerevan declined by 52 percent and staff level
was reduced by 15 percent during the first 15 months of program implementation. The
number of contracts for provision of public health services reduced from 550 in 2001 to
410 in 2002, with most of the reduction resulting from mergers of health facilities. These
efforts will continue in the medium-term in order to reduce the capacity in the sector to
per capita levels at least comparable with those in the developed countries. Additionally,
18



the Government approved a new Charter for the State Health Agency to improve budget
management and accountability in the sector.
51.   As part of the PRSP process, the Government decided on a major improvement in
the financing of public health services in 2003. This improvement will 'derive from three
simultaneous initiatives introduced in the 2003 draft budget: (i) overall increase in the
health budget by 27 percent; (ii) expansion in the share of the health budget spent on
primary health; and (iii) adjustments in BBP coverage to improve targeting and to ensure
that a larger portion of the budget is spent on services provided to the poor. In addition, in
the course of 2003, the Government is committed to clear the rest of earlier accumulated
budget arrears in health and prevent accumulation of new arrears in the sector.
52.   In order to improve the targeting of public expenditure on health, in 2001, the
Ministry of Health expanded the eligibility for the free-of-charge BBP to those
individuals that receive the means-tested Poverty Family Benefit (PFB). While this
expanded the number of eligible population, it dramatically improved access to primary
health for the poor. As suggested by the recent household survey, despite a decline in
overall utilization rates (the fraction of those sick or injured that sought health care) in
Annenia between 1998 and 2001 (from 38 to 36 percent), utilization rates among those
eligible for the PFB increased from 32 to 47 percent. Based on improved budgeting in
2003, the Government plans to make the BBP more transparent and sustainable by raising
reimbursement rates closer to the real cost of service provision. It will also carry out
several additional adjustments in the BBP coverage in order to make it more realistic
within the existing budget constraints.
53.   In order to bring more transparency and credibility to the system, the Government
plans'to introduce a formal co-payment scheme in the health sector. Currently, in most
cases patients make informal payments to compensate health providers for services.
Given the potential risk that the co-payment scheme could become an additional burden
on patients, rather than a substitute for informal payments, the Government plans initially
to pilot a co-payment scheme in the second part of 2003 and assess the outcome before its
national introduction.
54.   The Government health reform program also emphasizes a need for additional
rationalization of the system, which includes further development of the primary health
care system, while merging and downsizing the secondary care system. In December
2002, the Government adopted a hospital optimization plan for Yerevan city, with
specific targets for capacity reduction, and will be committed to make satisfactory
progress to implement the plan in 2003. The concept of the optimization plan is based on
the merger of several hospitals and the provision of incentives to the hospital managers to
downsize and increase the efficiency of their facilities. The sectoral rationalization
strategy focuses on the introduction of a family physician-based primary health care
reform as well as improvements in the quality of primary health care through training and
retraining of primary health care staff. The Government also aims at increasing the
efficiency of public spending, through implementation of a plan to improve public
19



hospital financial management, accounting, and financial reporting and preparation of a
package of necessary regulatory amendments.
Social Protection
55.   Based on the 1998/99 Integrated Living Conditions Survey (ILCS), more than
half of Armenia's population-55 percent-was poor, of which over one half was
extremely poor. The rapid and sustained real output growth since 1999 has positively
impacted poverty indicators. While preliminary estimates based on the 2001 ILCS show
a significant reduction in poverty, its level (at 48 percent for the overall poverty and 20
percent for the extreme poverty) remains high. Given the country's limited fiscal
resources, the Government's priority is to strengthen the social safety net by focusing on
more efficient use of available funds. Since 1999, the Government has replaced a range
of fragmented cash and traditional non-cash benefits and privileges with better-targeted
family poverty cash benefit. The Government has undertaken beneficiary assessments,
collected detailed data on poverty benefit recipients, in order to facilitate development of
technical work necessary for improving the benefit targeting. The Government has also
registered the family poverty benefit applicants to strengthen benefit administration. The
proxy-means targeting mechanism used for the family poverty benefit has been quite
efficient and that the family poverty benefit program has made considerable contribution
to recent improvements in poverty profile.
56.   The Government is committed to the continued provision of sufficient funding for
the poverty family benefit and other social safety nets programs. The Government plans
to increase the average size of the poverty family benefit by about 11 percent starting on
July 1, 2003, and to channel this increase to families with children, with the per child
benefit increasing from ADR 1500 to ADR 2000 a month. The Government is
committed to maintaining the number of recipients of poverty benefits so that its level is
roughly unchanged in 2003, and to further increase the average poverty benefit in 2004,
simultaneously with the minimum wage increases. In 2003, the Government plans to
further improve targeting of the poverty family benefit by introducing additional
adjustments in targeting formula based on the 2001 ILCS data. Local Government
participation in the appeal process and benefit monitoring will be expanded. The
Government also plans to enhance its capacity to monitor and evaluate poverty and the
ongoing social protection programs through regular household surveys, in-depth data
analysis, establishment of the new management information system, and introduction of
the income-reporting system based on Personal Identification Numbers (PiNs). In
addition, a new National Strategy for Reforming Child Welfare Policies will be designed
and adopted. The strategy will focus in particular on development of community-based
social work and social care services, including family based care for vulnerable families
and individuals. A better targeting of the poverty benefit, sufficient funding, and
adequate coverage of the extremely poor, should contribute significantly to
Government's efforts to alleviate poverty among those whose consumption falls below
the food poverty line.
20



57.   For the time being, the gender issues are not widespread in Armenia. The law
explicitly endorses non-discrimination based on gender, and the Poverty Update and
research by other donors do not point to substantial gender differences and discrimination
in the labor market, and formation of human capital, etc. In fact, the "Gender in
Transition" report indicated that in Armenia the labor force participation gap has
decreased more rapidly than on average in the ECA region. However, other measures of
gender differences have not been examined in detail as yet. In addition, it seems that
family abuse and violence are problems that need to be addressed, and the Government
has been trying to tackle the issue through development of community-based social work
and care services. While Government's policy in education is focused currently on
providing full coverage for both boys and girls by mandatory school education, girls in
Armenia have higher enrollment rates in both secondary and higher education. In the
health sector, there is some concern that the abortion rate is among the highest in the
region. The Government's system of poverty monitoring is gender disaggregated in its
data collection and reporting, which provides a good basis for monitoring the gender-
related poverty issues, access to basic public services, and the labor market participation.
Pension Reform
58.   In close consultation with civil society, the Government has prepared a draft
pension law with several important features, including the introduction of an equal
retirement age for men and women at 63 and elimination of most early retirement
provisions. The new pension formula links more strongly actual contributions with the
size of social insurance benefits, and also provides a minimum pension guarantee for
elderly. The new formula is also gender neutral, i.e. it treats both genders equally. Given
the current low level of average pensions and the demographic profile, the pension
system remains sustainable and fiscally viable. The Government is committed to
continuing to pay the pensions on time, maintaining their real value by indexing the
pension to inflation rates, and increasing pensions gradually within the available budget.
The Government's priorities for 2003 include: (i) enacting a new pension law in early
2003, preparing implementation regulations, and making satisfactory progress in carrying
out the pension law; (ii) establishing an action plan and launching a pilot to implement
the PINs and individual accounts within the mandatory social insurance system, and
making satisfactory progress in implementing both the PINs and individual accounts; and
(iii) shifting social pension financing from the Social Insurance Fund to the regular state
budget, which would release additional funds to increase in the regular old-age pensions.
These reform measures are expected to result in increased efficiency and effectiveness of
the mandatory social insurance, which ultimately should lead to increased pensions and
higher protection of the elderly against poverty. The program of social pensions would
continue to provide support to the elderly, who would not be qualified for an old-age
pension and have no means to support themselves, as well as to other vulnerable groups
such as invalids since childhood.
21



Program Monitoring and Evaluation
59.   The SAC5 supported reform measures will be monitored and evaluated during
project implementation by periodic surveys and assessments. The Government has
introduced similar monitoring and evaluation mechanisms under SAC4. The second
annual monitoring and evaluation survey of 200 enterprises conducted in September
2001, showed that recent Government efforts to address some of the bottlenecks in the
business environment has already brought positive results. As was reflected in Box 1, the
managers who participated in the survey reported an increased average level of
satisfaction with the business environment. The Government will undertake regular
household expenditure surveys to provide the necessary information on poverty and
access to the basic social and utility services. The Government is also committed to
continuing its intensive. dialogue with the civil society on its reform program agenda.
The Government will provide the general public with broad access to discussions and
decisions by the High Level Business Council and the various PRSP working groups.
60.   The Government plans to monitor and evaluate the proposed SAC5 supported
reform program, using targets and benchmarks, including those reflected in Annex II. A
comprehensive assessment of the progress in reform program, within the context of the
agreed reform targets, will be undertaken in the third quarter of 2003 and in early 2004 in
order to evaluate the need for revised priorities of the reform efforts, and assess if the
next phase of IDA support to Armenia under a possible PRSC is warranted.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Objectives and Rationale for Association Involvement
61.   The proposed SAC5 supports the Government's efforts in: (i) developing the
private sector and accelerating public enterprise reform to facilitate sustainable growth
and poverty reduction; (ii) promoting public sector reforms to strengthen governance and
improve efficiency in utilizing existing budgetary resources; and (iii) advancing social
sector reforms (including education, health, social protection, and pension) to ensure
social sustainability of the reform program. The proposed SAC5 supports the main
elements of the Government's reform program outlined in the draft PRSP, and is fully
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Executive Board
on May 22, 2001. The CAS particularly emphasizes private sector development,
improving public sector management, and securing social reform's sustainability, all
critical for the success of the PRSP. SAC5's preparation was envisioned in the CAS, as
was indicated in para. 6, and reform progress has been consistent with the Base Case
Triggers in the CAS as reflected in Box 2.
B. Benefits and Risks
62.   The proposed SAC5 will provide foreign exchange to support balance of
payments and non-inflationary budget financing. Additionally, by supporting the
Government's policy to eliminate barriers for private sector development, and advancing
22



social sector reforms, the proposed SAC5 will help to sustain the pace of economic
recovery and poverty reduction.
63.   The proposed SAC5 faces four main risks. The first risk is associated with a
possible weakening in Government's commitment to SAC5 supported reform measures.
The second risk relates to macroeconomic instability caused by fiscal weaknesses,
especially in revenue performance. The third risk concerns Government's capacity to
carry out particular reform measures under SAC5, such as improved tax and customs
administration. Measures to mitigate these risks include: (i) Government commitment to
macroeconomic stability including recent agreements under the PRGF program; (ii) close
working relationship between the World Bank and the Government, supported by various
economic and sector works, including the recent Armenia Growth Study, which has
facilitated Government understanding of the main strategic policy priorities; (iii)
mobilizing a multi-donor technical assistance package to carry out the proposed SAC5;
and (iv) strong up-front policy conditionality for the proposed operation. A fourth risk
relates to potential political instability, to which the Caucasus region has been historically
vulnerable.  While this is not considered likely at this time, if this risk were to
materialize, SAC5's implementation would become difficult and its temporary cessation,
along with the supported reform program, might be unavoidable.
C. Coordination with the IMF
64.   The Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), which was approved by the
IMF's Board of Executive Directors on May 23, 2001, supports the Government program
by focusing on improving revenue mobilization, reducing the energy sector deficit, and
clearing the Government arrears to ensure fiscal sustainability. The performance of the
PRGF in the first year was mixed, due to concerns about fiscal situation. The program's
performance improved during the first half of 2002, as the Government took measures to
improve revenue mobilization, reduce Government arrears, and improve prospects for the
energy sector. On September 25, 2002, the IMF's Executive Board completed the
PRGF's first and second reviews and approved the Government's program for the period
of July 2002-June 2003.  The Government's program aims at increasing social
expenditures in accordance with the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework and the
PRSP. Other priority reform measures include improving tax and custom administration,
resolving problem banks and introducing more transparency and improved governance.
The PRGF's reform measures complement those supported under the proposed SAC5.
D. Credit Conditions
65.   Annex II details the proposed SAC5 conditions prior to the Board presentation
and release of the second tranche, which are summarized below.
Conditions for Board Presentation. The Government ofArmenia (GOA):
(1) Adopted the Action Plan for improving the business and investment
environment (see Annex III).
23



(2) Submitted the new Bankruptcy Law to the National Assembly.
(3) Submitted the Public Auction Law to the National Assembly.
(4) Drafted and submitted a number of amendments to various laws to facilitate
leasing activities.
(5) Strengthened protection of intellectual property rights and developed
regulatory procedures to implement the 1999 Law on Intellectual Property.
(6) Promoted privatization of urban land used by commercial entities.
(7) Simplified the procedures for real estate and land registration.
(8) Simplified the procedures for sales of collateral to reduce implicit costs of
lenders.                             /
(9) Developed and approved a plan to accelerate reorganization and liquidation
of non-viable SOEs, and selected a group of 20 medium and large SOEs for
liquidation within the plan.
(10) Made satisfactory progress to initiate the liquidation of the 20 medium and
large SOEs according to the plan, including adoption of Government decisions on
liquidation of at least 2 enterprises from this group.
(11) Made adequate provisions in 2003 budget to support the financial recovery
plan of the water and transport sectors to ensure their full payments to the energy
sector.
(12) Adopted the Action Plan for reforming tax and customs administration (see
Annex IV)
(13) Established an adequate regulatory and supervisory environment for the
non-bank financial institutions.
(14) Developed specific strategic proposals for resolution of all three large
problem banks under temporary administration (Credit Yerevan, Ardshin and
Armcommunication bank) and initiated a diagnosticAeast cost study for them.
(15) Revoked the licenses and appointed liquidators for three small banks under
temporary administration.
(16) Amended the Insurance Law.
24



(17) Adopted regulations to support implementation of the Civil Service Law and
the Law on Remuneration of Civil Servants.
(18) Approved an Action Plan for improving budget management systems (see
Annex V).
(19) Increased the level of budget financing of health, education and social
protection.
(20) Adopted the school rationalization program with specific targets for 2002
and 2003.
(21) Increased the state budget allocation for primary and secondary education
and improved teachers' salaries.
(22) Developed an action plan for clearing the accumulated arrears in the
education sector and prevented further arrears in this sector.
(23) Prepared a plan to introduce accounting and reporting requirements for
higher education institutions.
(24) Submitted the draft Higher Education Law to the National Assembly, and
developed amendments to the Law on State Noncommercial Organizations to
make it consistent with the requirements of the new Higher Education Law.
(25) Adopted the hospital optimization plan for Yerevan with specific targets for
capacity reduction.
(26) Developed a draft action plan to improve public hospital financial
management, accounting, and financial reporting and prepared a package of
necessary regulatory amendments.
(27) Developed an action plan for clearing the accumulated arrears in the health
sector and prevented further arrears in this sector.
(28) Adopted a Government Decision to introduce further reforms in the Basic
Benefit Package in the health sector.
(29) Improved targeting of the poverty benefits.
(30) Improved poverty monitoring by introducing a regular household survey.
(31) Adopted a new pension law.
(32) Established an action plan and launched a pilot for implementation of
Personal Identification Numbers (PINs).
25



(33) Moved financing of social pensions from the Social Insurance Fund to the
regular budget.
Conditions for Second Tranche Release. The GOA has:
(1) Submitted to the National Assembly a new Labor Code in substance as
agreed with the Association.
(2) Demonstrated satisfactory progress in implementation of the medium-term
action plan for improving the business and investment environment.
(3) Demonstrated satisfactory progress in implementation of the medium-term
action plan for reforming tax and customs administration.
(4) Demonstrated satisfactory progress in implementation of the medium-term
action plan for improving budget management systems.
(5) Sustained a satisfactory environment for operations of the privatized firms
in the power and utility sectors as indicated by (i) establishing a single utility
regulator, adopting the necessary legal framework to ensure its financial
autonomy and transferring economic regulations of energy, water and telecom
sectors to the single regulator; (ii) carrying out the agreed Performance
Monitoring and Public Dissemination Program; and (iii) ensuring the privatized
power distribution company (ArmElNet)'s compliance with its License.
(6) Completed a diagnostic/least cost study for the Credit Yerevan, Ardshin and
Armcommunication banks and made satisfactory progress with implementation of
the resolution strategy formulated for these banks; and revoked the licenses and
appointed liquidators for the remaining (United and Credit Service) banks under
temporary administration.
(7) Made satisfactory progress in implementation of the School Rationalization
Program for 2003; and made satisfactory progress in implementation of the
medium-term action plan for improving the financial management, accounting
and financial reporting for higher education.
(8) Made satisfactory progress in the implementation of the Hospital
Optimization Plan for Yerevan; and adopted, and subsequently demonstrated
satisfactory progress in implementation of the medium-term action plan for
improving the financial management, accounting and financial reporting for
public hospitals satisfactory to the Association.
(9) Demonstrated satisfactory progress in implementation of the new Pension
Law, including promulgation of implementing regulations, establishing individual
26



pension accounts, and improving enforcement of regulations on pension
contributions.
E. Implementation
66.   The proposed SAC5 supports the Government reform program described above.
The proposed credit of SDR30.2 million (US$40.0 million equivalent) will be made to
the Republic of Armenia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE),
on standard IDA terms, including 40 year maturity and a 10 year grace period.
67.   The proposed credit is expected to have two equal tranches of US$20 million
equivalent. The first tranche will become available upon credit effectiveness. The
second tranche will be disbursed on fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions
outlined above, if general progress in implementing the Letter of Development Policy
(LDP), including attainment of its macroeconomic stability objectives, is also
satisfactory.
68.   A Government Commission, chaired by the Minister of Finance and Economy,
has been given primary responsibility for coordinating the Government's actions in
preparing and implementing the proposed credit. The Commission has established
several working groups to review, prepare, and follow up on implementation of the action
plans and timetables. The working groups have coordinated closely with the preparation
of the PRSP and with donors, including the DFID, EBRD, EU, IMF, and USAID.
Additionally, the reform measures supported by the proposed SAC5 will be monitored
and evaluated through periodic surveys and assessments.  A set of performance
indicators, as reflected in Annex II and agreed during negotiations, will guide the
supervision and impact assessments of the proposed credit.
69.   The proposed SAC5 reform program encompasses a wide range of policy
measures. Some of the required technical assistance has been provided by the SAC5
PHRD grant, PRSP grants, PPIAF grant, and PSD PHRD grants, and through a number
of World Bank projects currently under preparation, including the PSMP and the second
education and health projects. Implementation of the proposed SAC5 would also benefit
from the Pilot Reforms in the Childcare System grant under the Japan Social
Development Fund, as well as from the new Dutch Government's grant in support of
public sector reforms. World Bank related projects and supporting grants would be
complemented by technical assistance financed by other donors. Some of these donors,
including USAID, have already financed technical assistance to strengthen the
Government capacity to carry out specific elements of the SAC5 program. Additional
budget support from the European donors, in the form of SAC5 co-financing, based on
previous experiences with similar arrangements under SAC3 and SAC4, would be
requested if necessary.
27



F. Financial Arrangements
Disbursement
70.   Disbursement under the proposed SAC5 will be made to the Deposit Account of
the MOFE established at the CBA. Upon notification by the Association of the release of
each tranche, credit proceeds will be deposited in this account. The proposed credit will
be disbursed according to the Bank's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment
operations. The disbursement will not be linked to specific purchases. If, after deposit in
this account, the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance
items imported from non-member countries, or for goods or services in the standard
negative list), the Association will require the Government to either: (a) return that
amount to the account, for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to
the Association, in which case the Association will cancel an equivalent sum of the
undisbursed amount of the credit.
71.   The MOFE's account will be credited with the dram equivalent at the official
exchange rate on that day. The official exchange rate to be applied will be determined by
the inter-bank foreign currency auction market The Government will thereby receive
non-inflationary budgetary support The Government intends to use the proposed credit
proceeds to help meet its general budget expenditures, including debt service payments.
The foreign exchange proceeds of the proposed SAC5 will be sold by the CBA or held in
reserves, in accordance with the objectives of monetary policy. The MOFE and the CBA
will have adequate financial management systems in place, including accounting,
reporting, auditing, and internal controls for the Deposit Account, and will maintain
records of all transactions under the credit in accordance with the sound accounting
practices. The procedures used by the CBA for sales of its foreign exchange are viewed
as transparent and the safeguards have been recognized as being adequate. The CBA
adopted the IAS in 1996 and has been audited by internationally recognized auditing
firms. The Association will receive an audit report from an independent auditor after
each tranche has been disbursed, certifying that the foreign exchange proceeds were used
by the CBA according to the objectives of the adopted monetary program. The IMF has
intensified its safeguards assessments, and there will be consultations with the IMF, and
disbursements under the credit will depend upon a continuing favorable assessment by
the IMF of the country's reform program.
72.   The Armenian Public Expenditure Review of September 2002 has provided
recommendations to improve the budget management system. An IDF grant will support
further capacity building in the design and implementation of the pilot expansion in the
existing treasury system, to complement the previous support provided to the CBA and
the treasury under SATAC and SATAC2. A review of the Observance of Standards and
Codes was completed by the IMF in February 2002, and concluded that although
considerable progress has been made to improve fiscal transparency, a number of
weaknesses remain in audit functions. Clearer rules on public procurement system are
needed, and are being supported under the proposed SAC5.
28



Accounts, Auditing, and Closing Date
73.   The Association requires audit of the Deposit Account, in accordance with
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association. Audit reports should be furnished to the Association as soon as
possible, but not later than four months after the date of Association's request for such
audit. Terms of reference for independent auditors and financial reports will be
submitted to the Association and discussed with the Government. The proposed credit
closing date is June 30, 2004.
G. Poverty Implications and Environmental Impact
74.   The proposed credit would support improvements in targeting poverty benefits to
the poorest groups. In addition, it would support measures to expand the public provision
of basic education and health, and improve equitability of access to those services,
especially for the poor. The agreed actions in the area of pension reform will result in an
increase in the average size of the old age pension.
75.   In accordance with the Association's Operational Policies (OP 4.01), the proposed
credit has been placed in Category C.
29



4Uf:U'qbS
PRIME MINISTER
Dear Ms. Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
The attached Letter of Development Policy outlines the program to strengthen
prospects for sustained economic growth and poverty reduction over the
medium term in the Republic of Armenia. We request the World Bank to
support this program with Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit of US $40 million.
The program of measures in the Letter is intended to accelerate economic
growth maintaining prudent macroeconomic policy stance while continuing to
deepen the comprehensive structural reforms.
Yours sincerely,
Andranik Margaryan
Ms. Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
Country Director for Armenia
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
06  ZY 240                R
Yerevan, Republic of Arrnenia



Annex I
January 9, 2003
Republic of Armenia
Letter of Development Policy
1.    The main objective of the Government's medium-term economic reform program
is to strengthen prospects for sustained economic growth and poverty reduction. The
Government aims at maintaining the recent high rates of GDP growth, which reached 8
percent on average in 2000-02. Building on our achievements, the Government is
committed to maintaining macroeconomic stability, deepening the structural reform
program and sustaining the liberal economic policies. Our structural reform program
emphasizes further development of the private sector and acceleration of enterprise sector
reform, promotion of reform in public administration and budget management systems,
and further advancement in social sector reforms to make growth economically and
politically sustainable.
Poverty Reduction Strategy
2.    Poverty reduction strategy is a central element of our reform program. The
strategy has been developed in close consultation with civil society, NGOs, and
representatives of the donor community.  We have prepared the Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), which was discussed by the World Bank and the
IMF Executive Boards in May 2001. We plan to complete the preparation of PRSP in the
first part of 2003. We have made considerable effort to ensure a participatory process in
preparing the -full PRSP, which aims at macroeconomic stability, improving fiscal
performance through upgrading expenditure management systems and revenue
mobilization, strengthening governance, promoting private sector investment and
advancing social sector reforms. We aim at establishing close links between the PRSP
and the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework to ensure that the PRSP's policy
objectives remain within the medium-term fiscal resources availability. This Letter of
Development Policy should be considered against the background of the PRSP, which
provides a broader perspective for our overall poverty reduction strategy.
Macroeconomic Stability
3.    The Government's medium-term    macroeconomic policies are based on
achievements in 2001 and 2002. They seek to sustain economic growth, attain an
average real GDP growth of at least 6 percent per year during 2003-07, and maintain an
annual inflation rate below 3 percent a year. Growth is expected to be export driven,
reducing the current account deficit from 8.7 percent of GDP in 2002 to 6.8 percent in
2007, while maintaining the Central Bank's gross external reserves at a level not less than



the equivalent of 3 months of imports. The Government plans to achieve these targets
through commitment to a firm monetary policy and a flexible exchange rate regime.
4.    The Government will continue its fiscal adjustment by increasing tax revenues by
0.5 percent of GDP a year in 2003-04, and strengthening expenditure discipline. It aims
at keeping the overall budget deficit at about 2.5 percent of GDP in the medium term,
while eliminating quasi-fiscal deficits in the energy and infrastructure sectors. It also
intends to increase the share of social expenditures in the state budget. The Government
is firnly committed to eliminating all domestic payments arrears and will refrain from
accumulating any new budget arrears during this period. With our policy of maintaining
a moratorium on non-concessional borrowing and the anticipated favorable export
performance, the country's external debt profile will improve. We expect the present
value of external debt to decline from 135 percent of exports in 2000, to less than 100
percent by 2010. As a share of fiscal revenues, the present value of external debt is
expected to fall from 177 percent in 2000, to less than 150 percent in 2010. We intend to
implement the recent inter-state agreement on the debt-for-equity swap, which will
provide for exchange of our almost US$100 million debt to Russia with Russian firms'
equity participation in Armenian enterprises. This should eliminate the most expensive
part of our external debt and reduce the budget's external interest payments.
Improving Business and Legal Environment
5.    We consider private sector development to be the main pillar of our growth
strategy, and will make additional steps towards improving the business and legal
environment for both foreign and domestic investors. The Government will continue
strengthening the legal framework for private sector operation. We will draft and submit
to Parliament a new Labor Code in the first part of 2003, which will remove over-
regulation in the labor market and will introduce a framework to protect flexibility of
labor contracts. To strengthen discipline in the enterprise sector and improve contract
enforcement, the Government has finalized preparation of the new draft of Bankruptcy
Law and has submitted it to the National Assembly in late December 2002. The new law
will be fully consistent with the recently introduced changes in other basic economic
laws, including the Civil Code. We will also prepare the necessary implementation
regulations to streamline enforcement mechanisms for bankruptcy. The Government has
submitted the draft Public Auction Law to the National Assembly, and will take other
steps to simplify the procedures for the sales of collateral in order to reduce the implicit
costs of lenders. In order to further encourage private sector investments, particularly in
the mining sector, we plan to ensure that the new Concession Law is fully consistent with
the best intemational practice, and adopt appropriate implementation regulations. Based
on the recently adopted package of legal amendments that was developed in close
consultations with the private sector, we are committed to strengthen protection of
intellectual property rights. At the same time, we will continue our efforts to facilitate
development of the land markets, including through continuation of the auctions program
for sales of agricultural plots and expansion of sales of urban land to privatized
enterprises.
2



6.    In consultation with the private sector, the Government will make further steps to
reduce costs of doing business in Armenia and will strengthen the functioning of the High
Business Council, chaired by the Prime Minister. A recent presidential decree has
broadened the Council's membership and provided for more participation of small
private businesses. The Government, with support from the World Bank and other
donors, will facilitate capacity building in the Armenian Development Agency (ADA) to
ensure that it improves provision of services and up-to-date information to potential
investors and responds effectively to private sector's inquiries and concerns. We are also
giving a high priority to introduction of simple and transparent urban development
procedures.  The Government will reduce licensing requirements in the urban
development area and will introduce the necessary amendments to the Law on Urban
Development. Before the end of 2002, the Government introduced a simplified licensing
regime for Internet service providers. In order to expand credit opportunities for SMEs,
we plan to establish a movable property registry and to make it fully operational. To
reduce costs of business transactions, the Government will review the current
requirements for use of the company seal, identify cases in which application of seal
should not be mandatory, and will move towards gradual elimination of mandatory seal
requirements. The Government will continue a current practice of comprehensive annual
business surveys and, based on the analysis of their results, will develop further
recommendations for improving the business environment in 2003 and later years.
Strengthening Public Enterprise Reform
7.    The Government is determined to find appropriate exit strategies for public
enterprises that fail to be privatized.  According to Armenia's privatization law,
enterprises that are not sold following three attempts at privatization are subject to
reorganization or liquidation. We will give high priority to developing a program to
accelerate reorganization and liquidation of non-viable SOEs, and will complete the
bankruptcy/liquidation procedures for a number of these SOEs before the, summer of
2003. Furthermore, the Government will upgrade monitoring financial performance of
commercial companies with state participation and improve the reporting by such
enterprises to the Ministry of Finance and Economy.
Advancing Reforms in Public Infrastructure
8.    The Government will continue to give high priority to improving the financial
viability of the SOEs, particularly those operating in the energy and infrastructure sectors
that contribute to quasi-fiscal deficit. We will finalize a new Infrastructure Financial
Rehabilitation Plan by early 2003, and carry its implementation in 2003, to ensure these
enterprises' financial viability and reduce both fiscal and quasi-fiscal subsidies to them.
To this end, we have made adequate provisions in our 2003 budget to support the
financial recovery plan of water and transport sectors (Metro), to ensure their full
payments to the energy sector, and to facilitate timely payments by budget organizations
to the energy sector.
3



9.    The Government plans to develop and adopt measures to reform mechanisms for
road maintenance financing by introducing a system of road user fees and earmarking a
portion of the existing fuel taxes. Additionally, the Government has developed and
published a schedule for irrigation tariff increases in 2003-2007, to provide full cost
recovery tariffs in the irrigation system by 2007.
10.   Following on the recent completion of privatization of the consolidated Electricity
Distribution Company (ArmElNet), the Government is determined to continue its efforts
to maintain a satisfactory environment for operations of the privatized firms in the energy
sector. In particular, the Government will provide the necessary support to enforce the
ArmElNet's right to disconnect customers for non-payments. The Government will
develop and implement a Public Awareness Campaign, which will spell out a longer-term
strategy for public dissemination of the energy sector's performance and customer
satisfaction with energy services. At the same time, the Government intends to enforce
the ArmEINet's full compliance with its License. The Government is also determined to
transform the existing Energy Regulation Commission into a single utility regulator,
develop and adopt the necessary legal framework and provisions to ensure the regulator's
financial autonomy, and adopt an action plan to transfer economic regulations of energy,
water, and telecom sectors to the single utility regulator.
Improving Tax and Customs Administration
11.    Improving tax collection remains an important part of the core Government
reform program. The Government intends to evaluate the most significant existing
revenue gaps and develop specific plans to increase revenue yields from the largest retail
markets in Yerevan, from car importation and car ownership, and from the main
excisable goods, including petrol and tobacco. The Government has also decided to
increase the rate for presumptive tax on liquid gas by 100 percent starting from early
2003. We also plan to improve property tax administration by adopting the necessary
amendments to the Property Tax Law and related regulations, introducing a new
valuation formula based on property market value. The Government will submit legal
amendments to ensure gradual expansion in the coverage of mandatory income
declarations.
12.   It is important for us to strengthen criminal liability for tax evasion by amending
the existing Criminal Code and completing the new Criminal Code that is under
preparation. At the same time, we are committed to improving the operations of the
Intemal Audit Department in the State Tax Service. Closer collaboration with taxpayers
will remain an important element of our tax reform strategy, and we intend to introduce,
in consultation with taxpayers, the necessary amendments in the appeal process in the
State Tax Service. Refunding the VAT to exporters is another Government priority, and
we plan to make further progress in this area. We intend to introduce a registration
system and quarterly reporting on the outstanding VAT balances due to the private sector,
and will explore the possibility of making relevant VAT credits available to software
exporters.
4



13.   The Government is committed to upgrading the regulatory framework and
simplifying the administrative procedures governing customs operations, which would
help reduce the costs of clearance of goods by importers and exporters. The necessary
amendments to the Customs Code have already been introduced to make it consistent
with WTO requirements, including those that would allow for self-assessment by
importers and their agents. This paved the way for completion of our full accession to
the WTO, which was adopted by the WTO General Council on December 10, 2002. We
also intend to reduce the number of goods that are subject to mandatory certification at
the border and introduce a single payment mechanism at border crossings for traders. For
small import transactions undertaken by individual traders, we shall simplify the
declaration procedures and introduce a simplified duty assessment system. We shall also
simplify authorization procedures and reduce the required documents for exporters. The
Government will introduce, within the program of international technical assistance, an
automatic system for risk-based selective control of incoming cargo, and will complete
implementation of the ASYCUDA system at all Customs points.
14.   The Government attaches considerable importance to improving communications
between customs officials and the private sector, and has made the necessary
arrangements to broaden the Customs Committee's advisory board of private sector
representatives to provide wider representation of importers and exporters in the group.
At the same time, we have improved public access to customs regulations by launching a
website of the Customs State Committee. We will also develop a customs manual and
intend to place most information on the existing tax regulations and regulatory changes at
the website of the State Tax Service.
15.   During 2003, the Government will undertake, using donor assistance, a
comprehensive review of the existing legal and regulatory framework for tax policy and
tax administration, and will adopt a decision on implementing its recommendations.
Financial Sector
16.   The Government is committed to further strengthen the financial sector. We are
determined to address the problems faced by the banking system and will develop and
implement specific strategic proposals for the resolution of the problem banks, starting
with the three large banks that are currently under temporary administration. The Central
Bank of Armenia is committed to completing the diagnostic/least-cost study for these
three large banks and make satisfactory progress in implementing the resolution strategy
formulated for them. For smaller banks, currently under temporary administration, the
Central Bank plans to revoke their licenses and appoint liquidators for them by the end of
February 2003. We also plan to develop an adequate regulatory and supervisory
environment for the non-bank financial institutions, which would prevent the
continuation of operations of weak banks as reorganized non-bank financial institutions.
17.   The Government intends to accelerate development of the insurance sector that
would enable entrepreneurs to better manage their business risks. In this respect, we will
amend the 1996 Insurance Law and introduce the necessary regulations for its
5



implementation. The minimum capital requirements for insurance companies will be
increased gradually, according to an agreed schedule, and the Government will refrain
from introducing any new compulsory insurance schemes until a stronger regulatory
framework is in place. Meanwhile, we are planning to strengthen the capacity of the
Insurance Inspectorate and allocate adequate budget and personnel to enable this agency
to expand its activities.
Public Administration Reforms
18.   The Government gives high priority to reforms in public administration to
improve governance, reduce corruption, and improve delivery of core public services.
The Government plans to make specific steps to rationalize the Government structure at
central, regional, and local levels.  We will adopt new regulations to support
implementation of the Civil Service Law and the Law on Remuneration of Civil Servants,
with a strong emphasis given to merit-based recruitment and an appropriate pay and
incentive structure.  At the same time, the Government continues to emphasize
transparency, provision of better information to the Armenian public, and improved
public discussion of the Government activities and functions. The Government will also
pay special attention to rationalization of the existing internal and external auditing
agencies and functions and will support the enhancement of the independence of the
Chamber of Control (COC) as a supreme external auditing institution.
19.   The Government adopted the Public Procurement Law in June of 2000 and has
already established two bodies, which regulate and coordinate procurement activities in
the country: the Authorized Body (within the Ministry of Finance and Economy) and the
State Procurement Agency (SPA). We will undertake an evaluation of SPA's functions
and capacity and plan to make necessary improvements in the regulatory framework of
public procurement, based on the agreed action plan of the Armenia Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) that is being undertaken in close collaboration
with the World Bank in 2003.
20.   The Government has recently completed, in broad consultations with the civil
society and with donors' assistance, an anti-corruption strategy. We intend to carry out
the strategy's recommendations based on an action plan that will be finalized during early
2003. In particular, we shall give high priority to addressing the corruption-related issues
in the areas of tax and customs administration, and in the judicial system. We intend to
enhance the judges' accountability and make their rulings more transparent.
Budget Management Systems
21.   The Government is committed to strengthening its medium-term budgetary
strategy, based on expanded capacity for updating the medium-term expenditure
framework (MTEF). The Government is determined to amend the Law on Budget
Systems to introduce changes in the budget calendar that will make the annual MTEF
update an integral part of the budget cycle. We will develop the MTEF guidelines for the
line ministries for the annual MTEF update, give priority to adequate disclosure of both
6



2003-05 and 2004-06 MTEFs, and make the respective annual budgets for 2003 and 2004
consistent with the main MTEF parameters. To further improve budget programming,
the Ministry of Finance and Economy will establish a database on information required in
the budget programming process. We prepared the annual budget for 2003 in social
sectors in accordance with program budget classification and are determined to continue
this practice for the 2004 budget.
22.   The Government will take additional steps to strengthen budget discipline and
improve budget transparency, including through implementation of recommendations of
the recent Armenia Public Expenditure Review. We will improve the mechanisms for
registering and monitoring budget commitments and upgrade the cash flow management
system. The current classification system of budget revenues and expenditures will be
improved, based on GFS 2001, including classification of the multi-sectoral donor
programs and more accurate reflection of expenditures from the Government Reserve
Fund in the state budget execution reports. We shall pay particular attention to
streamlining the procedures for registration and disclosure of state budget arrears. The
Government will start posting quarterly/annual reports on the state budget arrears on the
website of the Ministry of Finance and Economy.
23.   On improving budget transparency, the Government intends to enhance disclosure
of information on various aspects of public finance, including the official transfers/grants
received by the Government within the framework of bilateral inter-governmental
agreements. We will also incorporate reports on the sources and utilization of extra-
budgetary funds of the line ministries and central agencies in the annual Government
budget execution report to the National Assembly. We will take steps to drastically
reduce the share of expenditures in Group 14 of the functional classification of State
budget, "Expenditures Not Belonging to any of the Main Groups". Additionally, the
Government will improve the existing procedures for using the Government Reserve
Fund and will make its utilization more transparent.
24.   Based on the recent Treasury Law, the Government, in cooperation with the IMF,
will finalize the program preparation for Second Generation of Treasury Reforms and
will launch its implementation. It will also adopt a strategy paper, with an action plan
and specific cost estimates, on accounting reforms in the public sector, which will bring
public sector accounting and reporting in line with international accounting standards.
25.   Within the framework of the 2003 state budget, the Government will adopt a
program of tangible increases in average employee salaries of core economic ministries
and agencies, including the Customs Committee, State Tax Service, and Ministry of
Finance and Economy.
7



Education
26.   The Government plans to deepen reforms in education, improve efficiency of
public spending in the sector as well as improve the quality, relevance, and effectiveness
of primary and secondary education. Related to these objectives, the Government will
adopt and implement a school rationalization program with specific targets for reduction
in excess capacity for 2003. Additionally, in 2003, the state budget allocation for
primary and secondary education will increases by 14 percent in real terms, while the
average teacher's salary will increase by 20 percent and average principal' salary by
more than 50 percent. The Government will further expand the number of schools
covered by the school autonomy reform (community participation in school management
and per student budget financing system) that would contribute to both school
rationalization and more efficient use of scarce resources.
27.   Given the importance of clearing the current stock of budget arrears, the
Government is committed to develop an action plan to clear all the accumulated arrears in
2003 and prevent further arrears in the education sector. The action plan will include: (a)
completing a full inventory of accumulated arrears; and (b) developing a schedule for
quarterly clearance of arrears.
28.   The Government intends to launch a major new reform initiative in university
education, based on a new Government strategy on Higher Education reform, to be
completed by the spring of 2003. The strategy will address issues of greater autonomy
for Higher Education Institutions, the accreditation system, rationalization of the
university system, provision of incentives for their consolidation, and reforming the
admission procedures to third level education. Based on broad consultation with the
main stakeholders, and taking into account the best international practice, the
Government has submitted the draft Higher Education Law to the National Assembly
before the end of 2002. Additionally, the Government will propose amendments to the
Law on State Non-commercial Organizations to make it consistent with the requirements
of the new Higher Education Law. The other priority in education is to drastically
improve accounting and reporting requirements for Higher Education Institutions, which
should help improve the transparency and equity in public spending on universities, as
well as setting up the necessary conditions for future improvements in the sector's
efficiency.
Health
29.   Government' strategy in public health emphasizes a need to increase budget
spending in the sector, improve transparency and efficiency of public health providers,
and ensure better equity in access to health services, especially for the most poor. The
public spending on health in 2003 will increase by 27 percent. We will continue to
implement family physician based primary health care reform and increase the share of
the budget that finances primary health. Based on our recent successful experience with
rationalization of health institutions in various regions outside the capital, we will
develop, adopt and implement the hospital optimization plan for Yerevan, with specific
8



targets for capacity reductions and occupied space. Taking into consideration the
importance of financial management in public hospitals, we will develop an action plan
to improve public hospital financial management, accounting, and financial reporting,
prepare a package of necessary regulatory amendments, and start implementing the action
plan in early 2003.
30.   As in the education sector, we give high priority to clearing the accumulated
budget arrears and preventing any new arrears in the health sector. Our action plan in
this area will include: (a) completing a full inventory of accumulated arrears; and (b)
developing the schedule for quarterly clearance of all arrears during 2003.
31.   We shall introduce further reforms in the Basic Benefit Package for health
services to make it more consistent with the available budget financing. The Government
will review the BBP coverage to improve targeting and ensure an increase in health
utilization rates by the poor. We will also start a pilot for a co-payment mechanism in the
health sector, which would help to make explicit and accountable some of the existing
informal payments by patients. We will continue to closely monitor trends in access to
public health services (as well as to general education) by various population groups
through regular household surveys and would make public the results of our evaluation.
Social Protection and Pension Reform
32.   Given the success of our main social protection program--family poverty benefit--
in our poverty alleviation efforts, we intend to keep this program as the core of our social
assistance system. The Govermnent plans to increase the average size of the poverty
family benefit by about I I percent starting on July 1, 2003, and channeling this increase
to families with children with the per child benefit increasing from ADR 1500 to ADR
2000 a month. The Government is committed to maintain the number of recipients of
poverty benefits roughly unchanged in 2003 and to further increase the average poverty
benefit in 2004, simultaneously with the minimum wage increases. At the same time, we
will continue to improve targeting of poverty benefits as well as efficiency in their
administration, while continuing to provide adequate funding. The Government will
further strengthen its poverty monitoring capacity by introducing a regular household
survey. We shall pilot an expansion in community and regional-based social services,
and will prepare a new program of childcare reforms, which would emphasize a need to
de-institutionalize the existing childeare system and introduce a system of family-based
placement arrangements.
33.   The Government plans to have the new Pension Law enacted in early 2003. The
pension reform would ensure transparency, fiscal sustainability and gender equality in
social insurance, and would provide for a gradual increase in pensions, based on
improved administration and strengthened incentives to comply with the regulations.
Through 2003, we will prepare the necessary regulations to implement the pension law
and will make satisfactory progress in its implementation, based on the schedule recently
approved by the Prime Minister. In particular, we intend to gradually expand the
coverage of the Armenian population by the system of Personal Identification Numbers
9



(PINs) and individual pension accounts, based on the recently completed pilot in the
Kotaik marz. We expect that the system of individual accounts in social insurance would
help reduce the incidence of informal employment and under-reporting of wages and
therefore would strengthen the revenue base of the Social Insurance Fund (SIF). We plan
to increase the average old-age pension by more than 12 percent from January 1, 2003,
and expect to be able to finance a further increase in pensions later in 2003. The draft
2003 Budget Law provides for a shift in financing of social pensions from the Social
Insurance Fund to the regular budget, which would help to release additional funding for
an increase in regular old-age pensions. The Government will also submit an amendment
to the Law on Social Contributions that would provide additional enforcement powers to
the SIF in the area of payroll tax collections.
Program Monitoring and Evaluation
34.   We will monitor and evaluate the reform program supported by SAC5 through
targets and benchmarks, including those reflected in the attached annex to this Letter of
Development Policy. The Government will make a comprehensive evaluation of the
progress in the reform program, within the context of the agreed reform targets, in the
third quarter of 2003 and in early 2004 to assess the need for revised priorities.
35.   We are firmly committed to implement quickly, effectively and consistently our
economic reform program. The proposed SAC5 fits well for this endeavor and will
support attaining the targets outlined in our Poverty Reduction Strategy. It will also
facilitate further development of the private sector, strengthen public administration
reform and budget management systems, and support our goal of making economic
growth economically and politically sustainable, as well as inclusive, so that everyone in
Armenia participates in it and shares its outcomes. We are committed to macroeconomic
stability and will pursue vigorously the necessary structural reformns.
10



Annex for the Letter of Development Policy
Key Output/Outcome Performance Indicators for the Government Reform
Program (2002-03)
I. Macroeconomic Stability
Real GDP Growth of 6 percent, inflation at no more than 3 percent and level of
gross international reserves of not less than 3 months of imports in 2003.
II. Private Sector Development and Public Enterprise Reform
*  Reduced the average time necessary to get construction and building renovation
permits from 310 days in 2001 to less than 100 days by July 1, 2003.
*  Reduced the number of goods that are subject to mandatory certification at the
border from 2001 level of 80 by 20 (i.e. by about 25%) by July 1, 2003.
*  Made the Register of movable property fully operational with at least 10
registered transactions per month by July 1, 2003.
*  Increased the number of newly established legal business entities with foreign
participations by at least 10 percent (i.e., by about 200 firms) from July 1, 2001 to
July 1, 2003.
*  Increased the volume of FDI (outside the energy sector) from the average level of
US$75 million in 2001-02 by 20 percent during 2003.
* Increased the number of registered business transactions with agricultural land
plots from about 2,850 in 2001 to 4,700 in 2003.
* Increased the number of land certificates issued to family farmers from 313,000 at
the end of 2001 to 525,000 by the end of 2003.
*  Decreased the average time necessary to complete the liquidation procedures
(before initiating assets sales) of the SOEs from 210 days in 2002 to 150 days in
2003.
*  Accumulated no energy payment arrears by state enterprises in the water sector
and metro that derive from delays in budget financing in 2003.
*  Increased the average daily number of hours when water supply is available to
dwellers of multi-apartment buildings in Yerevan from 3.1 hours in 2001 to 6.2
hours in 2003



* Increased domestic budget financing of road maintenance from ADR 1,200
million in 2002 to ADR 2,500 million in 2003.
*  Increased the irrigation tariff from 3.9 Drain per cub. m in 2001 to 4.2 Dram per
cub m in 2003.
*  Increased the rate of presumptive tax for liquid gas from 2002 level of ADR
500,000 per month to ADR 1,000,000 per month in 2003.
*  Increased revenue yields in 2003 compared with the 2001 levels from: (i) the
largest retail markets in Yerevan by at least 15 percent; (ii) the main excisable
goods, such as petrol and tobacco, by at least 10 percent; and (iii) car importation
by at least 20 percent.
*  Increased the number of employees registered as active payroll taxpayers from the
2002 level of 260,000 by at least 10 percent by July 1, 2003.
* Reduced the outstanding VAT balances due to the exporters by at least 10 percent
at the end of the first half of 2003 relative to the end of the first half 2002.
*  Improved communications with the private sector and general public resulting in
an increased number of references to the websites of the State Tax Service, the
State Customs Committee, and the Ministry of Finance and Economy by at least
500 per month for each of these websites.
*  Increased the total collected insurance premiums (in real terms) by at least 10
percent in July 2003 compared with the July 2001 level.
* Increased the total paid capital of the banking system by at least 25 percent by
July 1, 2003, compared with the end 2001 level of ADR37.7 billion.
* Increased the minimum   capital requirements for commercial banks from
US$1,150 million to US$1,825 million from July 2001 to July 2003.
III. Public Sector and Social Sector Reforms
* Increased budget transparency by reducing the share of non-classified budget
expenditures in total expenditures from 19 percent in the 2002 budget to less than
13 percent in 2003.
*  Increased the level of budget financing for health and education in the 2003
budget compared with the 2002 budget by 27 percent and 14.4 percent
respectively.
* Reduced the number of schools due to consolidation by at least 5 by mid-2003
and reduce the number of staff on school payroll by 8-10 percent relative to the
12



level of 2001/02 educational year of 48,950 staff members (to become effective
on September 1, 2003).
* Increased the average teacher salary by at least 20 percent (from the average level
of 15.4 thousand ADR) and school managers by more than 100 percent in 2003
relative to 2002.
*  Maintained the enrollment rates in elementary education at 95 percent in 2003.
*  Accumulated no new budget arrears in education, and fully pay stock of
outstanding arrears (arrears of previous years) by July 2003 compared with the
2002 stock of budget arrears of ADR 1.9 billion.
* Reduced capacity in the public health sector by at least 10 percent (estimated
through both the number of hospital beds and total occupied space by public
hospitals) in 2003, relative to the end-2001 level of 16,000 beds.
* Accumulated no new budget arrears in health and fully pay stock of outstanding
arrears (arrears of previous years) by July 2003 relative to the 2002 stock of
budget arrears of ADR 7.3 billion.
* Increased the share of government health budget for primary health from 19.1%
in 2001 to more than 30% in 2003.
* Increased utilization rates in public health by the poor (among families eligible for
poverty benefits) from 2001 level of 46.5 percent to at least 50 percent in 2003.
* Increased proportion of one-year old children immunized against measles to at
least 90 percent in mid-2003 from 2001 level of 85 percent.
* Increased the size of average monthly family poverty benefit by at least 11
percent in the second part of 2003 relative to 2002.
* Increased the average monthly old-age pension by at least 20 percent in July 2003
relative to 2002 level of ADR 5,400.
13



Annex II
Armenia SAC5: Reform Program Matrix
Core conditions are in BOLD
Sectoral Area       |        Board Presentation                     Second Tranche                    Outcome/Output
I. Macroeconomic Stability
1. Maintaining       Satisfactory macroeconomic          Satisfactory macroeconomic performance.  Real GDP Growth of 6 percent,
Macroeconomic         performance.                                                              inflation at no more than 3
Stability                                                                                       percent and level of gross
Staby           jpinterational reserves of not less
than 3 months of imports in 2003.
II. Private Sector Development and Public Enterprise Reform
2. Improving Business  1. The GOA adopted the action plan for  1. The GOA has demonstrated      Reduced the average time
and Legal Environment  improving the business and investment  satisfactory progress in implementation of  necessary to get construction and
environment (see Annex III).       the medium-term action plan for        building renovation permits from
improving the business and investment  310 days in 2001 to less than 100
2. The GOA submitted the new       environment.                           days by July 1, 2003.
Bankruptcy Law to the National
Assembly.                          2. The GOA has prepared implementation  Reduced the number of goods
regulations for the Bankruptcy Law.    that are subject to mandatory
3. The GOA submitted the Public                                           certification at the border from
Auction Law to the National Assembly.  3. The GOA has prepared implementation  2001 level of 80 by 20 (i.e. by
regulations for the Public Auction Law.  about 25%) by July 1, 2003.
4. The GOA drafted and submitted a
number of amendments to various laws  4. The GOA has submitted to the National Made the Register of movable
to facilitate leasing activities.  Assembly a new Labor Code in substance  property fully operational with at
as agreed with the Association.        least 10 registered transactions
5. The GOA strengthened protection of                                     per month by July 1, 2003.
intellectual property rights and   5. The GOA has adopted the Concession
developed regulatory procedures to  Law and prepared its implementation   Increased the number of newly
implement the 1999 Law on Intellectual  regulations.                      established legal business entities
Property.                                                                 with foreign participation by at
least 10 percent (i.e. by about 200



firms) from January 1, 2002 to
6. The GOA promoted privatization of                                      July 1, 2003.
urban land used by commercial entities.
Increased the volume of FDI
7. The GOA simplified the procedures                                      (outside the energy sector) from
for real estate and land registration.                                    the average level of US$75
million in 2001-02 by 20 percent
8. The GOA simplified the procedures                                      during 2003.
for sales of collateral to reduce implicit
costs of lenders.                                                         Increased the number of
registered business transactions
with agricultural land plots from
about 2,850 in 2001 to 4,700 in
2003.
Increased the number of land
certificates issued to family
farmers from 313,000 at the end
of 2001 to 525,000 by the end of
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _2 0 0 3 .
3. Strengthening      1. The GOA developed and approved a  1. The GOA has completed             Decreased the average time
Public Enterprise     plan to accelerate reorganization and  bankruptcy/liquidation procedures for at least necessary to complete the
Reform               liquidation of non-viable SOEs, and  10 of the medium and large SOEs included in liquidation procedures (before
selected a group of 20 medium and large  the plan, which would include appointment  initiating assets sales) of the
SOEs for liquidation within the plan.  of the liquidation commissions for these  SOEs from 210 days in 2002 to
enterprises and approval of action plans for  150 days in 2003.
2. The GOA made satisfactory progress  the commissions.
to initiate the liquidation of the 20
medium and large SOEs according to the
plan, including adoption of Government
decisions on liquidation of at least 2
enterprises from this group.



4. Advancing Public   1. The GOA made adequate provisions  1. The VIP customers have made        Accumulated no energy payment
Infrastructure Refonn  in 2003 budget to support the financial  satisfactory payments to the energy sector.  arrears by state enterprises in the
recovery plan of the water and transport                                   water sector and metro that derive
sectors to ensure their full payments to  2. The GOA has sustained a satisfactory  from delays in budget financing
the energy sector.                  environment for operations of the      in 2003.
privatized firms in the power and utility
sectors as indicated by: (i) establishing a  Increased the average daily
single utility regulator, adopting the  number of hours when water
necessary legal framework to ensure its  supply is available to dwellers of
financial autonomy and transferring    multi-apartment buildings in
economic regulations of energy, water and  Yerevan from 3.1 hours in 2001
telecom sectors to the single regulator; (ii)  to 6.2 hours in 2003.
carrying out the agreed Performance
Monitoring and Public Dissemination    Increased domestic budget
Program; and (iii) ensuring the privatized  financing of road maintenance
power distribution company (ArmElNet)'s from ADR 1.2 billion in 2002 to
compliance with its License.           ADR 2.5 billion in 2003.
Increased the irrigation tariff from
3.9 Dram per cub.m in 2001 to
4.2 Dram per cub m in 2003.
5. Improving Tax and  1. The GOA adopted the action plan for  1. The GOA has demonstrated        Increased the rate of presumptive
Customs               reforming tax and customs           satisfactory progress in implementation of  tax for liquid gas from 2002 level
Administration        administration (see Annex IV).     the medium-term action plan for         of ADR 500,000 per month to
reforming tax and customs administration. ADR 1,000,000 per month in
2003.
Increased revenue yields in 2003
compared with the 2001 levels
from: (i) the largest retail markets
in Yerevan by at least 15 percent;
(ii) the main excisable goods,
such as petrol and tobacco, by at
least 10 percent; and (iii) car



importation by at least 20 percent.
Increased the number of
employees registered as active
payroll taxpayers from the 2002
level of 260,000 by at least 10
percent by July 1, 2003.
Reduced the outstanding VAT
balances due to the exporters by
at least 10 percent at the end of
the first half of 2003 relative to
the end of the first half 2002.
Improved communications with
the private sector and general
public resulting in an increased
number of references to the
websites of the State Tax Service,
the State Customs Committee,
and the Ministry of Finance and
Economy by at least 500 per
month for each of these websites.
6. Strengthening the  1. The GOA established an adequate  1. The GOA has: (i) completed a        Increased the total collected
Financial Sector      regulatory and supervisory environment  diagnostic/least-cost study for the Credit  insurance premiums (in real
for the non-bank financial institutions.  Yerevan, Ardshin and Armcommunication  terms) by at least 10 percent in
banks and made satisfactory progress with  July 2003 compared with the July
2. The GOA developed specific      implementation of the resolution strategy  2001 level.
strategic proposals for resolution of all  formulated for these banks; and (ii)
three large problem banks under     revoked the licenses and appointed     Increased the total paid capital of
temporary administration (Credit   liquidators for the remaining (United and  the banking system by at least 25
Yerevan, Ardshin and                Credit Service) banks under temporary  percent by July 1, 2003,
Armcommunication bank) and initiated a administration.                     compared with the end 2001 level
diagnostic/least-cost study for them.                                      of ADR 37.7 billion.
2. The GOA has prepared implementing
____ __  3. The GOA revoked the licenses and  regulations for the new insurance law,  Increased the minimum capital
4



appointed liquidators for three small  increased the minimum capital requirements  requirements for commercial
banks under temporary administration.  for insurance companies, refrained from  banks from US$ 1.150 million to
introducing new compulsory insurance   US$1.825 million from July 2001
4. The GOA amended the Insurance    schemes before approval of the implementing  to July 2003.
Law.                                regulations, and strengthened the capacity of
the Insurance Inspectorate.
III. Promoting Public Sector Reforms
7. Promoting Public   1. The GOA adopted regulations to   1. The GOA has rationalized the roles and
Administration        support implementation of the Civil  responsibilities of internal and external
Service Law and the Law on          auditing functions and passed a law to
Remuneration of Civil Servants.    increase the independence of the Chamber of
Control (COC) in performing external audits.
2. The GOA has made improvements in the
regulatory framework of public procurement,
based on recommendations of the Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR).
3. The GOA has developed and adopted an
action plan for implementation of the anti-
corruption strategy and made satisfactory
progress in carrying out the anti-corruption
strategy.
8. Improving budget   1. The GOA approved an action plan for 1. The GOA has demonstrated         Increased budget transparency by
management systems    improving budget management systems  satisfactory progress in implementation of  reducing the share of non-
(see Annex V).                     the medium-term action plan for         classified budget expenditures in
improving budget management systems.   total expenditures from 19
percent in the 2002 budget to less
2. The GOA has amended the Budget      than 13 percent in 2003.
System Law to introduce changes in the
budget calendar that would make annual
MTEF updates an integral part of the budget
cycle.



VI. Advancing Social Sector Reforms
9. Increasing the     1. The GOA increased the level of  1. The GOA has refrained from         Increased the level of budget
Budget Financing of   budget financing of health, education  accumulation of new budget arrears in the  financing for health and education
Core Social Services  and social protection.             social sector.                        in 2003 budget compared with the
2002 budget by 27 percent and 14.4
percent respectively.
10. Achieving higher  1. The GOA adopted the School      1. The GOA has: (i) made satisfactory  Reduced the number of schools due
efficiency in General  Rationalization Program with specific  progress in implementation of the School to consolidation by at least 5 by
Education            targets for 2002 and 2003.          Rationalization Program for 2003; and  mid-2003 and reduced the number
(ii) made satisfactory progress in    of staff on school payroll by at least
2. The GOA increased the state budget  implementation of the medium-term  8-10 percent relative to the level of
allocation for primary and secondary  action plan for improving the financial  2001/02 educational year of 48,950
education and improved teachers'   management, accounting and financial  staff members (to become effective
salaries.                          reporting for higher education.       on September 1, 2003).
3. The GOA developed an action plan                                      Increased the average teacher salary
for clearing the accumulated arrears in                                  by at least 20 percent (from the
the education sector and prevented                                       average level of 15,400 ADR) and
further arrears in this sector.                                          school managers by more than 100
percent in 2003 relative to 2002.
Maintained the enrollment rates in
elementary education of at least 95
percent in 2003.
Accumulated no new budget arrears
in education, and fully paid stock of
outstanding arrears (arrears of
previous years) by July 2003
compared with the 2002 stock of
budget arrears of ADR 1.9 billion.
11. Launching         1. The GOA prepared a plan to      1. The GOA has developed and approved a
Reforms in University  introduce accounting and reporting  new Government strategy on Higher
Education             requirements for higher education  Education reform, which would address
institutions.                      issues of greater autonomy for Higher
6



2. The GOA submitted the draft Higher Education Institutions, the accreditation
Education Law to the National      system, rationalization of the Higher
Assembly, developed amendments to  Education Institutions system and provision
the Law on State Non-commercial    of incentives for their consolidation, and
Organizations to make it consistent with reforming the admission procedures to the
the requirements of the new Higher  third level of education.
Education Law.
12. Advancing Health  1. The GOA adopted the Hospital   1. The GOA bas: (i) made satisfactory  Reduced capacity in the public
Sector Reform        Optimization Plan for Yerevan with  progress in the implementation of the  health sector by at least 10 percent
specific targets for capacity reduction.  Hospital Optimization Plan for Yerevan;  (estimated through both the number
and (ii) adopted, and subsequently    of hospital beds and total occupied
2. The GOA developed a draft action  demonstrated satisfactory progress in  space by public hospitals) in 2003,
plan to improve public hospital    implementation of the medium-term     relative to the end-2001 level of
financial management, accounting, and  action plan for improving the financial  16,000 beds.
financial reporting and prepared a  management, accounting and financial
package of necessary regulatory    reporting for public hospitals satisfactory  Accumulated no new budget arrears
amendments.                       to the Association.                   in health and fully paid stock of
outstanding arrears (arrears of
3. The GOA developed an action plan  2. The GOA has started a pilot for a co-  previous years) by July 2003
for clearing the accumulated arrears in  payment mechanism in the health sector.  relative to the 2002 stock of budget
the health sector and prevented further                                  arrears of ADR 7.3 billion.
arrears in this sector.
Increased the share of government
4. The GOA adopted a Decision to                                         health budget for primary health
introduce further reforms in the Basic                                  from 19.1 percent in 2001 to more
Benefit Package in the health sector.                                   than 30 percent in 2003.
Increased utilization rates in public
health by the poor (among families
eligible for poverty benefits) from
2001 level of 46.5 percent to at least
50 percent in 2003.
Increased proportion of one-year
old children immunized against
measles to at least 90 percent in
7



mid-2003 from 2001 level of 85
_________________________________                       ~~~~~~percent.
13. Deepening Social  1. The GOA improved targeting of the  1. The GOA has developed and adopted a  Increased the size of average
Protection Reforms    poverty-benefits.                   state strategic program for reforming child  monthly family poverty benefit by
care institutions.                     at least 11 percent in the second
2. The GOA improved poverty                                                part of 2003 relative to 2002.
monitoring by introducing a regular  2. The GOA has piloted an expansion in
household survey.                   community and regional - based social
______________________                     ~~~~~~~services.
14. Launching         1. ' The GOA,'adopted a new pension  1. The GOA has demonstrated           Increased the average monthly old-
Implementation of     law'.'                              satisfactory 'progress in              age pension by at least 20 percent in
Pension System                                            implementation of the new Pension      July 2003 relative to 2002 level of
Reformns              2. TheGO9Auncestabpished an action Plan  Law, including promulgation of    ADR 5,400.
and, launched-a pilot for implementation im eengrultos
of-Personal iidentification Numbers  esalishing regulations,
(PiNs).  -r-                        establishing individual pension
accounts, and improving enforcement
3. The GOA moved financing of social  of regulations on pension
pensions from the Social Insurance  contributions.
Fund to the regular budget.
8



Annex III
The Action Plan for Improving the Business and Investment Environment
1.    Improving the functioning of the Business Council, broadening its membership,
and enhancing the private sector's awareness of Business Council activities.
2.    Simplifying urban development procedures, clarifying the types of activities to-
be-licensed in the area of urban development and introducing the necessary amendments
to the Law on Urban Development.
3.    Switching to a simplified licensing regime for the Internet service providers,
revising license fees structure and providing equal treatment towards the sector's
operators.
4.    Reducing the number of goods that are subject to mandatory certification at the
border.
5.    Adopting a Government resolution to establish a movable property registry.
6.    In consultation with the private sector: (i) defining the types of business
transactions that do not require an enterprise seal to make them official, including being
accepted for tax purposes; and (ii) issuing the respective decisions.
7.    Making amendments to the Civil Code that would remove existing restrictions on
setting banking interest rates.
8.    Undertaking a new business survey and, based on the analysis of its results,
developing additional recommendations for improving the business environment in 2003.
9.    Improving communications with the taxpayers, including through placement of
the most information on existing tax regulations as well as on regulatory changes at the
State Tax Service's website.
10. Adopting an action plan for reforms in customs administration including:
(a) Introducing a single payment mechanism for exporters and importers (to be
administered by Customs), which will accept all mandatory payments associated
with the border crossing and clearance, e.g., certification fees, payments for
sanitary inspection.
(b) introducing simplified declaration procedures for dutiable imports below a
certain threshold made by individuals, with a simplified duty assessment system.
(c) Simplifying authorization procedures and reducing the amount of required
documents for exporters.



11.   Introducing the relevant amendments to the Customs Code to make it consistent
with the WTO requirements, including those that would allow for self-assessment by
importers and their agents, brokers.
12.   Broadening of the Customs Committee's advisory board of private sector
representatives composition to provide wider representation of importers and exporters in
the group, as well as provision of publicity on the group's meetings.
13.   Improving public access to Customs regulations by launching a website of the
Customs State Committee, and preparing the Customs Manual.
14.   Introducing, within the program of international technical assistance, an automatic
system for risk-based selective control of incoming cargo.
2



Annex IV
The Action Plan for Reforming Tax and Customs Administration
1.    Developing an action plan for increasing revenue yields from the largest retail
markets in Yerevan based on effective enforcement of the recently adopted decisions
relating to both the registration of individual traders and reporting by market operators.
Satisfactory increased revenue yields from the largest retail markets in Yerevan
according to the action plan.
2.    Developing an action plan for improving budget revenues from car importation
and car ownership based on improved car registration procedures and making reports on
car registration publicly available.
3.    Improving administration of both personal income and payroll taxes by: (a)
completing the second phase of the action plan on establishing the PIN-based system of
personal accounts that include development of necessary software and adoption of the
appropriate structure for the personal accounts database; (b) completing the third phase of
the action plan on establishing the PIN-based system of personal accounts that include
the preparation of operational guidelines for regional centers of the SIF, training of
personnel at these centers, and installation of necessary equipment and software; (c)
drafting and submitting to Parliament a new Law on Declaration of Incomes and
Expenses of Physical Persons (Individuals) as well as making amendments to the existing
Financial Disclosure Law to provide for a gradual expansion in the number of citizens
who have to file mandatory annual income declarations; and (d) adopting an amendment
to the Law on Social Contributions that would provide additional enforcement powers to
the State Social Insurance Fund (SIF) in the area of payroll tax collections.
4.    Improving administration of the property tax through: (a) adoption of
amendments to the Property Tax Law and related regulations; (b) introduction of a new
valuation formula based on market value of properties (for both legal and physical
entities); and (c) elimination of threshold (minimum property value) for property
taxation.
5.    Developing suggestions for improving tax revenues from the main excisable
goods, such as petrol and tobacco, through a reduction in under-reporting and smuggling,
and based on additional analysis, developing more accurate estimates for the current level
of under-reporting.
6.    Introducing passport readers and related software at the Customs point at
Bagratashen and providing adequate infrastructure for this equipment.
7.    Implementing the Asycuda system at all Customs points.



8.    Adopting a Government decision to increase the excise rate for liquid gas by 100
percent and submitting it to the National Assembly for approval.
9.    Strengthening criminal responsibility for tax evasion by introducing necessary
amendments to the existing Criminal Code as well as to the draft of the new Criminal
Code that is under preparation.
10.   Strengthening operations of the Internal Audit Unit in the State Tax Service,
which will start to prepare and share quarterly reports on its activities with the President's
Office, the Prime Minister, MOFE, and IMF and World Bank staff.
11.   Introducing, in consultations with taxpayers, amendments to the appeal process in
the State Tax Service.
12.   Making further progress in the administration of VAT refund for exporters,
introducing a registration system and a quarterly reporting on outstanding VAT balances
due to the private sector, submitting the first such a quarterly report not later than in April
of 2003, and developing a proposal to make relevant VAT credits available to exporters
of software.
2



Annex V
The Action Plan for Improving Budget Management Systems
1.    Strengthening the medium-term budgetary framework, including: (a) making
necessary administrative arrangements to ensure adequate support and coordination for
an annual update of the MTEF document by January 1, 2003; (b) approving by January
31, 2003, an integrated MTEF-Budget timetable for the 2004-06 MTEF update; (c)
developing and issuing by March 15, 2003, MTEF guidelines to line ministries for the
annual MTEF update; (d) completing the 2004-06 MTEF by June 2003, and ensuring
that key MTEF parameters on expenditure priorities and indicative ceilings are
incorporated into the decisions of the High Level MTEF Council, chaired by the Prime
Minister that would guide the preparation of the 2004 annual budget; (e) providing for
adequate disclosure of the MTEFs for 2003-05 and 2004-06; and (f) ensuring that
respective annual budgets of 2003 and 2004 are consistent with the main MTEF
parameters, by June 30, 2003.
2.    Improving the mechanism for registering and monitoring budget commitments
and the cash flow management system, based on operation of the Integrated Financial
Management System.
3.    Adopting a Decree of the Minister of Finance and Economy which will define the
procedures for registering State budget arrears, including the reporting formats. Ensuring
the inclusion of quarterly/annual reports on State budget arrears in the website of the
Ministry of Finance and Economy according to the administrative, economic and
functional classifications of budget expenditures.
4.    Adopting, within the framework of 2003 state budget: (a) improved classification
of the multi-sectoral donor programs in the annual budget law; and (b) initiation of
actions to reduce the ratio of expenditures in Group 14 of the functional classification of
State budget expenditures "Expenditures Not Belonging to any of the Main Groups" in
total budget expenditures. Adopting a Decree of the Ministry of Finance and Economy
which will define the following requirements: (c) reflection in the State budget execution
reports expenditures from the Government Reserve Fund and clearance of previous
years' arrears according to the administrative and economic classifications of these
expenditures; (d) inclusion of reports on the source and utilization of extra-budgetary
funds of ministries and central agencies in the State budget execution report, according to
the administrative and economic classifications of budget expenditures.
5.    Undertaking: (a) publication of a bulletin which will disclose information on the
official transfers/grants in previous years' budgets; (b) approval of procedures for
recording ratified government grants (cash and non-cash), and preparation and disclosure
of corresponding reports; and (c) implementation of procedures for recording ratified
government grants (cash and non-cash), and disclosure of corresponding reports.



6.    Developing an action plan to establish a database in the Ministry of Finance and
Economy on information required in the budget programming process (for example,
number of students, classes, doctors, length of publicly funded roads, scale of public
housing).
7.    Improving the existing procedures for using the Government Reserve Fund to
make its utilization more transparent.
8.    Improving financial performance and the monitoring system of the commercial
companies with state participation, including: (a) improving the quality of their financial
reporting to the Ministry of Finance and Economy; (b) introducing quarterly publication
of the consolidated reports; (c) introducing a procedure for regular submission of reports
prepared by the companies' internal auditors to the Ministry of Finance and Economy;
and (d) expansion of the monitoring system to cover all industrial enterprises, the largest
state non-commercial entities, including those in the education and health sectors.
9.    With assistance of the IMF, adopting a strategy paper with an action plan and cost
estimates on accounting reforms in the public sector in line with international accounting
standards.
10.   With assistance of the IMF, review GFS 2001, compare GFS 2001 with the
current classification system of budget revenues and expenditures, and develop
recommendations for transition to the classification system of revenues and expenditures
and the accrual-based accounting of GFS 2001.
11.   Approval of the Program for Second Generation of Treasury Reforms and making
satisfactory progress in its implementation.
12.   Including program budgeting within the preparation of the 2003 annual budget
and preparing the next annual budget for social sectors in accordance with program
classification.
13.   Developing and adopting measures to reform mechanisms for road maintenance
financing by introducing a system of road user fees and earmarking a portion of the
existing fuel taxes.
14.   Developing and publishing a schedule for irrigation tariff increase in 2002-2007
to provide full cost recovery tariffs in the irrigation system by 2007.
15.   Within the framework of the 2003 state budget, adopting a program of tangible
increases in average salaries of employees of economic core ministries and agencies.
2



Annex VI
Armenia- Key Economic Indicators
Actual        Estimate              Projected
Indicator           1999   2000   2001     2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
National Accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross Domestic Product a     100.0  100.0  100.0    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture              29.5   25.5   27.7    26.9   26.4    26.0   24.9   24.3   23.5
Industry                 32.2   35.4   34.2     34.5  35.4    36.3   36.4   37.1   37.2
Services                 38.3   39.0   38.1    38.5   38.3    37.7   38.7   38.6   39.3
Total Consumption            110.7  108.5  101.7    96.7   94.1    92.9   91.3   90.0   88.6
Gross investment         18.4   18.6   18.6    20.4   21.2    21.5   21.6   22.0   22.0
Government investment     4.8    3.8    3.4     3.8    4.0     4.3    4.6    5.0    5.2
Private investment       13.6   14.8   15.2     16.5   17.2   17.2   17.0   17.0   16.8
Exports (GNFS)b               20.8   23.4   25.6    30.0   33.3    36.2   38.5   39.9   41.4
Imports (GNFS)                49.8   50.5   45.9     47.1  48.6    50.6   51.4   51.8   52.0
Gross Domestic Savings       -10.7   -8.5   -1.7      3.3    5.9    7.1    8.7   10.0   11.5
GrossNationalSavingsc         -0.6    4.1    9.5     11.1   11.5   10.8   10.9   11.6   11.6
Gross Domestic Product (US$
million at current prices)  1845.5 1911.6 2117.8   2309.4 2497.6 2678.6 2881.3 3108.5 3360.2
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas
method)                       610    680    730      770    820     870    930    990   1060
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1996 prices for 1998-2001 and 2001 prices for 2002-2010)
Gross Domestic Product at
market prices                  3.3    6.0    9.6      8.0    7.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
Gross National Income          3.5    7.3   13.1      8.1   10.0    8.6    8.3    8.7    8.5
Gross Domestic Product at
market prices                  4.0    6.5    9.4      7.8    6.8    5.8    5.7    5.7    5.7
Total Consumption              1.4    5.9   14.0      1.3    1.4    2.3    1.8    2.3    2.2
Private Consumption            1.4    6.4   15.0      0.4    0.7    1.6    1.1    1.0    1.8
Total Investment              -3.7    9.3   24.6     17.6   10.5    6.3    5.7    6.6    5.6
Balance of Payments (US$ million)
Exports (GNFS)b              383.1  446.8  539.6    693.8  831.8  969.6 1108.4 1239.9 1389.9
Merchandise FOB         247.3  309.9  353.1    435.4  525.2  615.3  709.6  799.0  898.2
Imports (GNFS)b             919.1   966.2  977.6   1087.7 1214.0 1354.8 1481.9 1610.9 1747.3
l



Actual        Estimate              Projected
Indicator           1999   2000   2001     2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
Merchandise CIF         811.3  884.7  877.4    977.6 1092.1  1219.2 1334.6 1451.7 1575.5
Resource balance            -536.0 -519.4 -438.0  -393.9 -382.2 -385.2 -373.5 -371.0 -357.4
Net current transfers        174.1  188.1  174.0    155.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0  130.0
Current Account Balance     -306.9 -278.4 -200.5  -214.4 -243.5 -265.4 -268.6 -292.6 -310.7
Net private FDI              122.0  104.2   69.9     90.0  120.0   150.0  150.0  150.0  150.0
Long-term loans (net)         84.0   46.0   59.0     63.2   55.3   60.8   67.0   85.3  105.3
Official                  84.0   46.0   59.0    63.2    55.3   60.8   67.0   85.3  105.3
Private                    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Other capital                105.2  145.1   87.8    105.5  115.0   120.0  120.0  120.0  120.0
Change in reserves d           4.3  -16.9  -16.2    44.3   -46.8  -65.4  -68.4   -62.7  -64.6
Resource balance, % of
GDP                          -29.0  -27.2  -20.7    -17.1  -15.3  -14.4  -13.0   -11.9  -10.5
External Debt, mln $         870.3  859.5  905.4   1034.2 1067.5  1100.3 1136.2 1194.5 1279.9
External Debt, as%ofGDP       47.2   45.0   42.8     44.8   42.7   41.1   39.4    38.4  38.1
External Debt as % to
ExportsofGNFS                227.2  192.4  167.8    149.1  128.3   113.5  102.5   96.3  92.1
Real exchange rate (YR
95=100)' r116.0                     109.0   99.0     99.0  101.4   102.7  103.6  104.0  104.0
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Revenues                      19.3   16.7   16.5     18.7   18.5    18.6  19.2    19.7   19.9
Expenditures                  24.6   21.6   20.8     23.0   22.7   22.6   24.0    23.6   24.0
Fiscal balance, accrual basis  -7.2  -6.9   -4.2     -4.0   -3.8   -3.5   -3.2    -3.0   -2.8
Fiscal balance, cash basis    -5.2   -4.9   -4.3     -4.3   -4.0    -3.6  -3.2    -3.0   -2.8
Foreign financing              4.7    2.2    2.7      2.8    3.1    4.0    3.9     4.2    4.1
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                        11.1   14.7   14.-7    12.5   13.2    13.3   13.7   13.9   14.3
Growth of M2 (%)              14.0   38.6   13.6     -4.2   16.6    10.9   12.2   10.7   12.3
Private sector credit growth  .45.1  29.2   -0.4     -0.9    *2.6    3.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Real interest rates8          54.5   27.7   20.1     19.6   19.0    17.6   16.0   14.5   13.0
Price indices (YR97 =100)
Merchandise export price
index                       .116.2  119.8  107.5    115.9  110.5   112.0  113.5  115.0  116.5
Merchandise import price
index                        105.9  110.5  108.6    111.6  118.9   124.9  131.3  137.2  142.7
Merchandise terms oftrade    109.7  108.4   99.1    103.8   92.9    89.6   86.5   83.8   81.7
2



Actual         Estimate             Projected
Indicator           1999   2000   2001     2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
index
Consumer price index (%
change)                        0.6   -0.8    3.1      4.0    3.5     3.2    3.0    3.0    3.0
GDP deflator (% change)        -0.2  -1.5     4.0     4.0    3.5     3.3    3.0    3.0    3.1
Total Population (thousands)  3012.0 2996.8 3002.7  3008.7 3013.9 3020.5  3028.4 3038.0 3048.3
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. State budget
f An increase denotes appreciation.
g. T-bill yield
3



Annex VII
Fund-Relations Note
The attached Public Information Notice dated October 9, 2002, reflects the views of IMF
Executive Directors at the conclusion of the recent Article IV consultation with Armenia. The
Fund's contact on Armenia is Mr. Enrique Gelbard (Tel. 202-623-4418).
On September 25, 2002, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
concluded the Article IV consultation with the Republic of Armenia.
Armenia has experienced rapid growth with low inflation in recent years. Since 1999, real GDP
has grown at an average rate of 8 percent per year and inflation has remained below 4 percent.
Economic growth has been primarily export-led, fueled by continued expansion in agriculture,
manufacturing, construction, and tourism industries, The official unemployment rate declined
from 11.7 percent at end-2000 to 9.5 percent by mid-2002. According to the 2001 household
survey, the incidence of poverty, while still high, declined significantly between 1998 and 2001.
The external current account deficit has more than halved since 1998, reflecting strong export
growth and continued subdued import demand. This adjustment has been supported by a 19
percent real effective depreciation of the dram. Gross international reserves have remained at a
comfortable level, surpassing 3.5 months of imports of goods and services during the last three
years. There has also been an improvement in external-debt indicators. At end-2001, the net
present value of debt was equivalent to 129 percent of exports of goods and services, down from
154 percent in 1999.
Fiscal performance, however, has been mixed. The central government deficit on a commitment
basis narrowed from 7.2 percent of GDP in 1999 to 3.9 percent of GDP in 2001, but it remains
high. Tax revenues at 14.4 percent of GDP in 2001 have remained low, reflecting insufficient
improvements in tax and customs administration. Tax revenue collections, however, began to
increase in the first half of 2002 as a result of important tax and customs administration reforms
implemented earlier in the year.
There has been progress in implementing structural reforms. Key measures implemented in
2001 include the passing of a financial disclosure law for senior public officials and a treasury
law, setting up an automated VAT audit system, and introducing legislation aimed at
strengthening the central bank's ability to deal with problem banks. In addition, the authorities
approved a new civil service law, established an internal audit unit at customs, and developed an
anti-corruption strategy in collaboration with donors.
The objectives of the authorities' program for the period July 2002-June 2003 are to maintain a
growth rate of real GDP of at least 6 percent and to keep inflation at 3 percent or less. Tax
revenues are projected to increase by 0.5 percent of GDP per year in 2002-03, the fiscal deficit
on a commitment basis is expected to decline to 2-2.5 percent of GDP in 2002-03, and



expenditure arrears will be eliminated. The program incorporates increases in government
wages, social sector spending, and public investment. The central bank will continue to guide its
monetary policy by adherence to a reserve money corridor and will maintain a flexible exchange-
rate policy.
Structural reforms under the program focus on: (i) improving tax and customs administration, (ii)
resolving the situation of the banks under interim administration and promoting confidence in the
banking system; and (iii) enhancing transparency and governance. The authorities are expected
to finalize a financial rehabilitation plan for the energy, water, and irrigation sectors, and focus
on privatization, selecting competent operators, and bringing tariff rates to cost-recovery levels.
Over the medium term, the expenditure framework and the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) contemplate higher social and infrastructure spending.
Prospects for the Armenian economy remain favorable, but several challenges remain. To
sustain the high rates of growth experienced in recent years and to further reduce poverty,
inequality, and unemployment, Armenia needs to increase revenue collection and spending on
basic infrastructure and on the social sectors, strengthen the banking system, and reduce
corruption and red tape. Property rights need to be strengthened, as well as the enforcement of
bankruptcies and contracts.  Private sector growth will hinge on enhanced financial
intermediation, further bank consolidation, and increased ability of banks to collect collateral.
Corruption needs to be reduced to ensure that the fruits of rapid growth are distributed more
evenly among the population; the recently drafted anti-corruption strategy is an important step in
that direction.
Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors welcomed the authorities' success in keeping inflation low and the exchange
rate stable, improving the external current account balance, and creating an environment
conducive to an increase in real incomes and rapid output growth.  However, while
macroeconomic performance has been strong, policy performance in 2001 was mixed. Directors
expressed particular concern that there had been slippages in the implementation of key
structural policies; that tax revenue collection had fallen short of expectations-in part a result of
inadequate auditing of enterprises and persistent tax evasion; that budgetary arrears had not been
cleared; and that the banking system remained fragile.
Directors welcomed recent fiscal and energy sector measures as important steps that have begun
to yield positive results. They emphasized, however, that the authorities would need to
forcefully pursue structural reforms. Directors attached particular priority to progress in tax
administration; reform in the energy, water, and irrigation sectors; and the clearance of budgetary
arrears. They called for efforts to establish a stronger, more equitable and transparent regulatory
and judicial infrastructure, and stressed the importance of continuing steps to fight corruption,
which would strengthen the credibility of state institutions and contribute to private sector
growth. Directors urged the authorities to strengthen program ownership and fully adhere to
targets under the second annual program under the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) arrangement.
2



Directors welcomed the targeted reduction in the budget deficit in 2002. They called for
ambitious-and in the view of some Directors, more ambitious-revenue efforts and a strong
focus on non-grant receipts. In this connection, Directors encouraged the authorities to
strengthen tax and customs administration, fight tax evasion, and ensure that all taxpayers are
treated in accordance with the law. They considered that the revenue impact of the airport free-
trade zone should be monitored vigilantly.  Directors emphasized that prioritization of
expenditures and clearance of arrears are essential to enhance the government's ability to finance
poverty reduction programs. They agreed that the further reforms anticipated in the area of
expenditure control and budget management would lay the groundwork for an improved
composition of public spending, including an increase in social spending as a share of GDP.
Directors welcomed the steps taken in 2002 to improve the performance of the energy, water,
and irrigation sectors. They stressed the need to finalize the financial rehabilitation plan for
these sectors, bring tariff rates in line with cost recovery levels, and to eliminate their quasi-fiscal
deficits. Directors noted the importance of ensuring that the recent sale of the electricity
distribution company results in improved efficiency and a more reliable supply of electricity.
Energy sector developments should continue to be subject to close monitoring and review under
the program, to ensure that these do not negatively impact macroeconomic performance. Some
Directors would have preferred to retain a performance criterion on the energy sector balance
and encouraged reconsideration of this in the future.
Directors considered the current floating exchange rate system appropriate. They agreed that
monetary policy should remain focused on maintaining price stability through, inter alia, keeping
reserve money within a target corridor. At the same time, in light of the uncertainties of gauging
money demand in Armenia at the current juncture, the central bank should also continue to
monitor inflation developments directly. They noted the importance of a supportive fiscal policy
to achieve the authorities' monetary goals.
Directors welcomed the measures being taken to strengthen banking supervision and resolve-the
situation of banks under interim central bank administration, which were steps in the direction of
enhancing the health and efficiency of the banking system. However, financial intermediation
remains shallow, and weaknesses in the legal system hamper the collection of collateral and the
enforcement of bankruptcy procedures.  Directors emphasized the need for a prompt
restructuring of the financial sector, a reinforcement of banking supervision, and an appropriate
legal framework to deal with problem banks and the collection of collateral. They commended
the authorities' adoption of a resolution on anti-money laundering and establishment of a
committee to work on this issue, and looked forward to the prompt implementation of measures
in this area.
Directors were encouraged by the recent increase in real incomes of households, the reduction in
unemployment, and the improvement in poverty indicators. However, poverty remains high, and
further progress in this area will depend on improving public finances, targeting social
expenditures better, and adopting measures to enhance governance and the business
environment. Regarding the PRSP Preparation Status Report and the associated Joint Staff
Assessment, Directors highlighted the importance of linking the medium-term expenditure
framework effectively with the PRSP; they encouraged the authorities to assume full ownership
of the PRSP and finalize a high quality poverty reduction strategy by the end of this year.
3



Directors encouraged the authorities to follow up on the recommendations of the recent anti-
corruption report and intensify efforts to apply laws and regulations in a consistent manner.
Lastly, directors commended Armenia for maintaining a liberal trade regime and applying for
accession to the World Trade Organization. They welcomed the recent decline in external debt
ratios and the authorities' efforts to reduce the stock of non-concessional debt, all of which will
provide debt service savings that can be used to finance higher social expenditures. They also
welcomed the regularization of external arrears.



Annex VHII
Armenia at a glance                                                                   230
urone&'
POQERTY,and'SO!CIAL                                           Cenrl         o-                        -       __
'Armena       AsIaj, Income      I Developmnent damond'
* 3.8,      475                 U~11Lfa expectaincy
GNI per ceplt~~~~ (A I/as method~~~ US$) ~570-     I90     iI'3
GNI (AiMs ethod, US$billins)                       2.2       930     .1069
Povert (%      ulpptaifon'belowniIdalpoveityliiw)',     51                           cpt
U    populaton (%roftotal ppuaton                  '6           63        31
Ule-expectancLyat birth (yerar)                          74  ,;,69           59
In  tmo   or 1,~000 jitv bIrth)                    15         2           6'           cest ervdwtrsuc
Child malnutritin (%of'chilldrn wide, 5)                  3Ac                                      t rpoewarsum
'A6ai to an impr6ved water soumce (3 of'popidwlo)  ,     93.      1;90       76
litteraei(%blppuatw?ego 15+)'                             2,        3        37
Gross~' prmarfyenroment;(36 f shool-aepopulation)        92       1           6
Mate                                                   ..       103       103    ILow-rncome group
Female                                 ..      ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~101  '88  I,
EYECONOMIC RAT1iOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1901       2000,1;   2001
GOP (US$b/fflkms) .       '    *     ,'          .      3.1       '1.9:      2;,      Ecnmc     t
:Gross domestic investment/GOP',.-               .'    39.8'      18.6       86'                     Trade
Exportsof goods and siviese/GDP               ,        40.7     '23.4,      25'61'
Gdross domestic savlngslG&P'_                          20.4      -~8:5      -11.7
'Currnt account baWtancGDP,,,                    ..       .      -14.6      -9.5     Domestic
interest payments/GOP1:                                  ..       0.5   +'08                                      nvestrnent
savings
Total debtGOP                                             .       50.17  '  ,473  -
yotialdebt service/expcts'B                               .,      '?7   j,8.0
preseritvalue 6fde'bt/GbP        .,                3.;'         13'     :'277
,Pre&intv~atue of deb/pot..                                      17        '89
Indebtedness
19801.1  1991.01     2000       2001'  20-as5
oveerage snnual,growth)
16  6.09.6        2                      ~A,rmenla
E,&of goods andasirAces                   -1.       N1.       2291.               _   ______________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY___                                                                   ___________
1981     1901       2000      2001      Grawth of Investmentl and GOP(%
(96 of GDP)                                                                          3 
Agriculture                                     ..     25.0      25.5       27.7
rindustry                                       ..     49.2      35.4       34.2     20
Manufacturing                                 ..     37.3       24.1      22.4     1o0
Services                                        ..     25.8      39.0       38.1      0
Private consumption                             ..     61.1      98.7       91.0    -is      wi   G     Sm               0
General government conrsumption                 ..     18.5       1 1.8     10.7                 _G0         ---GDP
imports of goods and services                   ..     60.1      50.5       45.9     ______________
1981-91  11991401      2000      2001      Gomwth of export and Imports(%
(average annual growth)40-
Agricuiture                                     ..      1.6      -2.4       11.6 
Industry                                        ..     -2.1       8.1        6.8    2D 
Manufacturing                                 ..      -0.8       6.4       3.8      0 ---                            -
Services                                        ..      6.4      11.0        8.0    .20
Private consumption                             ..      1.5       5.9       15.2     0
General government consumption                  ..     -1.4      -0.3        3.3    6
Gross domestic invvestment                      ..    -10.0       8.7       24.8             -     E_V0t_    -*i  lffrts
imports of goods and services                   ..     -9.2      10.0        2.1 
Note: 2001 data are pretiminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In fth country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incormplete.



Armenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
(96 change)                                                                    200I
Consumer prices                              ..    174.1      -0.8      3.1    15w
Implicit GDP deflator                        ..     79.4      -1.5      4.0    1o5   \
Government finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                              0
Current revenue                               .      5.4      16.7     16.3    -so     96    97    98   99    on    01
Current budget balance                       ..     -1.9       0.4      0.3                  GOP deflator  *  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..     -1.8      -4.9     -4.3
TRADE
(UJS$ "limons)                            1981    1991      2000      2001     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..    2,904      301       342     1 eoo
Gold, jewelry, and other precious stones     .       ..      121      123
Machinery and mechanical equipment          ..      ..        31       43      750
Manufactures                                ..      ..        77       89
Total imports (df)                           ..    4,286      885       877      sW
Food                                        ..      ..       220      211           __
Fuel and energy                             ..     551       174      187
Capital goods                               ..      ..       140       62         0      9s  97   99   99   oo   0
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..        9. ..
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..        ..       ..                 a Exporis    a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..       .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ "difionss                             1981    11991     2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                ..       ..      447       540      o
Imports of goods and servces                 ..       ..      966       978
Resource balance                             ..       ..     -519      -438     -
Net income                                   ..       ..       53        64    .1U
Net current transfers                        ..        .       188      174
Current account balance                      ..       ..     -278      -201    -        l
Finanang items (net)                          .       ..      295       217    -20
Changes in net reserves                      ..        .       -17      -16    -2.
Memo:
Reserves indluding gold (US$ millions)                ..      322       334
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                 2.60E-2     539.5    555.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         ..       ..      969     1.001
IBRD                                       ..       ..        8         7                    G:42 A 7
IDA                                         ..      ..      388       428               F: 49
Total debt service                            ..      ..       43        52
IBRD                                       ..       ..        1         1
IDA                                         ..      ..        3                  E: 207                     B: 428
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                              61        72
Official creditors                         ..       ..       97        59
Private creditors                          ..       ..       28         4
Foreign direct Investment                  ..       .,      140        70
Portfolio equity                           ..       ..        0         0                   c: 173
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..       ..       71        75     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              ..       ..       54        55     B - IDA  0- Other multlateral  F - Povate
Principal repayments                       ..       ..        0         0     C-IMF                      G- Short-terrn
Net flows                                   ..      ..       54       55
Interest payments                          ..       ..        3        3
Net transfers                              ..       ..       51       51
The World Bank Group: This table was prepared by country und staff: figures may differ from other World Bank published data.  9/23/02



IBRD 29596
4.e  T. 5W.-,                     46-                                                  48'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s ~ .-
GEORGIA                                                               GEORGIA        {L      U E5R05
UKRAINE
4                     ;  A    Z    E    R    B    A   I  J    A    N I, Aloverdi  yomberion  U~ SledKAZAIHSTAN
L                    L 0 R                                                                                              A./ BLCOFA 
~~~N ~~~~~~ B 9 / / 5M - R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'EGIO                  N   \~AZ OUDRE
.     it               JV                                   MINGECHAURSKOYE  
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' *%,, Rha  ,    X
_39 Clnih8^nmm~nh>*qw   ,)   OF IRAN  >        iMINGEC--      URSKOYE   --      -      |   AZERR
T  s                        ~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~RESERVOIR  TURKRYMENISTAN
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRE
Ihe pmt ol rEm Wodd Bzmt . i-l | S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.**I
Di i.                                                   u.  ' Al  "rI 
Akh                                                                      ...   ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* .CL'EC  
R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,
44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S                L C E T O N / 45VILLp,47  A GE
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PIMIhARY              ROAS9       E
R-,                         AZERBAIJAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NTRATI'A OUDRE
A,ogats 0  DA               i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  OOr9IIJ5    1    2     5   45,e
38  ryiecveenrrr  A5                                                                             1  2   0  0  5OTNiooIr 
GAVAR                       REPUBLIC      OF ARMENIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
G E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PM19









IMAGING
Report No.: P        7567   AM
Type:      PR



