Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 8642
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1272-MAI)
MAY 7, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This doeument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00        =  MK 1.08 (June 1982)
US$1.00        -  MK 2.73 (June 1989)
MK 1.00         -  100 Tambala
SDR 1.00        u US$1.11 (1982)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 millimeter (mm)                     ,  0.039 inch (in)
1 kilometer (km)                      =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)              =  0.386 square mile (sq mi) - 247 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                           -  0.26 US gallons
1 imperial gallon (Ig)                -  1.2 US gallons - 4.55 liters (1)
1 cubic meter (m3)                    =  220 ig = 264.2 US gallons
1 liter per capita per day (lcd)    G  0.2642 US gallons per capita per day
1 million imperial gallons per day  -  4,546 m31d
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BWB    -  Blantyre Water Board
DLVW   -  Department of Lands, Valuation and Water
GOM    =  Government of Malawi
LCSU   -  Low Cost Sanitation Unit
LUB    =  Lilongwe Water Board
MWS    =  Ministry of Works and Supplies
(until the end of March 1988, then subsequently
renamed Ministry of Works [MOW])
MLG    =  Ministry of Local Government
ODA    =  Overseas Development Administration
OPC    =  Office of the President and Cabinet
PMF    a  Probable Maximum Flood
PMP    3  Probable Maximum Precipitation
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 to June        (1982)
April 1 to March 31 (1989)



FOR OFCL US ONLY
THE WORLtD SANK
W.shtton. DC. 20433
U.S A
O a CA OItawmtnefl
Kay 7, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Malawi
Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Project
(Credit .272-MAI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Malawi - Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Project (Credit
1272-MAI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thisdocument haansmdi*fbuot  andmy be wO byrxpDbmu onlbye pofofnnime
of tetowoAcW dufieaIt conunu may nsotherwin be dfkamd wkoul Worid Bankutau"nsfion.|



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
MALAWI
LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1272-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE CF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...........................................................                          i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................   ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity  .............................................                        1
B.    Project Background  ...........................................                        1
Sector Development Objectives and Policy Context .........                      1
C.    Project Objectives and Description ............................                        2
Project Objectives  ......................................                      2
Project Components  ......................................                      2
D.    Project Design  ...............................................                        3
E.    Project Implementation  .......................................                        4
F.    Major Results of the Project  .................................                        5
G.    Project Sustainability  .......................................                        6
H.    Bank Performar-e  .............................................                        6
I.    Borrower Performance  .........................................                        6
J.    Project Relationship  .........................................                        6
K.    Consulting Services  ..........................................                        7
L.    Project Documentation and Data  ...............................                        7
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Introduction  .................................................                        8
B.    Project Preparation and Analysis  .............................                        9
C.    Project Implementaiton,  Operation and Cost - The Master
Plan for Water Supply and Sanitation  .........................                        9
The Feasibility Study - Water Supply Stage 1 ....                   ........    11
Project Detailed Design  .................................    13
Provision of Management Staff Support for LWB  ....                  .......   16
Provision of Vehicles and Other Equipment  ....                   ...........   17
Urban Low-Cost Sanitation Demonstration Project  ....                  .....    17
Provision of Management Staff Support Costs for Other
Sectoral Organizations  ................................    17
Review of Sectoral Training Needs  .......................    17
D.    Project Costs and Disbursement  ...............................    17
Introduction  ............................................    17
Cost Comparison - SDR  ...................................    17
Comments on Expenditures  ................................    18
Cost Comparison in Malawi Kwacha  ........................    20
On-Lending to Lilongwe Water Board  ......................    21
E.   Conclusion  ...................................................    22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
PART IIIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.      Related  Bank  Loans  and/or  Credits   .......                                ................. ....                 23
2.      Project  Timetable                    ............................................                                    24
3.       Credit  Disbursements                       .........................................                                25
4.       Project  Implementation                             .......................................                          26
5.       Project  Costs  and  Financing   ...............                              #     ..................               27
A.       Project  Costs   ............ ..                       ........................                    27
B.       Project  Financing   ...                  ................             ...............             28
6.       Project  Results   ........                    ......................................                                29
A.       Direct  Benefits   ...................... ...............                                          29
B.       Economic  Impact                 .................              ...................                29
C.       Financial  Impact                  .................              ..................               29
D.       Studies   ............................................                                             30
7.       Status  of  Covenants                     ..........................................                                 31
8.      Use  of  Bank  Resources                       ........................................                               32
A.       Staff  Inputs   ................. ..                          ....................                 32
B.      Missions   ...........................................                                              33
ANNEXES
ANNEX  I            -      Decription  of  the  Project   ........                       ..        ................           34
ANNEX II    -    Final Cost Analysis - IDA Resources  .....                                                ...........    35
ANNEX  III    -            Final  Cost  Analysis                    ...............            .................              36
ANNEX  IV           -      On-Lending  Repayment  Schedule   ......................                                           39



- i -
MALAWI
LILONGVE WATER SUPPLY EN6INEERING PROJECT (CREDIT 1272-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a report on the completion of the Lilongwe Water Supply
Engineering Project in Malawi, for which a credit of SDR 3.6 million
(US$4.0 million) equivalent (Credit 1272-MAI) was approved in September
1982. The Borrower was the Government of Malawi (GOM). US$3.6 million
equivalent of the credit was on-lent to the Lilongwe Water Board (LWB), the
implementing agency, at 122 per annum (p.a.) interest rate over 25 years,
with a 5-year grace period. The credit was closed in June 1987, one year
later than the original closing date of June 1986. Closing of the credit
was delayed to accommodate revisions in the feasibility study and to
complete the low-cost sanitation component. At the time of the draft PCR
preparation in early 1987, the project had been completed for more than 18
months. There was a cancellation of SDR 257,212 due to some components
either being omitted or charged elsewhere.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III) and the Borrower, (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in 1987, and is based, inter alia on
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
MALAWI
LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT (CREDIT 1272-MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
ObJective
The project's purpose was to enable the Government of Malawi and
LWB to formulate long-range water supply, sewerage and sanitation programs
for Lilongwe. LWB was also to be strengthened through improved management,
financial control and cost recovery. The project was also intended to
assist the Government of Malawi to develop appropriate technologies for
sewerage and sanitation and to assess the sector's organizational, manpower
and training needs.
(page 2, para 4)
Implementation Experience
The components of the project's design give evidence of a well-
conceived approach, which was well executed in a timely manner,
particularly on the water supply engineering side. Nevertheless, there
were several areas where project design might have been improved with
beneficial results for implementation:
(a) Negotiations with the engineering consultant would probably
have improved performance for the client if the new LWB
management team had been in place prior to negotiation.
(b) The inclusion of low-cost sanitation studies (outside the
responsibility of LUB or LBS's consultant) complicated
administration of the credit by LWB and _ontributed to the
delay in credit closing.
(c) The terms of reference for the Master Plan component are
considered by LWB management to have been more
comprehensive than required to address Lilongwe's water
shortage.
(page 3, paras 6 & 9)
In general, the technical aspects of the work appear to have
been very well-handled. However, project implementation was delayed by
over six months, as a result of developments following the review of the
draft Master Plan and the draft Feasibility Study. In both instances, the
drafts as presented were technically optimal although there appeared to be
an inadequate appreciation on the part of the consultant of affordability
and financial viability.
(page 4, para 10; page 5, para 16)



- iii -
Results
The Engineering Credit achieved its specific objectives
essentially within budget with respect to Water Supply:
(a) A Master Plan was produced.
(b) A Feasibility Study was carried out.
(c) An engineering design and contraci documents were produced
leading to the Phase III Lilongwe Water Supply Project.
(d) An engineer/manager and a financial controller were
employed.
The credit also supported employment of a low-cost sanitation
adviser and the development of a demonstration project, as well as the
supply of equipment and software to LWB.
(page 5, paras 18, 19)
Sustainebility
Not applicable.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Terms of Reference for Master Plans and Feasibility Studies need
to be carefully drawn in order to avoid the higher cost of wide-ranging
studies much of which may be peripheral to project purpose. It is also
desirable to ensure that there is an emphasis on financial viability and
affordability in both the Master Plan and the Feasibility Study.
(page 3, para 9(c); page 10, para 38)



MALAWI
LILON¢WE WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1272-MAl)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Proiect Identity
- Project Name:      Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Project
- Credit Number:    1272-MAI in the amount of SDR 3.6 million
(US$4.0 million equivalent)
- RVP Unit:          Africa
- Country:           Malawi
- Sector:            Water Supply
B.   Proiect Background
1.        Sector Development Objectives and Policy Context.  In the late
1970's, the Goverrment of Malawi (GOM) accepted the International Drinking
Water Supply and Sanitation Decade's goal of universal safe water by 1990.
While nearly all the population of the major cities of Blantyre and
Lilongwe was projected to have access to safe water in the mid-1980s, the
rapid growth of the urban population, estimated to be groving at 7.6Z p.a.,
was anticipated to require new investment in water supply systems to meet
the demand of the late 1980's.
2.        Lilongwe, in particular, has experienced rapid growth, from a
population of about 19,000 in 1966 to an estimated 150,000 in 1980, with
350,000 projected for the year 2000. This growth has been caused mainly by
immigration to Lilongwe because of its designation in the late 1960's as
the new administrative capital of Malawi and as a focal point for the
region's accelerated development in agriculture, commerce and indastry.
3.        The principal organizations in the sector at the time of project
commencement in early 1983 were the Department of Lands, Valuation and
Water (DLVW) under the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC), and the
water boards in Blantyre and Lilongwe. The Lilongwe Water Board (LWB)
operates Lilongwe's water supply system but was dependent upon DLVW for
technical planning, design and construction management. Although LWB was
established in 1947, until 1982 it functioned essentially as a municipal
department under the Lilongwe City Council, prior to its establishment as a
statutory body under the Department of Statutory Bodies in the Office of
the President and Cabinet. Sewage collection and treatment and sanitation
remain as responsibilities of Lilongwe City Council.



- 2-
C. Proiect Objectives and Descrilption
4.        Project Objectives.   The project's purpose was to enable the
Government of Malawi and LWB to formulate long-range water supply, sewerage
and sanitation programs for Lilongwe. LWB was also to be strengthened
through improved management, financial control and cost recovery. The
project vas also intended to assist the Government of Malawi to develop
appropriate technologies for sewerage and sanitation and to assess the
sector's organizational, manpower and training needs.
5.        Project Components.  The Project comprised the following
components:
a)   Master plans for the long-range development of water supply
and sewerage and sanitation in Lilongwe;
b)   A feasibility study, including field investigation,
detailed engineering design and prep&ration of contract
documents for the next phase (designated as Phase III) of
Lilongwe's water supply development;
c)   Provision of the services of an experienced
Engineer/Manager and a Chief Accountant for LWB and
management support for other activities in the sector;
d)   A pilot project to demonstrate low-cost, appropriate
sanitation technology in Lilongwe;
e)   Procurement of equipment and supplies essential for
preparation of the Lilongwe (Phase III) Water Supply
Project and support of the pilot, low-cost sanitation
component;
f)   Assessment of the sector's manpower and training needs,
including recommendations for a training program;
g)   A study of the sector's organization and, if necessary,
assistance to Government to develop and review proposals
for reorganization or improved coordination within the
sector.



-3-
D. Proiect Design
6.        The components of the project's design give evidence of a well-
conceived approach, particularly on the water supply side.
7.        The consultant's Terms of Reference were drawn up in
considerable detail by DVLW with assistance from the Bank and UNDP in 1980.
The main objective was "to develop master plans outlining the optimum
program for the expansion and development of Lilongwe's water supply and
sanitation systems to the year 2005 .
8.        The project was clearly and logically structured to include:
(a)  A Master Plan for water supply in two stages: 1990-1997 and
1997-2005.
(b) A Feasibility Study followed by detailed design for the
first stage of major expansion (Phase III).
(c) Addressing of management needs of the newly-created LWB.
(d) Provision of vehicles and other equipment related to
project execution for LWB.
(e) Recognition that water supply and sanitation are linked, by
providing a low-cost sanitation study and pilot project,
including construction materials.
9.        Although the project was well-conceived, there are nevertheless
a few areas where, in retrospect, the project design might have been
improveds
(a) It would have been preferable for the new LWB professional
management to have been in place prior to initial
consultancy award. The advantage would have been greater
practical, professional experience available during the
preparation of the terms of reference and the negotiation
of the contract. The disadvantage, however, would have
been further delays to the project in a period of
anticipated critical water shortage.
(b) The inclusion of low-cost sanitation studies which are
outside the management responsibility of LWB, and were also
outside the terms of reference of LWB's consultant,
complicated the administration of the credit from LWB's
perspective. Delays in the low-cost sanitation program
contributed to the delay in credit closing.
(c) The terms of reference for the Master Plan component are
considered by LWB management to have been more
comprehensive and wide-ranging than required to address the
issue of Lilongwe's water shortage.



-4-
E.   Proiect Imlementation
10.       Project implementation was delayed by over six months, as a
result of developments following the review of the draft Master Plan and
the draft Feasibility Study.
11.       Master Plan development co.mmenced in March, 1983.  The draft
Master Plan was completed and presented in October 1983. The Master Plan
confirmed a two-stage development of Lilongwe's water supply and sanitation
systems meeting the demand from l990-97 and from 1997-2005. However, the
overall proposal, while technically optimal, was not financially
affordable. Following review by a Bank mission in December 1983, the
Consultants presented a revised Master Plan in February 1984 which was
approved in April 1984.
12.       Work on the feasibility study for the water supply component
commenced in April 1984 using the same consultants, and a draft feasibility
study was presented in August 1984. The feasibility study included
investigation of the need for strengthening the existing Kamuzu Dam and
enhancing its flood carrying capacity; in addition, a stop-gap augmentation
of water treatment capacity by 5,000 m3/d was included. However, the
proposal in the feasibility study which was over-designed was neither
affordable nor financially viable and necessitated significant
modifications to bring the total capital cost of the Phase III expansion
down to MK26 million from MK 37 million as presented in the feasibility
study, including remedial work to the Kamuzu Dam.
13.       The reduction in Phase III cost was obtained by:
(a) building the new dam in two stages, with the first stage to
last until 1997 at which time the height would be raised by
an additional 5 meters.
(b)  downsizing the desi n capacity of the proposed treatment
works from 42,000 m /d to 32,000 m3/d on the basis of a
less optimistic forecast with respect to growth in per
capita consumption as a result of conservation awareness.
(c) eliminating a technically desirable western ring main.
(d) reducing treated water storage volumes by 302.
14.       The revised cost of Phase III included provisions for the
rehabilitation of the Kamuzu Dam, but did not include the 5,000 m31d
enhancement of water treatment capacity.
15.       Detailed design of Phase III commenced in March 1985;
invitations for prequalification of contractors were advertised with an
outstanding response (over 113 companies from 24 countries) received by
October, 1985; draft contract documents and cost estimates were virtually
complete in February 1986, at which time the proposed Phase III project was
appraised by the Bank.



- 5 -
16.       In general, the technical aspects of the work appear to have
been very well handled. However, there appears to have been an inadequate
appreciation on the part of the Consultant of the two related aspects of
affordability and financial viability although this requirement was clearly
enunciated in the Terms of Reference. This aspect of project design is
accentuated because Lilongwe is a very extensive city geographically with a
low population density leading to high transmission and distribution costs;
it is also the capital of a nation with one of the lowest per capita
incomes in Africa. Furthermore, the financial condition of LWB was
comparatively weak as it had been only marginally profitable for many years
prior to achieving autonomy in 1982.
17.       A minor delay in project implementation occurred in the
appointment of LWB management. It had been anticipated that an
Engineer/Manager and a Chief Accountant would be appointed by December
1982. Appointments were made to these positions only in April, 1983.
Although the Project was initially under DLVW until LWB management were in
place, it was necessary for the Bank to encourage full transfer of
responsibility from DLVW to LWB.
F. Major Results of the Project
18.       The Engineering Credit achieved its specific objectives with
respect to Water Supply -
(a) A Master Plan was produced.
(b) A Feasibility Study was carried out.
(c) An engineering design and contract documents were produced
leading to the Phase III Lilongwe Water Supply Project.
(d) An engineer/manager and a financial controller were
employed.
19.       The Engineering Credit also supported the employment of a low-
cost sanitation adviser and the development of a demonstration project.
Equipment was provided to LWB, including a computer and software support,
which enabled LWB to update its billing and inventory control procedures.
20.       The provision for Sector-Wide Manpower training was not
utilized, as it was agreed that this area was already addressed by other
studies conducted for the GOM. Specific training needs of LWB were
reviewed with the assistance of the Bank, and support obtained from
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) to implement the training
program.
21.       All of the above was accomplished essentially within budget, the
overall underspending being principally the result of not proceeding with
the sector organization and training needs assessment study.



-6-
6. Pro1ect Sustainabili&Z
Not applicable.
U. Bank Performance
22.       The Bank appears to have performed well in terms of its
supervision missions; its role in review of the Master Plan and the
Feasibility Study so as to achieve an affordable, financially viable
project was clearly of considerable benefit. The Bank was also of
significant assistance to LWB to identify its training needs and to obtain
funding from ODA for implementation of the program that emerged to meet
these needs. There is some question, though, as to the advisability of
including under the same credit components that were outside the
responsibility of the executing agency, that is, the low-cost sanitation
program under DLVW and later the Ministry of Works and Supplies (MWS).
Coordination of the program proved to be somewhat difficult.
I.   Borrower Performance
23.       In general, the Borrower was in compliance with the Credit and
Project Agreement covenants and conditions. However, some delays were
experienced by the Bank in 1983 and 1984 in the receipt of quarterly
progress reports. Reporting performance subsequently improved after
discussions with LWB by the Bank.
J. Project Relationship
24.       It was reported in August 1983 that
(a) due to unavoidable delays in appointing Engineer/Manager
and Financial Controller of LWB, DLVW commendably initiated '.
and entered into contract with the Consultants. Initially
DLVW were reluctant to hand over responsibility to LWB (as
provided in the Credit Agreement). DLVW and LWP eventually
agreed that DLVW would retain overall responsibility for
the Master Plan (Phase I of the Consultancy) and LWB would
assume full responsibility for the Water Feasibility Study
(Phase II) effective November 1, 1983. This and the
previously mentioned delay in reporting are the only
evidence of difficulty in project relationships, which
generally appear to have been very positive.
(b) The Low Cost Sanitation Unit (LCSU) reported to DLVW until
the latter was abolished on January 1, 1985. Consequently,
LCSU was transferred to the Ministry of Works and Supplies.



-7-
K.   Consulting Services
25.       The Consultants mobilized rapidly and efficiently.  They
deployed a full range of skills to the field and completed their work on
schedule and within budget. The principal reservation is that insufficient
attention was paid to affordability and financial viability in the
preparation of the draft Feasibility Study.
L.  Project Documentation and Data
26.       The President's Report provided a useful framework especially in
the absence of an appraisal report. Other relevant information on the
project was adequately documented; the supervision reports were
informative. Part II of the PCR, drafted by the borrower, was
comprehensive and well presented.



LILONOWE WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1272-NAfl
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PIOJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
27.       This project falls within the Public Utilities Sector.  The main
objective was to study the need to expand and develop Lilongwe's water
supply and sanitation system to the year 2005.
28.       The executing agency, Lilongwe Water Board (LWB), is a
parastatal organizrtion responsible for public water supplies to the city
of Lilongwe. LWB is a body corporate, incorporated under the Waterworks
Act (Cap 72:01), and from 1987 under the Lilongwe Waterworks Act 1986 (Cap
72:04). The Board consists of a Chairman and ten members, all of whom are
appointed by the Minister.
29.       LWB was established in 1947, and was originally composed of
three Government nominated members. After independence in 1964 the Board
was re-constituted with 10 members. At that time the Board was under the
umbrella of Lilongwe Town Council. In 1982 the Board was separated from
Lilongwe City Council and became a statutory body, under the Department of
Statutory Bodies in the Office of the President and Cabinet.
30.       Prior to 1983 LWB had limited resources in terms of experienced
professional staff and this expertise was provided by the Department of
Lands, Valuation and Water (DLVW). Thus it was the DLVW that prepared the
terms of reference and was party to the Agreement with the Consultants for
the Master Plan and Feasibility Study.
31.       By the time of commencement of the Feasibility Study the LWB had
received an infusion of senior professional staff, and from that time
onwards the consultants reported to the Board.
32.       Historically, economic development was concentrated in the south
of Malawi particularly around the largest urban centre of Blantyre-Limbe
and, with the seat of Government being the nearby town of Zomba,
development in the Central and Northern Regions tended to lag. Since
independence in 1964 the Government of Malawi has sought to redress this
imbalance in numerous ways, including the transfer of the administrative
capital from Zomba to Lilongwe in the Central Region. Prior to this
transfer Lilongwe had been a relatively small regional centre of some
16,000 inhabitants but by 1983 it had become not only an administrative
centre but an important focal point for agricultural, commercial,
industrial and allied activities with a large, modern international airport
nearing completion. The city's population had grown equally rapidly and in
1983 was estimated to be some 140,000. This rate of population increase
(approximately 8Z per annum) had thrown a heavy strain on the City's water
supply system and the late 1970's and early 1980's were years of increasing
shortages and failures in the system.



- 9 -
33.       The public water supply system had developed over many years
with the first being constructed in 1958 using a run of the river source.
In 1966, the Kamuzu dam was constructed on the Lilongwe River and a new
treatment plant was built within the city boundary. Further expansion took
place in the following years and by 1975 water production capacity was
nominally 14,000 m3/d. This plant continued to serve the city and by 1983,
under overload, it was producing some 20,000 m3/d but failing to meet
demand. In 1980, an emergency augmentation scheme had been initiated with
the objective of adding 10,000 m3/d to the treatment capacity by 1982. In
the event, due to a variety of factors beyond the control of LWB, this
augmentation scheme was not commissioned until 1984 by which time 30,000
m3/d was barely sufficient to meet the city's peak requirements.
B.   Project Preparation and Analysis
34.       The dramatic increase in the City's water requirements in the
1970's and its implications relating to future needs had not been
overlooked by those responsible for planning who forecast a population of
350,000 at the turn of the century. The first step in the direction away
from ad hoc solutions was a report in 1980 by the UNDP entitled "Long Term
Development of Lilongwe Water Supply - A Preliminary Appraisal". This
report was brief but it highlighted the need for source enhancement,
increase in production and distribution capacity, long term planning and
major strengthening of the Lilongwe Water Board's infrastructure. The UNDP
report was followed in February 1983, by the engagement of Consultants to
perform the studies and designs which are the subjects of this report.
35.       The project was structured to include the following elements:
(a) Consultancy Services for the production of a masterplan
(including sanitation and sewerage), a feasibility study,
and detailed design for a construction project to follow.
(b) provision of vehicles and other equipment for Lilongwe
Water Board to carry out its role on the Project.
(c) A low cost sanitation study and pilot project including
construction materials.
(d) The provision of management staff support costs for other
sectoral organizations.
(e) A review of the sectoral training needs.
C.   Project Implementation, Operation and Cost - The Master Plan for
Water Supply and Sanitation
36.       Initially, Consultants prepared a Master Plan for Lilongwe's
water supply and sanitation needs to the year 2005, it being considered



_ 10 -
that the two facilities are interlinked and cannot be developed entirely in
isolation. The draft of this Master Plan was presented in October 1983
seven months after the commencement of work and was accompanied by thirty-
two working papers. Subsequent to a review of this draft a supplementary
working paper was produced which embodied suggestions and modifications
agreed during the review.
37.       The terms of reference prepared by DLVW set out in considerable
detail an extensive schedule of topics which the Consultints were required
to study in the preparation of their Master Plan report. In addition, the
Consultants were also required to investigate and report upon the safety of
the existing Kamuzu Dam which had been suspect for a number of years. The
terms of reference were well prepared and left the Consultant with no
doubts as to the extent of his commitments which in turn pei.mitted
realistic and accurate planning prior to commencement.
38.       The main objective of the study as described in the terms of
reference may be summarized as being to 'Develop Master Plans outlining the
optimum programme for the expansion and development of Lilongwe's water
supply and sanitation systems to the year 2005.' The use of the word
*optimum" in this summary is to be noted as it was to have a considerable
impact on future events. The wide ranging fields of study called for by
the terms of reference required the Consultant to mobilize twenty
professionals all of whom were in Malawi for some part or all of the period
March - October 1983. For the sociological studies the Consultants were
fortunate in obtaining the services of two Malawians - one a Professor and
the other a graduate of sociology. All other members of the Consultant's
professional staff were expatriates and most had considerable overseas
experience.
39.       It is to be noted that whilst the LWB's de jure area of service
w&s limited to the somewhat vaguely defined boundaries of the old town, de
facto service areas covered the whole of 'greater' Lilongwe. In physical
dimension Lilongwe is a large city extending from the suburban community of
Lumbadzi north of the new airport to the old town boundary some 35 km to
the south and at its widest is nearly 11 km from east to west. The per
capita cost of servicing about 450 persons/km2 must inevitably be high and
this became the major factor influencing the development of the project.
40.       The Master Plan report was accompanied by four volumes of
appendices containing the working papers with each volume containing a
group of papers on closely allied subjects vizs
Vol 1     Base data and water resources (7 papers)
Vol II    Water supply.  Existing, stop gap requirement
and future (8 papers)
Vol III   Sanitation.  Existing and future (10 papers)
Vol IV    Financial, organization and management (7 papers)
41.       The Master Plan concluded that water supply development should
be implemented in two stages (though three stage development was considered
as an option). The first should be operational by 1990 and reach its



- 11 -
design capacity by 1997 with the second stage commissioned in 1997 and be
sufficient until 2005. In addition a stop gap measure was necessary to
meet demands until 1990. It was recommended that the proposal for the
first stage development should be carried into a feasibility study without
delay and that immediate steps be taken to reinforce the LWB's management
by means of recruitment and training. The principal areas of study
recommended to be developed at feasibility level were:
(a) strengthening and repair of the existing Kamuzu Dam;
(b) enhancement of the water source as the risk of failure of
the Kamuzu reservoir was unacceptably high even at the then
current levels of abstraction;
(c) detailed descriptions and preliminary designs of all
components of a new treatment works, pumping stations,
reservoirs and pipelines to serve the city until 1997;
*d) refinement of the managerial, organizational and legal
requirements of the LWB;
*e) financial and economic analysis of capital and operational
costs.
42.       In their draft Master Plan the Consultants had, in accordance
with their brief, devised an optimum scheme for the development of the
city's water supply in terms of sizing, staging of construction, technical
quality and long term overall economy. However, in the course of formal
review in December 1983 a number of issues were raised some of which were
of sufficient importance in the view of the World Bank and clients to
warrant re-appraisal of certain aspects of some of the working papers.
Further, at this time the World Bank representatives intimated that a
deferment of post feasibility financing until the financial year 1987 could
not be avoided and that, consequently, project implementation would have to
be re-scheduled. The most important issues arising from the review of the
working papers were the population projections, growth rates in per capita
water consumption in the various population sectors and the affordability
of both the proposed route of the transmission lines linking the southern
and northern sections of the city and proposed service reservoir
capacities. These constraints were duly taken into account in a
supplementary working paper submitted in February 1984 which was formally
approved in April 1984 and became the basis for the Feasibility Study.
This scheme was inevitably less than the optimum envisaged by the
Consultants in terms of flexibility and security of supply but nevertheless
represented a sound beginning to long term development of the city's water
supply.
43.       The Feasibility Study - Water Supply Stage 1.       The
Consultants commenced work toward the end of April 1984 with their brief
calling for a study of the first stage to 1997 of a two-stage water supply
development with design criteria as approved in the Master Plan



- 12 -
supplementary working paper. Also included was a study of the existing
Kamuzu Dam. Sanitation studies did not proceed beyond the Master Plan.
44.       Work proceeded expeditiously as the Consultants staff were very
largely those who had prepared the Master Plan. A major component of the
study was the selection of the most advantageous dam site from sixteen
alternatives which had been identified previously and to ensure that the
elimination of other possible sources, e.g. Lake Malawi, was justified.
Four dam sites were eventually selected as having sufficient merit to
warrant detailed study. A water treatment plant having a design capacity
of 45,000 m3/d was brought to preliminary design stage with its proposed
location adjacent to and upstream of the existing waterworks. The
transmission pipe system, booster pumping stations and reservoir
requirements were also brought to a similar level of refinement. Kamuzu
Dam was further investigated and it was confirmed that there was an urgent
need for strengthening the concrete spillway structure and that its flood
carrying capacity probably needed enhancement to meet current estimates of
maximum floods. Finally cost estimates were prepared and subjected to
financial analysis.
45.       The draft was presented in August 1984, some seventeen months
after project initiation and the expenditure of one hundred man-months of
Consultants' input. Since the study had been made in Malawi wLth very
close liaison betwef  the LWB and the Consultants the engineering design
aspects of the study were well established and acceptable at the time of
presentation. Financially, the proposed scheme was less acceptable as the
revised cost estimates indicated that capital expenditure (totalling MK37
million in December 1983) would demand tariff increases beyond the ability
to pay of most of the population and beyond the Goverranent's permissible
maximum.
46.       There followed a period of intensive technical review in which
five modified versions of the proposed scheme were prepared. Each of these
versions embodied modifications and/or omissions designed to reduce capital
costs whilst still providing for the city's water needs at a reasonable if
not ideal level. After comparative evaluation of these options a sixth
version was developed from them and this was found to be acceptable both
financially and technically. Essentially the deviations from the draft
proposals were:
(a) the dam would be built in two stages with the first to
serve until 1997. The long term wisdom of this is open to
question as the initial saving was estimated to be a modest
MKl.l million and the cost of raising the height of the dam
by 5m post 1997 will be many times this amount;
(b) per capita water consumption was assumed to remain constant
until 1991 and thereafter growth rates would be lower than
previously projected. This permitted the design capacity
of the proposed treatment works to be reduced from 45,000
m3/d to 32,000 m3/d;



-  13  -
(c) wherever possible component construction should be staged
and every non-essential component or part of a component
should be excised;
(d) the technically desirable western ring main was finally
eliminated and reliance placed upon a central north-south
spine main. Provision for fire flows would be reduced and
a 102-152 drop in supply pressures would be accepted during
daily peak demand hours;
(e) treated water storage volumes would be reduced by about
30S.
47.       These modifications were duly applied to the scheme proposed in
the draft Feasibility Study and resulted in a scheme with an estimated
total cost of MK26 million in constant December 1983 Kwacha. This sum
included the remedial work to the Kamuzu Dam which has been incorporated
into the project but excluded the cost of the stop gap scheme to bridge the
period up to commissioning of Stage I construction. The time required for
implementation was estimated to be one and a half years from commencement
of detailed design to award of the first construction contract followed by
a two- or three-year construction period. The scheme thus modified was
accepted as being the best possible in the circumstances but it was
recognized by all concerned that technically it was less than ideal.
However, the modified scheme would produce water meeting all appropriate
standards of quality and would be adequate in terms of quantity well into
the next decade. It would permit standards of service during its early
years equal to those set out in the Feasibility Study but these standards,
as regards pressure and adequacy of supply, would decline in the mid-1990s
if either the population projections or per capita demands have been under
estimated. Operationally, the scheme will be less flexible and less secure
than the originally proposed scheme and it will require higher standards of
supervision to achieve optimum overall efficiency.
48.       The project moved into the detailed design phase in March 1985
with the same Consultants being re-appointed to act for the LWB. Included
in the Consultants' brief was the design of the stop-gap scheme which was
to take the form of a 5,000 m3/d permanent extension to the existing
waterworks using as far as possible surplus equipment remaining from the
augmentation scheme which had been commissioned in 1984.
49.       Project Detailed Design.  The Consultants commenced work in
March 1985 mobilizing a team of eight professionals in Malawi whose
function was to carry out investigations and surveys and prepare basic
designs and documents which would then be refined and detailed to contract
document level in the Consultants' head offices in Canada and Australia.
50.       Extensive site investigations confirmed that the preferred dam
site had been well chosen structurally, and that the abundance of suitable
earth, sand and rock virtually on site would make a zoned earthfill
structure impounding 9 x 106 m3 most attractive economically. Previous



- 14 -
detailed hydrological work and operation studies had established the
reliability of the Lilongwe River's resources as more than adequate to
supply the citv well into the next century given proper regulation but that
the existing Kamuzu Dam with an active storage of 4.5 x 10 m3 had a 1 in 6
years risk of serious shortfall with a water supply demand of 30,000 m3/d.
(A serious shortfall being defined as the ability to supply only 75Z of
demand over a period of three peak months). During the Master Plan and
Feasibility studies spillway design floods had received less rigorous
attention, it being considered that the traditional approach was sufficient
at those stages, i.e. an extrapolation of the frequency analysis of
observed floods to the 10,000 year flood. This approach yielded a flood of
1,100 cumecs and was in fair agreement with the design capacity of 1,300
cumecs believed to have been used for the Kamuzu Dam spillway 6 km
upstream. However, there is always uncertainty associated with this
traditional approach which is caused by the need to extrapolate the curve
to a point far beyond any observed data and therefore the more modern
concept of the Probable Maximum Flood (PMF) resulting from the Probable
Maximum Precipitation (PMP) was used to estimate the spillway design flood.
This approach also requires subjective judgments but does take into account
recorded extreme events which could conceivably be translated to the
Lilongwe catchment such as the cyclonic storm which precipitated over SOOmm
of rain in Zomba on 14 December 1946. The PMF thus estimated was 2,300
cumecs and this was the design flood adopted for both the new dam and the
modification of Kamuzu Dam. The design of the new treatment works followed
conventional lines with vertical spindle pumps drawing river water from wet
wells. Two forebays only were allowed for as opposed to three as
originally proposed but sizing is such that forebay and well will serve
efficiently for very much larger future pumps. A raw water pre-
settling/balancing tank has been provided but the design of the treatment
process was to be the subject of a separate contract against a performance
specification with the associated civil work being carried out as a
provisional item in the civil construction contract. Booster pumping
stations, transmission mains and reservoirs are of conventional design with
tank designs and capacities being replicated as far as possible.
Transmission main design was assisted by a computer analysis of the
reticulation system. The major work required at Kamuzu Dam was determined
to be the raising of the embankments by 1.5 m and the insertion of eighteen
vertical, stressed tendons along the spillway crest plus grout injection
throughout the length of the mass concrete spillway body and the
replacement of the bucket at the spillway toe. No work was done in 1985 on
the 5,000 m3/d extension to the existing waterworks, this being largely due
to the uncertainty of finance availability.
51.       In all, draft contract documents were prepared for eight
contracts viz:
Contract A     Dam Construction and Remedial Works to the Kamuzu
Dam
Contract B     Construction of Civil Works at Water Treatment
Site



- 15 -
Contract C     Supply and Installation of Water Treatment Plant
Contract D     Supply and Installation of Pumps, Motors and
Associated Equipment
Contract E     Construction of Reservoirs, Water Towers and
Pumping Stations
Contract F     Supply of Pipes, Valves and Fittings for
Transmission Mains (Steel or Ductile Iron)
Contract G     Supply of Pipes, Valves and Fittings for
Distribution Mains (PVC1
Contract H     Installation of Transmission Mains
The Conditions of Contract in each case were the appropriate FIDIC document
and the World Bank/ADB Sample Bidding Documents were used as guidelines
throughout tender document preparatiou. Concurrently, an invitation to
pre-qualify was prepared covering all eight contracts and this -as
advertised internationally in August and September 1985, with applications
being required to conform to the FIDIC standard pre-qualification form. By
October 15, valid applications totalled 350 from 113 companies representing
24 different countries. At the end of November an appraisal report was
presented to the LWB in which 182 applications from 19 countries were
recommended for approval. This recommendation was accepted and later
endorsed by the World Bank.
52.       The draft contract documents and cost estimates were virtually
complete at the beginning of February 1986 and during that month an
appraisal mission from the World Bank visited Lilongwe. At the same time,
as required by the World Bank two independent experts were brought to
Lilongwe by the LWB with assignments to examine the design of the proposed
dam and the associated hydrology. The criticisms resulting from the
examination of the new dam design were generally minor but constructive and
after discussion with the Consultants, a suggestion that the internal
drainage system be increased was agreed and the cross sections of the
chimney and finger drains were accordingly slightly modified. The
hydrological examination addressed the issues of the reservoir evaporation,
sedimentation, spillway design flood magnitude, operational analysis and
the optimization of the conjunctive use of Kamuzu Dam and the new dam. The
conclusions reached concurred with those of the Consultants in all issues
except that of probable maximum flood which in the experts' opinion should
be in the order of 1,900 cumecs, i.e. 400 cumecs less than the Consultants'
estimate. However, both parties admitted to a degree of uncertainty and it
was agreed that the higher flood magnitude should stand. In the other
areas of the Project the Consultants' draft designs attracted very little
adverse criticism.
53.       Financial aspects of the proposed scheme were studied in
considerable detail by the appraisal mission and whilst their conclusion
was favorable to Project implementation it contained the proviso that a



- 16 -
six-year construction/disbursement profile should be adopted and that the
5.000 m3/d extension to the existing waterworks should be in operation by
June 1988. The introduction of a six-year construction programme
necessitated considerable re-planning as previously three years had been
allowed for construction with final disbursements being made at the end of
the fourth year. For the new programme a two-phase approach was proposed
with the dam being constructed in the first phase spanning the three years
1987-89 and the balance of the work being started in 1990 with
commissioning in the third quarter of 1992. Also, in consequence of the
change, Consultants' input had to be re-scheduled to take into account the
two-year lag in contract award and the extended period of supervision.
54.       Tenders for the construction of the new dam and repairs to the
Kamuzu Dam (Contract A), were invited in June 1986 and from the twenty-four
pre-qualified contractors fourteen bids from eight countries were received
on 7 August. The spread of bid prices was wide, ranging from MK12.0 to
MK23.9 million with five bids being only slightly above or less than the
Consultants' estimate of MK14.7 million. A tender evaluation report was
prepared by the Consultants and submitted to the LWB in the first week of
September 1986. The Consultants' recommendation that Contract A should be
awarded to the lowest bidder was accepted by the LWB and endorsed by them
to the Malawi Government and the World Bank. The formal contract between
the LWB and the recommended contractor was executed in February 1987 with a
completion period of twenty-two months and a commitment to commence storage
in the wet season of 1988/89.
55.       In June 1986, the Consultants began to investigate in detail the
proposed 5,000 m3/d extension to the existing waterworks which was to
become known as Section D. Preliminary work required a considerable amount
of on site checking as the new work had to marry with the older which had
not been designed to accept an extension. The utilization of surplus
equipment remaining from 1980/84 augmentation scheme proved complicated as
some items were incomplete and others in an unusable condition. The
Consultants then recommended that a contract be negotiated with a supplier
to provide and install the balance of the equipment required for the
clarifiers and filters. This recommendation was based upon the need for
haste and the fact that the original designer and supplier of the surplus
equipment F'ad once been part of the same group. This procedure was
approved and a contract was negotiated with and awarded in March 1987 with
offshore funding being provided under the IDA credit. The Consultants
prepared the contract documents for the civil works and from locally
established contractors received only one tender in July 1987. This tender
was accepted and the contract awarded in September 1987 with a completion
period of seven months. At this point the two contracts for Section D were
handed over to the LWB who then undertook the supervision of construction
using their own staff.
56.       Provision of Management Staff Support for LWB.  The credit
financed the salaries and benefits for an expatriate Engineer/Manager and
Financial Controller over the 4-year period commencing in April 1983.



- 17 -
57.       Provision of Vehicles and Other Equipment.  Initially the main
item bought under this provision was the computer for the billing system.
As it subsequently became clear that funds remained available the following
additional items were purchased:
(a) two pick-ups
(b) water meters for the replacement programme
(c) water meters test bench
(d) mobile leak detection meter
58.       Urban Low-Cost Sanitation Demonstration Project.  The Government
of Malawi and the World Bank agreed to undertake an Urban Low Cost
Sanitation Demonstration Project, executed through the Department of Water,
in the Ministry of Works and Supplies, and the Technology Advisory Group at
the World Bank. A full time Sanitation Advisor was attached to the
project, and the component is continuing under the on-going Second Lilongwe
Water Supply Project (Cr. 1742-MAI).
59.       Provision of Management Staff Support Costs for Other Sectoral
Organizations. During the credit negotiation stage, it was
agreed by IDA and the Malawi Government that this provision in part D (ii)
of Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement was unnecessary, and no funds were
therefore expended on it.
60.       Review of Sectoral Training Needs.  This element in part E of
Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement, was also agreed to be unnecessary in
the light of other reports commissioned independently by Malawi Government
on the subject.
D.   Project Costs and Disbursement
61.       Introduction.  The project was financed by an IDA credit to GOM
in the amount of SDR 3,600,000 which at that time approximated to USS
4,000,000. Of this amount, up to USS 3,600,000 was to be on-lent to LWB by
GOM in Malawi Kwacha at historic rates of exchange, at 122 p.a. interest
rate over 25 years, including a 5-year grace period.
62.       Cost Comparison - SDR.  Actual disbursements in SDR against the
SDR 3.6 million credit have been compared to the amounts allocated in
Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement with Government dated 25 May 1982.
The results of this comparison are:



- 18 _
AMOUN (§OR)
NUMBER  ITEM DESCRIPTION                   ALLOCATION        SP    UHDER/(OVER)
1.    Supply of:
(a) construction mateirlal          70,000               0       70,000
(b) vehileso, flow metering
equipment and miscel-
lInous equipment and
supplies                           860,000          281,412       98,568
2     Consultants' and advisors'
services and managomnt
staff support:
(a) for Perts A, B, and
D (1) of the Projoct
-      th Prle ents               2,490,000       2,977,791     (487,791)
(b) for Parts C, 0 (2) and
E of the Project
- Sanitation and other
elements                           80,000           103,686      22f,414
8     Unallocated                         860,000              0       360,000
8,600,000       8,842,789     297.2-'
A description of the project as set out in Schedule 2 of the above
Agreement has been attached as Annex I and detailed expenditure schedules
as Annexes II and III. In June 1988 the World Bank statement indicated an
undisbursed balance of SDR 257,212.04 which was then formally cancelled.
This relates to the actual total under-expenditure above.
63.       Comments on these expenditures are as follows:
(a)  Construction Materials:  These relate to the low cost
sanitation project and, although funds were expended, no
reimbursements were claimed through this project.
(b)  Vehicles, etc.:  Because of the high costs incurred on
consultancy, and the strength of the US Dollar against the
SDR, expenditure on equipment, other than the computer for
the billing system, was delayed to ensure that the other
elements of the project could be fully funded. In 1986187
it became clear that funds would be available and
disbursements were made, but time did not permit the
expenditure of the full allocation.



- 19 -
tc)  ConsultancZ and Management Staff Support - LWB:  These may
be broken down as followss
SDR
Allocated    Spent   Under/(Over)
Consultancy -   1,339,000  1,612,294   (273,294)
Study
Detailed
Design          857,000   1,006,440   (149,440)
Management
Staff Support     294,000      359,057    (65,057)
TOTAL           2,490,000   2,977,791   (487,791)
These figures have been derived from prorating the more detailed
figures in the World Bank President's Report dated May 26, 1982.
5d) Master Plan and Feasibility Study: The contract awarded
for the consultancy for the master plan and feasibility
study was much more costly than anticipated. This appears
to have come about due to a possible misinterpretation of
the World Bank guidelines for the selection of consultants.
A two-stage procedure was adopted, but the financial
proposals do not appear to have been adequately considered.
The fees accepted were thus very high. The extent of the
study is also considered to have been too wide ranging with
no account taken of previous similar studies. These two
factors combined to result in a very expensive consultancy.
Savings were made against the original contract which
reduced the over-expenditure here to 202.
Ie) The Detailed EngineerinR Design Consultancy was negotiated
by LWB (as opposed to the situation above where GOM
negotiated the agreement). Significant reductions in unit
costs in real terms were achieved. Additional items such
as the design of the Section D works were also included
(SDR 23,000) which reduced the over-expenditure on this
phase to 142, which, given the strength of the inflation
factor since the time of the original estimates, is not
unreasonable.
(f) Management Support Costs
Ci)     Denomination of the US Dollar for the
Engineer/Manager's contract when the US Dollar was
stronger than originally forecast. The original



- 20 -
project costing was at SDR 1 - US$ 1.10 which slipped
to 1.06 in July 1983, 1.02 in July 1984, 0.95 in
March, 1.01 in July 1985, before weakening in 1986.
(ii)     The necessity of paying the salary and benefits (SDR
11,000) for the Financial Controller for 4 months in
1987 from this credit because of the late
effectiveness of the following credit (Cr. 1742-MAI).
(g)  Low Cost Sanitation:  Only one claim was made for this
element of the project throughout its life, amounting to
US$ 105,000 or SDR 103,586. This was due to the failure of
the mechanisms within Government for claiming reimbursement
of expenditure incurred by Government Departments.
64.       Cost Comparison in Malawi Kwacha:  The estimated expenditure on
the project in Malawi Kwacha terms was derived from an annex to the World
Bank President's Report dated 26 May 1982. On these estimates the credit
figure of US$ 4 million or SDR 3.6 million was based, using an exchange
rate of US$ 1 - MK 1.8.
The outturn costs are set out as:
Number  Item Description            Estimate      Actual Cost      Under/(Over)
Local Foroipr   Local Foreign   Lo I cFaoreign
1     Consultancy:
(a) Master Plan and
Feasibilliy Study      201   1848    472    2119    (271)    (771)
(b) Detale d DesIgn       100   862      261    1989    (161)   (1127)
2     Managment Statt Support
(a) Lilongwe Water Board   67    296    110    681        (43)    (385)
(b) Other Sector
Organizations         21    98        0       0       21       98
8     Equipment and Supplies      0    806    111    646        (111)   (340)
4     Sector Organization
and Training Need
Assement                  10    91       0       0        1 0     91
6     Low Cost Sanitation         80   274      n/a    189        80    a8
Base Costs           479   8276    944    6824       (465)  (2348)
Contingencies:
Phyiecal                  69   409       0       0        59    409
Price                    148   716       0       0       148    718
Tot.al Costs         68e   4400    944   s624         =    t122I
(a)  In general, foreign costs are very much higher in Kwacha
terms because of the numerous devaluations over the period.
These resulted in an average SDR/MK exchange rate of 1.68
against the original figure of 1.22 giving rise to over-
expenditure on foreign costs incurred of K1.5 million.



- 21 -
This figure reconciles to the net over-expenditure above of
MK1.2 million if the under-expenditure in SDR of 257,000 at
1.22 is taken into account.
(b) Local expenditures have in general been under-estimated
taking into account the very high levels of inflation in
Malawi over the period 1983 to 1986.
In addition vehicles worth MK111,000 were purchased by GOM from local
resources rather than IDA funds as originally envisaged.
65.       On-Lending to Lilongwe Water Board:  Under the on-lending
agreement LWB was expected to repay to GOM full costs of the project with
the exception of those relating to sanitation and other sectoral
programmes. Following the LWB's budget discussions in February/March 1988
it was agreed that the Government would take over all costs in respect of
the Master Plan and Feasibility Study. This decision, whilst pragmatic in
that it allowed a lower tariff increase to be awarded, also recognized that
these studies took in areas which did not only relate to LWB, such as the
sanitation master plan, and were far more ambitious and costly than would
have been undertaken by the Board on purely commercial grounds.
66.       In assessing the amount to be borne by Government the costs of
consultancy, management support and vehicles relating to these studies were
deducted from the on-lending. Amounts funded by Government in respect of
the Design stage were added into the on-lending. Interest has been
capitalized on the IDA input to provide the Government loan principal which
may be summarized as follows:
MK
Total drawn down from IDA                5,624,101.59
Total Malawi Government expenditure        633,381.81
6,257,483.40
Less Borne by GOM:
Relating to master plan and feasi-
bility study                          -2,775,244.23
Relating to sanitation                    -189,429.92
3,292,811.25
Add capitalized interest                    637,584.28
3,930,395.53
A repayment schedule for the revised loan from GOM is attached as Annex IV.



- 22 -
E.   Conclusion
(a) the initial consultancy for the Master Plan and Feasibility
Study is considered to have been excessively wide ranging
and expensive, and could have been negotiated down.
(b) it would have been more appropriate if the Management
Support Staff could have been in post before the
formulation of the terms of reference for the consultancy
and its award.
(c) it would have been preferable to have avoided the inclusion
in the credit of organizations and programmes outside the
responsibility of the executing agency.



- 23 -
MALAWI
LILONGME WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1272-MAl)
PART IIIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
LoanlCredit                              Year of
Title            Purpose              Approval          Status          Comments
Credit 711-MAI     Increase              1977           Completion        Closing
Blantyre Water     Blantyre                             in July 1984      date Sept.
Supply Project     Water Supply                                            30, 1983.
Project
closed in
1984; PCR
in June,
1986.
Credit 1742-HAI    Expand Lilongwee's   1986            In progress
Second Lilongwe    water supply to
Water Supply       meet the demand
Project            to 1997



_ 24 -
2. Proiect Timetable
Item                   Date            Date           Date
Planned        Revised        Actual
Identification                                        08/80
(Executive Project
Summary)
-  Preparation                                           09/81
- Appraisal Mission       04182                          n.a.
- Credit Negotiations    05/82                           05/24-26/82
- Board Approval          05/82                          06124182
- Credit Signature        06/82                          09127/82
- Credit Effectiveness   07/82            12/17/82       02102/83
- Award consulting        02/831/                        03/31/83
services contract
for engineering
- Consultants submit      09/83                          10/21/83
draft Master Plan
Report
- Consultants submit      10/84                          08/84
draft Feasibility
Report
- Consultants begin       01/85           03/85          03/85
detailed design
- Consultants complete   07/85            08/85          02/86
design and
preparation of
documents
- Credit Closing          06/30/86                       06/30/87
- Credit Completion       12/31/85        12/31/86       10/27/87
1/ All subsequent dates based on Attachment to Agreed Minutes of Negotiations.



- 25 -
3. Credit Disbursements
Disbursements (US $ '000)
Appraisal         Actual         Actual Z of
Bank Fiscal Year                       Estimate         Cumulative        Estimated
1983                                    400                0                 0
1984                                  1,500             1,300               86.7
1985                                  3,200             1.700               53.1
1986                                  4,000             2,998               75.0
1987                                   -                3,340               83.5
1988                                                    3.606               90.2
Date of Final Disbursement 10127187



- 26 -
4. Project Implementation
Appraisal        Actual (or
Indicators                                           Estimate        PCR Estimate
Rate of Return                                    Not applicable   Not applicable



- 27 -
S.   Prolect Cost. and Ftnanela
A.     Proltct Cst.
Awrailso Estimate                 Actual
LocI   Exchange Total       Local  Exchange TOTAL
cat"    coot.   Coot        cost    Cost    COSTS
Mastor Plan Stdies
Water supply                               St       412   658         -          62S    525
Spg. and Sanitation                        92       1SS    107        -          lOt    1Os
Feassb I ty Stwdy
Water Supply                              107       604    711        174o    1,145   1,819
Engineering Osigm                            107       824    931        142     1,101   1,248
Oe_mtrtlon Project                            82       1S5    187         -                 -
Ibnagmnt sat                                  se       830    428         64       $9;    469
Sector Orgnlantion and
Training Needs Assessmn                     11        67    98          -         20      20
Equlpent and Supplies                       _4          865    489        54       816    870
ASE COSTS                                    525    8,012  8,587         484     3,607   4,041
Physical Contingeetes                        64       87s    442         -         -       -
Price Contlngencies                          161       610    771         --        -       -
TOTAL COSTS                                  750      4,000 4,750         484     3,607 4,041
o Include Magur Plan local coo".



- 28 -
B. Prolect Financing
Planned
(Credit
Source                                  Agreement)        Final        Conments
(US$'000)       (US$'000)        (Z)
IDA                                       4,000           3,607           90.2
Government of Malawi                        750              434          57.9*
Total                                    4,750           4,041           85.1
* Actual Local expenditure of MK693,000 compares with MK810,0000 planned.



_ 29 -
6.   Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
This sectiou is *Not Applicable* as this is an Engineering Credit.
B. Economic Impact
This sectien is -Not Applicable* as this is an Engineering Credit.
C. Financial Iv2act
This section is "Not Applicable' as this is an Engineering Credit.



_ 30 -
D. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                                Impact of
Appraisal                Status             Study
Master Plan
Water Supply             compare costs and       Completed         Formed basis
benefits of                               for Feasibility
alternatives.                             Study.
Recommend optimum
program of long-
term supply.
Sewerage and            Compare costs and        Completed         Basis of low-
Sanitation              benefits.  Recommend                       cost pilot
pilot study.                              sanitation
program.
Feasibility Study -         identify Phase III      Completed         Formed basis
Water Supply            Vater Supply                               for Engineering
Project, incl.                            Design.
financing
structure.
Engineering Design          prepare detailed        Completed         Phase III
engineering                               Project
designs and                               commenced -
bidding documents                         Credit 1742 -
for Phase III                             MAI.
Project.
Demonstration Project       construct and           Completed         Construction of
demonstrate                               sanitary
low-cost                                  low-cost waste
sanitation                                disposal
systems in
progress.
Manpower Development        recommend training      Not proceeded    LWB needs were
and Training Study         measures for LiB;        with.             identified with
sector-wide                               Bank assistance
training strategy                         and funded
through ODA.



- 31 -
7.  Status of Covenants
Brief Description                Section
of Covenants                  Applicable    Compliance         Remarks
The Borrower was generally in
compliance with all applicable
covrenants.



- 32 -
S.  Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff weeks)
Stage of                    Planned        Revised         Final
Project Cycle              09  Field      HQ  Field     HQ   FlO£a      Comments
Through Appraisal          --    --       --   --       16.7   9.8
Appraisal Through
Board Approval             --    --       --   --        4.5    --
Board Approval
Through Effectiveness      --    -_       --   --        2.1    --
Supervision                --    --       --   --      30.7  10.4
Total                --    --        --   --      54.0  20.2



- 33 -
8.* Ulesions
Stago of             Month/   mholer of  Doyl in  Specialization          Pertoranme          Types of
Project Cycle          Year    Persons      Field    Roeresented         Ration Status      Problems
Identification
Throgh
Effectivoness
02/79       1           6
08/79       1           1      Sanitary Enneer -sr
08/80       1           S      Sanitary Engineer         -
02/01       1           S      Sanitary Engineer         -
04/O 1      1           4      Sanitary Engineer         - 
07/81       1           C      Sanitary Engineer         -
08/81       1          1i      Financial Analyst A
Sanitary Engineer         -
Supervision
Supervislon 1       02/03       1           3      Sanitary Engineer          1
Supervision 2       07/83       2           2      Financial nalyst a         1           Management
Sanitary Engineer
Supervision 8       12/83       2           7      Financial nalyst           I 1
Sanitary Engineer
Supervision 4       02/84       1           6      Sanitary Engineer          1
Supervision C       12/34       1           a      Sanitary Engineer          1
Supervision 6       03/85       1           6      Sanitary Engineer          2
Supervision 7       08/86       1           3      Sanitary Engineer          1
Supervision 5       07/85       1           2      Training Specialist        -
Supervision 9       08/8C       2           4      Financial Analyst &        1
Sanitary Engineer



- 34 -
ANNEX I
MALAWI
LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1272-MAI)
DESCRIPTION Or THE PROJECT
The project consists of studies to assist in the future development of the
borrower's water supply and waste disposal sector and is comprised of the
following main components:
Part A    A master plan for the long-range development of water supply,
sewerage and sanitation in Lilongwe;
Part B    A feasibility study - including field investigation, detailed
engineering designs and preparation of contract documents for
the initial stage of a Lilongwe water supply project;
Part C    A pilot project to demonstrate appropriate low-cost sanitation
facilities and practices;
Part D    Provision of management staff support for:
a.   Lilongwe Water Board, and
b.   Other entities in the water supply and waste disposal
sector;
Part E    Studies to assess the needs of the Borrower's water supply and
waste disposal sector relative to organization, manpower and
training.



- 35 -
AIE  II
MALAWI
LILONOWE WATER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1272Z-AI)
FINAL COST ANALYSIS - IDA RESOURCES
_ US           SOR                MK
Consultancy -
Master Plan end Feasibility Study           1,669,719.77    1,695,116.69       2,110,908.29
Consultency -
Detlled Design                              1.100.746.38   1.008.440.34        1.9658134.92
Total Consultancy                         2,770,468.10    2,601,566.93      4,072,042.92
Management Support Costs                        395,187.98       859,057.44        881,821.92
Sundry Equipment                                815,810.94       261,410.84        646,118.87
Others                                           19,918.71        17177.63          85,1956.46
Total Lilongw. Water Board Portion        8,501,338.72    3,239,201.84      6,434,673.67
Sanitation                                      10S.000.7      _ 103.S86.12        189.427.92
Total Expenditure from IDA Funds                           !A=& =                     .69
FINAL COST ANALYSIS - LOCAL RESOURCES
me             LWB              TOTAL
M1              MK               UK
Consultancy -
Master Plan                                   220,687.49              .00        220,887.49
Feasibility Study                             216,685.84        34,643.18        21.1328.00
Total Consultancy                          437,372.33        84,648.16        472,015.49
Management Support Costs                         84,692.52        24,968.89        109,661.41
Sundry Equipment                                 111,816.96              .00       111,816.96
Others                                                  .00             .00               .00
Total Lilongo Water Board Portion           888,881.81        59,612.05        692,993.88
Sanitation                                              .00             .00               .00
Total Expenditure from Local Funds           2       !       IMM!!:05



MALAWI
LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1272-MAI)
FINAL COST ANALYSIS
DATE     CLAIM  PAYEE                DESCRIPTION                   EXPENSE           US$          SOR         NU
NO.                                                      TYPE
11.07.83  162    RobertsonLapp4er   May/July Salarles              N/Supp       16827.01    15827.80    19186.46
07.07.83   3     Stanley Int.        Working Capital Advance       Cons.NP     454232.00   426937.96   517534.20
23.08.83   4     Stanley Int.        Local Involce Incorrectly     Cons.nP       6159.29      5855.51     7098.05
paid, deducted from claim 10
24.08.83   5     Stanley Int.        Invoices 1:3                  Cons.MP     288241.85   273217.61   331194.39
06.09.83 687    Robertson/Lapper    Aug/Sept Salarles             "NSupp         11192.16    10710.71    12983.51
8     Number omitted from series
21.09.83   9     Stanley Int.        Invoice 4                     Cons.1nP     85704.4fl   81412.86   105189.59
07.10.83   10    Stanley Int.        Invoice S                     Cons.nP      48159.90    45199.34    58399.87
07.11.83  11112  Robertson/Lapper    Oct/Nov Salaries              n/Supp       10693.06    10174.28    13813.62
07.11.83   13    Stanley Int.        Invoice 6                     Cons."P     102476.04    97504.30   132381.59
06.12.83  14t15  Robertson/Lapper    Dec/Jan Salaries              N/Supp        10674.97    10218.60    13873.79
28.12.83   16    Stanley Int.        Invoice 7                     Cons. NP    105732.07   101442.08   137727.91
17    Number omitted from series
24.02.84  16819 Robertson/Lapper    Feb/nor Salaries               N/Supp       10496.21      9942.47    13826.45             w
15.03.84   20    Stanley Int. ,      Invoice a:1O                  Cons.MP     193438.71   181562.69   252489.36
16.04.84  21&22  Robertson/Lapper    Apr/Nay Salaries              N/Supp       10595.15    10016.31    14065.87
18.05.84   23    Stanley lot.        Involce 11:13                 Cons.NP      5192.76    50032.55    70617.57
25.ut.84  24625  Robertson/Lapper    Jun/Jul Salarles              N/Supp       10463.13    10172.61    14443.07
10.07.84  25a    L.W.B.              Relbursement                 n/Supp        1644.50      1609.43     2316.45
26    Number omitted from series
17.0a.84   27    Statley Int.        Invoice 14                    Cons.NP      66138.07    64821.54    95170.99
2S.07.84   28    Stanley Int.        Involce 15                    Cono.NP      55304.70    54390.93    78991.95
12.09.84   29   Stanley Int.         Involee 16                    Cons.JP      94100.42    93748.86   138682.69
12.09.a4   30    Lapper              Aug/Sept Salary               w/Supp        3713.29     3699.42      5472.55
12.09.84   31    Robertson           AugJSept Salary               "ISupp        6666.67     6641.76      9825.16
01.10.84  32633  Robertson/Lapper    Oct/Nov Salaries              N/Supp       10379.96    10450.66    15571.48
01.10.84   34    Stanley lat.        Ijvolce 17                    Cons.MP      30985.93    31196.98    46483.50
23.11.84  35636  Robertson/Lapper    Dec/Jan Salaries              n/Supp       10126.53    10138.44    15173.19
13.02.85  37138  Robertson/Lupper    Feb/Mar Salaries              N/Supp        9968.17    10381.40    16008.12
SUBTOTAL CARRIED FORWARD                 1706007.03  1627307.lO  2138521.38
0QZ
o~ H



DATE      CLAIM  PAYEE                DESCRIPTION                    EXPENSE           US$          SDR          "K
NO.                                                       TYPE
SUBTOTAL BROUGHT FORWARD                  1706007.03  1627307.10  2138521.38
04.03.85   39    Stanley Int.         Invoice 18                     Cons.MP      31590.00    33086.47    51379.98
24.04.85  40&41  Robertson/Lapper    Apr/May Salaries                n/Supp       10030.69    10118.85    17791.98
03.06.85  42&43  Robertson/Lapper    Jun/Jul Salarieo                M/Supp       10030.69    10040.15    17845.36
30.07.85   44    Stanley Int.         Invoice 19                     Cons.nP      55563.55    54705.91    95566.65
07.08. a5   45    Robertson           Aug/Sept Salary                n/Supp        6666.67      6518.95    11466.35
07.0a.85   46    Robertson            Oct Salary & Gratuity etc.    MI/supp       S1410.26    50271.12    88423.19
07.08.85   47    Lapper               Aug Salary & Gratuity etc.    H/Supp        22491.34    21P92.98    38684.03
08.08.85   48    Stanley Int.         Invoice 19                     ConB. DE    383318.10   373367.85   659287.66
19.09.85   49    Stanley lat.         Invoice 20                     Cons.DE      22845.37    22280.94    40745.34
20.09.85   50    U.s.                 Claim no.1                     Sanit.      105000.00   103586.12   189427.92
22.10.85   51    Stanley Int.         Invoice 21                     Cons.DE     110251.29   103480.56   189338.38
29.11.85   52    Stanley Int.         Invoice 22                     Cone.DE      74046.42    69026.27   126821.9f
29.11.85   53    I.C.L.               Computer                       Equip.       77979.31    72692.52   133557.94
13.12.85   54    Stanley Int.         Invoice 23                     Cone.DE       7375.75     6814.90    12467.18         1
03.01.86   55    Lapper               School Fees                    U/Supp        2408.00      2261.96     4159.97        w
31.12.85   56    Lapper               Nov/Jan Salary                 H/Supp        4556.23     4164.40      7658.75        -.
31.01.86   57    Stanley lat.         Invoice 24                     Conos.DE     76046.33    69506.39   127829.19
31.01.86   58    Robertson            Jan/har Salary                 N/Supp        6666.67     5996.57    11168.01          1
31.01.86   59    Lapper               Feb/har Salary                 n/Supp        3044.20     2738.22      5099.66
24.03.86   60    Robertson            Apr/May Salary                 P/Supp        6666.67      5806.19    11306.97
26.03.86   61    Jolly                Hydrologist                    0th           9412.60     8308.12    16179.23
02.04.86  62863  Stanley Int.         Invoice 25&26                  Cons.DE     168139.72   147982.54   293848.93
25.04.a6   64    Lapper               Apr/May Salary                 M/Supp        2842.44     2430.82      5039.6S
06.05.86  64a    Lapper    .          School Fees                    N/Supp        5250.12     453a.a4      9445.74
05.05.a6   65    L.W.B.               Vehicles                       Equip.       14521.98    12554.56    26127.29
30.04.86   66    Robertson            May/Jun Salary                 n/Supp        6666.67     5734.39    11916.06
28.05.86   67    Stanley Int.         Invoice 27                     Cons.DE      35823.90    30970.51    65257.96
04.06.86   68    Castle Meters        Meters                         Equip.       31503.66    273,05.21    57794.21
30.06.86   69    Xent neters          Waste Trailer                  Equip.        5714.96     4853.la    10413.47
27.06.86   70    Flonic               Meters                         Equip.        2170.63     l855.51      3964.67
SUBTOTAL CARRIED FORWARD            3056041.23  2902298.10  4478535.14
o H
M H



DATE      CLAIM  PAYEE                DESCRIPTION                    EXPENSE           US$         SDR           xK
NO.                                                       TYPE
SUBTOTAL BROUGHT FORWARD                  3056041.23  2902298.10  4478535.14
10.07.86   71    Costaz               Dam Expert                    0th           10506.11     8869.51    19016.23
26.06.8G   72    Lapper               Jun/Jul Salary                 I/Supp        2802.92     2396.03      5119.60
17.07.a6   73    Stanley Int.         Invoice 28                     Cons.DE      21019.30    17634.82    37962.48
31.07.86   74    Stanley Int.         Invoice 29830                  Cons.DE      67355.53    55956.61   121202.02
28.07.86   75    Robertson            Jul/Aug Salary                 H/Supp        6666.67     5599.75    12129.06
21.0a.86   76    Lapper               Aug/Sept Salary                I/Supp        2853.04     2355.28      5247.80
15.09.86  76a    Stanley Int.         Involce 32                     Cons.DE      11620.21     9599.04    23024.26
29.08.86   77    Lapper               School Fees                    n/Supp        3124.91     2589.23      6274.48
23.09.86   78    Stanley Int.         Invoice 31                     Cons.DE      14722.80    12194.31    29143.18
23.09. 86   79    Lapper              Oct/Nov Salary                 M/Supp        2595.22     2149.52      5137.14
23.09. 86   80    Robertson           Nov/Dec Salary & Gratuity      H/Supp       25897.43    21449.81    51262.90
19.12.86   81    Lapper               Dec Salary & Gratuity          M/Supp        9971.96     8292.55    19825.83
07.10.86   82    Robertson            Sept/Oct Salary                h/Supp        6666.67      5496.24    13158.55
20.11.86   83    Stanley Int.         Invoice 33L34                  Cons.DE      67313.73    56028.47   134020.10
16.01.87   84    Robertson            Jan/Mar Salary 8 Gratuity      n/Supp       14807.69    11793.54    28014.37
20.02.87   85    Stanley Int.         Invoice 35                     Cons.DE      10597.76      8404.92    24740.72
24.02.87   86    George Kent          Flowmetera                     Equip.       23831.41    18900.32    55568.a3
13.03. 87   87    Lapper              Feb/Mar Salary                 M/Supp        3566.50      2846.29     a318.85
13.03.87   88    Lapper               School Fees                    W/Supp        3535.49      2805.81     8200.54
31.03. 87   89    Lapper              General Salary Increase        W/Supp        1924.48      1508.a2     4397.46
06.04.87   90    L.W.B.               Reimbursement                  nlSupp       22695.36    17352.05    49993.88
22.04.87   91    Lapper               Apr/May Salary                 N/Supp        3728.49      285o.67     8303.72
06.05. 87   92    Lapper              School Fees                    W/Supp        3413.97      2610.20     7584.98
08.05.87   93    George Kent          C.V.T. For Meters              Equip.        1020.a7       78o.52     2268.11
27.07.87  5.     Portals              Equipment for Section D        Equip.      125882.00    96026.49   279475.49
15.09.87   94    Robertson            General Salary Increase        W/Supp        5411.55     4200.99    12221.10
15.09.87   95    5.S.W.W.C.           Computer Equipment             Equip.       23520.40    18681.71    54346.96
17.09.87   96    L.W.B.               Reimbursement                  W/Supp       15284.17    10163.33    29566.14
19.10.87   97    Kent Meters          Installation oi Flowmeters    Equip.         8303.36     6666.93    19411.43
19.10.87   98    Kent Meters          Freight of Waste Trailer       Equip.        1362.38      1093.89     3184.97
27.10.87   99    Stanley Int.         Invoice 36                     Cons.DE      30272.12    23192.21    67445.27
TOTAL EXPENDITURE FROM I.D.A. FUNDS       3606335.73  3342787.96  5624101.59
0B-4
w )



- 39 -
AJEXIV
MALAWI
LILONCIE WATER SUPPLY ENOINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 12?2-UAI)
ON-LENDING REPAYMENT SCHEDULE
First                 Interesl       Installments  Insallments
Payment                U P.-.          Number           P.O.            Principal
01/07/es                 12.00            82.00         2.00            3930395.53
Interest
X per        Insallments
Installment        K
6.00       279067.27
Inst. go.             Balance b/i   Principal       Interest            Balance c/f
01/07/es              3930395.53       43243.64    235823.73            3887161.99
01/01/89              8887151.99       46883.15    238229.12            3841313.84
01/07/89              8841313.84       4s858.44    230478.83            3?89272.40
01/01/90              8792725.40       61603.75    227683.62            8741221.68
01/07/90              8741221.66       64698.97    224473.30           8ss8827.69
01/01/91             3866e27.69        67889.61    221197.68            3628758.08
01/07/91              8826758.08       61341.78    217725.48           3867418.29
01/01/92              36W7416.29       86022.29    214044.98           3802394.00
01/07/92              3502394.00       88923.683    210143.64           3433470.37
01/01/98              3433470.37       73069.05    206008.22            8860411.33
01/07/93              3360411.83       77442.69    201624.68            3282968.74
01/01/94              3282968.74       82089.14     198978.12           8200879.69
01/07/94              8200879.69       87014.49    192052.78            8113886.10
01/01/95              8118885.10       92286.88    188831.91            3021629.74
01/07/96              8021629.74       97789.49    181297.78            2923880.25
01/01/98              2928860.25      103836.65    175431.62            2820224.60
01/07/96              2820224.60      109853.79    169213.48            271037c.80
01/01/97              2710370.80      116446.02    162622.26            2693926.78
01/07/97              2593926.78      126481.72    156638.65            2470494.06
01/01/98              2470494.06      130887.68     148229.84           2839656.43
01/07/98              2338965.43      138887.88    140379.39            2200968.65
01/01/99              2200968.65      147009.16     132058.11           2063969.39
01/07/99              2058959.89      1556829.71    123237.66           1896129.69
01/01/00              1898129.89      186179.49    113887.78            1732950.20
01/07/00              1782950.20      176090.26    103977.01            1667869.94
01/01/01              1567859.94      186596.67      93471.60           1872264.27
01/07/01              1872264.27      196781.41      82336.86           1175632.86
01/01/02              1176532.88      208636.30      70631.97            966997.65
01/07/02               986997.66      221047.42      68019.85            745960.16
01/01/08               745950.15      284810.26      44757.01            511639.88
01/07/08               611689.86      248a68.98      80698.39            263271.01
01/01/04               283271.01      263271.01      15796.26                  .00



