OPICIALS        CREDIT NUMBER 1272 MAI
DOCUMONTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1272 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     AtJ        kAA, \i-     , 1982, between
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the cost of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A, B and D (i) of the Project will be carried out
by Lilongwe Water Board with the Borrower's assistance and as
part of such assistance the Borrower will make available to
Lilongwe Water Board part of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Lilongwe Water Board;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980 with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "LWB" means Lilongwe Water Board, a statutory body of
the Borrower established under Act Cap. 72:01, 1970 of the Laws
of Malawi as such Act may be amended from time to time;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Association and LWB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all Schedules
to the Project Agreement and all Agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and LWB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all Schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01.   The  Association  agrees  to  lend  to   the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amiunt in various
currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986 or
such later date as tYe Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without


﻿-3-
restriction of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, th!
Birrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be pay-
able semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the princip - amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1992, and ending June 15,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts C, D
(ii) and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause LWB to perform, in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable LWB to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-4-
(c) The Borrower shall relend an amount not exceeding three
million six hundred thousand dollars ($3,600,000) equivalant from
the proceeds of the Credit to LWB under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and LWB under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Asso-
ciation and which shall provide, inter alia, that the proceeds of
the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate of twelve per cent
(12%) per annum for a term of 20 years, including a 5-year grace
period.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit and, except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts C and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ an
advisc , on low-cost sanitation and management c.nsultants not
later than March 31, 1983, as well as training consultants, all
whose selection, qualifications, uxperience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and
in accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) contracts for procurement of vehicles, flow itering
equipment and miscellaneous equipment and supplies of an indivi-
dual value not exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equiva-
lent and a total value not exceeding four hundred thousand dol-
lars ($400,000) equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit may be procured in accordance with limited interna-
tional bidding;
(b) construction materials costing seventy thousand dollars
($70,000) equivalent or more to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit may be procured in accordance with local procure-
ment procedures acceptable to the Association; and


﻿-5-
(c) civil works, including site investigations and con-
struction of individual waste disposal units, may be carried out
by force account.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and dalivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project until it is completed.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, with respect to Parts
C and E of the Project, fur-ish to the Association, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and cons tru7t.on and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall, with respect to Parts C and E of
the Project: (i) maintain Lecords and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the. progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's  representatives   to  v-ait  the  facilities  and
confitruction sites included in the Project and to examine the
boods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall consult with the Ansocia-
tion concerning the findings of the Studies carried out under
Part E of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) LWB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that LWB
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment;
(c) Act Cap. 72:01, 1970 of the Laws of Malawi shall liave
been amended, suspended, abrr-3ated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversel the ability of LWB to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of LWB or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and LWB; and
(b) any event spec!      in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this AgreemenL snall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional  condition  to  the   effectiveness  of  the  Development


﻿-7-
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been executed on behalf of the Borr(.qer and LWB.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by LWB, and is legally binding upon LWB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and LWB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and LWB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date       AA       \           is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b)    of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
The Republic of Malawi


﻿-8-
Cable address:                        Telex:
FINANCE                            4407
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By
Authorized Rep iesentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Supply of:
(a) construction               70,000      100% of foreign
materials                              expenditures or
90% of local
expenditures
(b) vehicles, flow             360,000     100% of foreign
metering equip-                        expenditures or
ment and mis-                          90% of local
cellaneous                             expenditures
equipment and
supplies
(2) Consultants' and                            100% of foreign
advisor's services                         expenditures
and management staff
support:
(a) for Parts A, B           2,490i00
and D (i) of the
Project
(b) for Parts C, D (ii)       330,000
and E of the Pro-
ject
(3) Unallocated                    350,000
TOTAL 3,600,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by or in the territory of the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by nictice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which, in the
opinion of the Association, are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 11 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
!-ures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of studies to assist in the future
development of the Borrower's water supply and waste disposal
sector and is comprised of the following main components:
Part A:   A master plan for the long-range development of water
supply sewerage and sanitation in Lilongwe.
Part B:   A feasibility study, including field investigation,
detailed engineering designs and preparation of con-
tract documents for the initial stage of a Lilongwe
water supply project.
Part C:   A pilot project to demonstrate appropriate low-cost
sanitation facilities and practices.
Part D:   Provision of Management staff support for:
(i) Lilongwe Water Board; and
(ii) other entities in the water supply and waste dis-
posal sector.
Part E:   Studies to assess the needs of the Borrower's water
supply and waste disposal sector relative to organiza-
tion, manpower and training.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    /       day of
198 A.
FOR SECRETARY


