OFFICIAL      CREDIT NUMBER 1272 MAI
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
and
LILONGWE WATER BOARD
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1272 MAI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     )AJAA fA        +       , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and LILONGWE WATER BOARD (hereinafter called LWB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Republic of Malawi (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that LWB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and LWB, part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to LWB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS LWB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. LWB shall carry out Parts A, B and D (i) of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate  administrative,   financial   and   engineering
practices.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. In order to assist LWB in carrying out Parts A
and B of the Project, LWB shall employ consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance
with the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 2.03. (a) LWB undertakes to insure or make adequate
provision for the insurance of the imported goods, to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by LWB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) LWB shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project until its com-
pletion.
Section 2.04. (a) LWB shall, with respect to Parts A, B and
D (i) of the Project, furnish to the Association, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) LWB shall, with respect to Perts A, B and D (i) of the
Project: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to dis-
close their use in the Project; (ii) enab'Le the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) furnish to the 4ssociation at regular intervals
all such information as the Assoctation shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost arid, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Upon the award by LWB of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) LWB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of LWB and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.05. LWB shall:
(a) furnish to the Borrower and the Association the interim
report on the master plan under Part A of the Project for their
review and approval prior to the implementation of Part B of the
Project;
(b) furnish the draft feasibility study under Part B of the
Project to the Borrower and the Association for their comments
and approval.
Section 2.06. LWB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, LWB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) LWB shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) LWB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by LWB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LWB
Section 3.01. LWB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,


﻿-4-
and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers. To that end, LWB shall employ not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982, an Engineer/Manager and Chief Accountant whose
qualifications  and  exper.ence   shall  be  acceptable  to   the
Association.
Section 3.02. LWB shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property and, from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. LWB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. LWB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. LWB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptible to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of LWB and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspeaion
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-5-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of LWB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
LWB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand, mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                                  Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
For Lilongwe Water Board:
Lilongwe Water Board
P. 0. Box 30196
Lilongwe 3
The Republic of Malawi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of LWB may be taken or executed by the
Engineer/Manager or such other person or persons as the Engineer/
Manager shall designate in writing, and the Engineer/Manager
shall furnish to the Association sufficie.,,t evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
LILONGWE WATER BOARD
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness wher.ol I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   /7       day of
198121
C, RE              A
FOR SECRETARY


