Document of
The World Bank                            F ILE COF-Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3442-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEI
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $162.4 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA-
FOR THE
DAQING OILFIELD GAOTAIZI RESERVOIR DEVELOPMENT PROJE
January 6, 1983
This document his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 1982)
1 Yuan (Y)   =  $0.55
Y 1.8        =  $1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 British thermal unit (Btu)           =  0.252 kilocalories (kcal)
1 barrel (bbl)                         =  0.159 cubic meters (cu m)
1 kilogram of coal equivalent (kgce)  =  0.64 kilogram of oil equivalent
1 kilometer (km)                       =  0.621 miles (mi)
1 kilowatt (kw)                        =  1,000 watts (w)
1 megawatt (MW)                        =  1,000 kilowatts
1 cubic foot (CF)                      =  0.0283 cubic meter (cu m)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNOOC  -  China National Offshore Oil Corporation
DPAB   -  Daqing Petroleum Administrative Bureau
MOE    -  Ministry of Finance
MOPI   -  Ministry of Petroleum Industry
PCNl   -  Production Company No. 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
DAQING'OILFIELD GAOTAIZI RESERVOIR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The People's Republic of China
Benef'iciary:      Daqing Petroleum Administrative Bureau (DPAB)
Amount:            $162.4 million, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace at standard
variable interest rate.
Relending          Same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.  DPAB bears
Terms:           the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The proposed project would help increase production from
the Daqing oilfield and at the same time introduce
modern technological innovations in both equipment and
oilfield practices to the Chinese oil industry. The
project would do this by drilling oil and water injection
wells; installing water injection stations and other
surface utilities; providing facilities for oil treating
and transportation, and gas gathering, treating and
handling; and providing laboratories, consultants (466
man-months) and staff training to improve the efficiency
of oilfield practices. An important feature of the
project is the series of studies and surveys aimed at
improving operations and planning of future investments in
the petroleum subsector. The main quantifiable benefit of
the project is the increased production of oil and gas,
but the project also aims to achieve a significant
transfer of modern technology to China. The project
involves the operational risks and safety hazards common
to all petroleum development projects. However, the
project has been designed to improve existing safety
standards, upgrade workers' skills and provide modern
equipment to help reduce these risks. Another risk is
that geological conditions may turn out less favorable
than anticipated; however, even with smaller recoverable
reserves than estimated, the project remains economically
very attractive.                          .-
'This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                           Local     Foreign    Total
Costs:                                            ------- ($ million) ------
Well Drilling                     123.5      88.0     211.5
Production Equipment and
Services                        38.7       34.0      67.5
Surface facilities                106.9       8.0     114.9
Utilities and General Field
Equipment                       29.5         -       29.5
Field Buildings and Workers'
Housing                          13.0        -       13.0
Training Center                     5.5       6.0      11.5
Laboratories                        1.4       4.0       5.4
Equipment for two seismic survey
teams                            1.0        7.0       8.0
Computer                            2.7      14.0      16.7
Reservoir & EOR Study and
Pilot Project                     4.9       6.0      10.9
Technical Assistance (other
than EOR and training)            0.3       3.0       3.3
Seismic work and Technical
Assistance for Zhongyuan
and Other Projects                1.0       7.0       8.0
328.4     177.0     505.4
Physical Contingencies             49.3      12.5      61.8
Price Contingencies                68.2      36.5     104.7
Total Project Cost                445.9     226.0     671.9
Front-end Fee                       -         2.4       2.4
Total                       445.9      228.4     674.3
Financing                                           Local     Foreign    Total
Plan:                                             ------- ($ million) ------
Government/DPAB                   445.9      -        445.9
IBRD                               -        162.4     162.4
Export Credits/Govt./DPAB          -         66.0      66.0
Total                       445.9      228.4     674.3



- iii -
Estimated                                IBRD FY   1983    1984    1985    1986
Disbursements:                                    --------- ($ million) ------
Annual                         30.0    90.0    30.0    12.4
Cumulative                     30.0   120.0   150.0   162.4
Economic Rate
of Return:        91%
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 3949-CHA, dated December 29, 1982.



I~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE-S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE DAQING OILFIELD GAOTAIZI RESERVOIR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance the Daqing Oilfield
Gaotaizi Reservoir Development Project.  The loan, for $162.4 million, would
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with standard variable
interest. $153.9 million of the loan would be onlent to the Daqing Petroleum
Administrative Bureau (DPAB) on the same terms and conditions.  DPAB will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
E,conomic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, which updates the
r,eport, particularly on developments over the past two years, is under pre-
paration. Country data are given in Annex I.
Development Objectives and Performance
3.        China-s economic system combines an urban state economy modelled
after that of Eastern European countries, with a rural commune economy based
on the country's own traditions as well as its socialist ideology. The state
e,conomy is characterized by public ownership, centralization of economic
decisions, strictly hierarchical control, and relatively little reliance on
markets or prices. In the commune economy, land and most capital are owned
collectively by production teams of 30-40 households, which generally corres-
pond to traditional villages (or neighborhoods of larger villages). Each
tieam is part of a brigade, each brigade part of a commune: these higher level
units organize land improvement projects, run industrial and other enter-
prises, and deliver education and health services.
4.        Development efforts over the past three decades have consistently
been directed toward two main objectives: first, industrialization, and in
particular development of a heavy industrial base; second, elimination of the
worst aspects of poverty. Chinese development strategy has also been shaped
by two major constraints: first, an extreme shortage of cultivable land
in relation to population; second, a high degree of international isolation.
5.        These two constraints have sharpened the conflict between the
two objectives. The prospective returns to investment in agriculture (the
principal source of income for the poor) have been limited by land scarcity
and by the fact that the easiest advances in intensive cultivation have



- 2 -
already been made. Similarly the inevitable competition for capital and
skilled manpower between industrialization and other means of poverty
reduction was for a long period aggravated by reliance entirely on domestic
resources and technology.
6.         The Chinese response to this dilemma has been to approach the two
objectives in two different ways. Following an initial phase of institutional
change and property redistribution, poverty reduction - mainly through rural
development and the provision of basic health and education services - has
been based largely on local resources and initiative. Industrialization,
by contrast, has been based mainly on a massive infusion of centrally
mobilized resources, with little concern for cost effectiveness, and using
largely Soviet technology of the 1950s.
7.         Tension between these two approaches has contributed to sharp policy
oscillations, as has a continuing debate on the role of political criteria in
economic decisions and on the most appropriate degree of centralization. The
country is only now recovering from the latest political upheavals - the
Cultural Revolution (1966-76) - during which extreme leftist views often
predominated, and egalitarianism and ideology were emphasized at the expense
of economic efficiency.
8.         Notwithstanding these policy swings, which have engendered some
dramatic economic fluctuations, there has been substantial progress toward
the two main objectives. Industrialization has been very rapid, largely as
the result of an unusually high rate of investment, virtually all of which
has been financed by domestic savings. The share of industry in GDP (around
44%) is currently similar to the average for middle-income developing
countries. However, agriculture still accounts for 35% of GDP and over 70%
of employment - similar to the average for low-income developing countries.
Around 85% of the population still lives in rural areas.
9.         Over the whole period 1949-81 the population expanded at a little
under 2% a year. Despite the tightly constrained agricultural sector, rapid
expansion of industrial output has caused national income per person to grow
fairly fast. With adjustments for international comparability, per capita GNP
appears to have grown at an annual rate of 2.0-2.5% in 1957-77 and (because of
a spurt in recent years) 2.5-3.0% in 1957-81. Even the former rate is signi-
ficantly above the average for other low-income developing countries (1.6% in
1960-78) - though the latter is still well below the average for middle-income
developing countries (3.7%) and has not been high enough to pull China out of
the low-income group.
Strengths and Weaknesses
10.        China has clearly displayed an outstanding capacity to mobilize
domestic resources - material, human and financial - in pursuit of compara-
tively well-defined national objectives. Given the shortage of land and
initially high yields, agricultural growth since 1949 has been quite
impressive. Yields of the major crops are now among the highest in the world
though labor productivity remains low. Agricultural growth, at about 3% a



year, ha however, been eclipsed by industrial growth at an average rate of
more than 10% per year. Although a large minority of the population (around
200 million people) remains very poor, low income groups in China have been
made better off in terms of employment, nutrition, health and basic education
than theii counterparts in most other poor countries. Partly as a result, but
also through an intensive political campaign in the 1970s, the population
growth rate has been reduced in recent years to a remarkably low level (1.4%
in 1981). Life expectancy - whose dependence on many other economic and
social variables makes it probably the best single indicator of human welfare
in a country - is (at 64 yedars) outstandingly high for a country at China's
per capita income level.
11.       The outstanding weakness of China-s economy is inefficiency - in
converting inputs into outputs, in matching supply with demand, and in
investment decision making. This is partly the result of technological
baLckwardness, caused by two decades of international isolation. But it also
retflect the virtual absence of medium-term planning from 1958 until recently,
the lack of economic criteria in investment analysis, and serious weaknesses
irL the economic system - in particular, inadequate contact between producers
and users, insufficient use of markets and price incentives, inadequate
linkage between effort and rewards, and an overstaffed and cumbersome
bureaucracy.
Recent Developments
12.       Since 1977 there has been intense discussion within China concernr-
ing both the ends and the means of economic development. Though partly the
result of political change, the debate has been fuelled by some important
underlying economic considerations. Future growth will inevitably have to
depend mainly on improving the efficiency of resource use. The benefits of
technological isolation as a stimulus to improvisation have been overtaken
by its costs in terms of backwardness and bottlenecks. And the remarkable
progress made in industrialization and in meeting basic needs has not been
matched by - and has created a demand for - a commensurately rapid rise in
general living standards.
Reform and Adjustment
1:3.      In 1979, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-
mient. Economic reform is aimed at improving the overall efficiency of the
economic system. It involves: restoring and improving the quality of central
planning and policy coordination; devolving more decisionrmaking authority to
lower level units in the economic system; establishing more direct links
between incomes and performance of economic units and individuals; and placing
more reliance on market mechanisms and economic instruments, less on
administrative directives, to influence economic activity. Structural
adjustment is aimed at speeding improvements in living standards and involves
readjusting the relative shares of consumption and investment in national
income, some sectoral and subsectoral readjustments, and more emphasis on
foreign trade.



-4-
14.        Economic reforms have affected planning and management at both the
central and local government levels. A major reorganization of the central
government has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the total number of commissions, ministries and agencies under
the State Council from 98 to 52. Central-local government relations have
been affected by a decentralization of fiscal and foreign trade management,
and the legal rights and obligations of economic agents have been better
defined.
15.        Other reforms have affected the management and organization of the
state enterprise and collective sectors. Management of state enterprises
has been affected by changes and experiments aimed at improving incentives,
including the introduction of profit retention schemes and more flexible
payment and employment practices. There has also been experimentation with
different types of state enterprise organization, a greater variety of
marketing channels, some price flexibility, and greater autonomy for state
enterprises in production decisions. In rural areas, more responsibility
has been given to lower level collective units and to households, and
incomes have been more directly linked to the output of groups and house-
holds. There has been an increase in the number and types of rural markets
at which households can freely trade commodities. In urban areas the scope
for collective and individual economic activities has been expanded. Some
of these reforms - especially those in rural areas - have already improved
economic efficiency, while others will take longer to have an impact.
16.        Progress in structural adjustment has been impressive.  The share
of investment in net material product (NMP) has declined from 37% in 1978 to
30% in 1981, and the share of agriculture in NMP has increased from 36% in
1978 to 40% in 1981. Emphasis on light industry, which accounted for 43% of
industrial output value in 1978, was needed to provide more consumer goods
to match higher incomes. The shift in emphasis from heavy to light
industry, which began in 1979 and has become even more dramatic in the past
two years, has led to a sharp increase in this proportion - reaching over
51% in 1981. In fact, in 1981, heavy industry output actually fell by 4.7%
while light industry output grew by 14.1%.
Stabilization Program
17.        The implementation of adjustment and reform policies in recent
years was accompanied by some macroeconomic instability in 1979 and 1980:
there were large budget deficits, moderate inflation, rapid growth in the
money supply, and a widening of the current account deficit from $0.7 billion
in 1978 to $2.4 billion in 1980. Except for the budget deficit (5.1% of NIP
in 1979 and 3.5% in 1980), the symptoms of instability were quite mild by
international standards. They were, however, taken very seriously in a
country accustomed to insignificant inflation rates during the last two
decades. Accordingly, in 1981, the Government introduced a stabilization
program, which included a moderation of currency and credit expansion,
restoration of budgetary balance and sharp cuts in investment.



-5-
18.       Monetary and Fiscal Policy.  Restoration of price stability, the
Government's major concern, has been largely achieved: retail prices
iincreased by only 2.4% in 1981 compared with 6.0% in 1980. In rural areas
shortages of consumer goods and repressed inflation remain, but in urban
areas measures to restrict increases in nominal incomes in 1981 improved the
demand-supply situation. Meanwhile the major changes in relative prices
between urban and rural areas and within sectors continued through 1981.
Some price flexibility has also been introduced: above-plan output can be
sold at prices negotiated directly between buyers and sellers, and there is
considerable downward price flexibility for goods in excess supply.
19.       Strict price controls were one element of the stabilization pro-
gram but fiscal policy has also played an important role.  The Government
reduced the budget deficit significantly in both 1980 and 1981, primarily
through major cuts in capital construction: after rising by over 50% in
1978 and nearly 14% in 1979, budget expenditures on capital construction
were reduced by 19% in 1980 and 22% in 1981. Moreover, the mode of deficit
financing in 1981 was less inflationary than in previous years. Because of
the Government's concern about open inflation, many of the increases in
agricultural procurement prices have not been passed on to urban consumers
but instead were financed by rapidly increasing subsidies (Y 8 billion in
1978 and Y 36 billion in 1981). Total domestic revenues have continued to
increase but not as rapidly as NMP, due in part to the introduction of
profit retention schemes and the shift in the composition of industrial
Dutput from heavy to light industry. On the other hand, extrabudgetary
funds of enterprises and administrative organizations have grown rapidly and
were about half as large as budgetary revenues in 1981.
20.       Innovations like credit financing of investment and profit reten-
tion schemes mean that monetary policy potentially has a more important role
to play in China. After rapid increases in 1979 and 1980, the growth rate
of the money supply was reduced in 1981 as a result of strict control over
currency expansion. The velocity of circulation of money fell in 1979-81,
but this was to be expected during a time of major institutional and struc-
tural changes, including the increased monetization of rural economic acti-
vities and the proliferation of collective and individual commercial and
service undertakings. Bank branches have been given more autonomy to
mobilize and allocate resources, and efforts have been made to influence
economic decision making at the micro level by increasing and rationalizing
interest rates. The increase in interest rates is expected to attract
savings and induce enterprises to economize on fixed investment and working
capital. However, the allocation of investment resources in China continues
to be made primarily administratively, rather than by interest rates.
21.       Balance of Payments.  The Government's current policy includes
continued emphasis on foreign trade and on making more use of imported
technology. The performance of merchandise exports has continued to be very
impressive, with the real growth rate averaging about 20% p.a. during 1978-81,
due mainly to rapid growth in manufactured exports. However, merchandise
imports, which also grew rapidly in 1979 and 1980, fell by 4.5% in value and
8.6% in volume in 1981 due to the stabilization program, especially the sharp
cutback in the investment program. As a result, the $2.4 billion deficit of
1980 was converted into a $2.0 billion current account surplus in 1981.



- 6 -
22.       The strong export performance is due in part to institutional
and policy changes. In January 1981, an internal settlement rate of
Y 2.8 per US dollar (the official exchange rate was Y 1.6 per US dollar) was
introduced for all trade. The central government has actively encouraged
decentralization of foreign trade decision making and has introduced
material incentives, primarily in the form of foreign exchange retention
schemes. It appears, however, that some provinces and organizations may
have striven to increase exports even if this meant undercutting exports of
other provinces or units or exacerbating domestic supply shortages; greater
access to foreign exchange has also stimulated a faster growth of imports
than would have been permitted under a more centralized system. In the
absence of price and other reforms, the Government has felt obliged to deal
with these problems by introducing export quotas for 78 commodities, levying
export duties on other commodities, restricting some consumer goods imports,
and raising import tariffs on others.
23.       The, Government's approach to foreign borrowing has remained very
cautious. In 1980 and 1981 it cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and
in 1981 took advantage of the unexpectedly strong current account position
to repay commercial bank and other loans. In 1981, China's debt service
ratio was 7.8%. Gross international reserves at the end of 1981 were
sufficient to cover about five months of 1981 imports of goods and services.
24.       Investment.  In 1978, China's rate of investment was much higher
than the average for other low-income or middle-income countries; moreover,
the overall efficiency of investment was low and getting worse due to
shortages of necessary materials and supplies, major transport constraints,
and inappropriate and inefficient procedures for selecting and implementing
investment projects. In these circumstances, the Government decided to cut
back on the investment rate while introducing measures to improve investment
efficiency and thereby protect future growth potential. The reduction in
the investment rate has been achieved in spite of difficulties in cutting
many investment components: the share of inventory accumulation in total
investment has remained high; investment financed from retained earnings or
local resources has grown sharply as a proportion of the total; and there
has been rapid growth of nonproductive, particularly housing, investment.
As a result, most of the cutbacks have had to be in large centrally financed
projects, which will probably have an adverse effect on future growth.
Growth and Income Developments
25.       The overall rate of economic growth in recent years has been
impressive, averaging 5.6% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 - a much higher rate
than in the first half of the 1970s. In 1981, however, the rate dropped to
3.0% as a result of the stabilization program.
26.       The combination of structural adjustment, economic growth and a low
population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1981) has led to rapid
increases in the general standard of living in recent years. In urban
areas, general wage increases and higher bonuses have more than offset the



- 7 -
increase in the cost of living index, and real per capita incomes increased
by 4.9% p.a. between 1978 and 1981. The number of urban unemployed has been
reduced dramatically and, with government encouragement, urban
self-employment has grown rapidly.
27.        Even more impressive, however, has been the increase in rural
incomes. Information from several sources suggests that at current prices,
per capita rural incomes increased by 16-18% p.a. between 1978 and 1981; and
when account is taken of price changes, the increase in real per capita
incomes has been 10-12% p.a. About 60% of this dramatic increase is due to
increased rural production and the remainder to shifts in the terms of trade
in favor of rural producers. While areas and households that were already
relatively well off may have benefited the most, many poor areas and
households have also enjoyed substantial income improvements.
Sectoral Strategies
28.        The rapid development of agriculture has been essential because
800 million people depend on agriculture for their livelihood; moreover,
rising incomes elsewhere in the economy and the requirements of light indus-
try have placed new demands on agriculture. Between 1978 and 1981, gross
agricultural output at constant prices increased by 5.7% p.a.; despite poor
weather in 1980 the growth rate was 2.7%, and in 1981 when China was again
affected by severe droughts and floods, the growth rate rose to 5.7%. There
has been a substantial diversification of the sector, with production of
cash crops expanding rapidly and large increases in livestock and sideline
production. Grain production has also increased since 1978 despite a
decline in the grain area, but domestic grain requirements have increased
more rapidly due to higher incomes and fast-growing requirements for live-
sitock feed. As a result, foodgrain imports have been expanding steadily.
29.        The strong performance of agriculture in recent years is largely
due to the combination of improved terms of trade for agriculture and other
policy interventions and institutional changes that encourage local and
institutional specialization according to comparative advantage. Of parti-
cular importance have been the changes in the organization and management of
rural collectives (para. 15).
30.        Adjustment policy in industry has included increased emphasis on
light and consumer goods industry rather than heavy industry (para. 16);
stress on modernization of existing enterprises, particularly through
importation of new technology; and energy conservation. Promotion of
manufactured exports has also been necessary to pay for imported technology.
These exports have been growing rapidly but still account for only 4% of
gross industrial output, and imported equipment as a share of capital
construction in industry has risen from 3% in 1978 to 26% in 1981.
31.        Reforms in industry have focussed the attention of organizations
and individuals on profits and efficiency (para. 15). Innovations have
included profit retention schemes, piece rate wages, and bonuses, which
for workers in state enterprises now average more than one month's pay. New



- 8 -
types of industrial organization include foreign partnerships, joint
ventures between urban state industrial enterprises and rural communes, and
industrial corporations with authority over a group of enterprises producing
similar output. Charges on the fixed assets and working capital of state
enterprises are intended to encourage them to use capital more productively.
However, these reform measures have not yet been backed by price reform and
enterprises still do not bear full responsibility for losses.
32.       Since 1979 when energy conservation became a major policy issue,
energy consumption has stagnated or fallen while NMP has grown by 10%. As a
result, China has remained a net exporter of energy despite declines in
energy production in 1980 and 1981. The fall in energy use per unit of
output has been due in part to the changing structure of industry: heavy
industry consumes about four times as much energy per unit of output as
light industry, and heavy industry output grew very slowly in 1980 and
declined in 1981. The Government has been stressing the importance of
improved efficiency and energy savings within sectors and has been pursuing
energy conservation through rationing and other administrative measures.
33.       Market-oriented reforms and greater regional specialization call
for expanded and more efficient domestic transportation and commercial
systems. In the commercial sector, the real value of sales has risen
rapidly and the role of markets in the allocation of resources has expanded.
Collective and individual commercial activities have proliferated, filling
gaps left by, and forcing improvements in, the state commercial system.
Growth in the volume of freight transport slowed greatly in 1980, and there
was virtual stagnation in 1981, indicating that bottlenecks in this sector
remain severe.
Development Issues and Prospects
34.       Although changes in the system of economic management as well as
in the structure of the economy will undoubtedly continue, a difficult
period of transition lies ahead. After spending three decades pursuing a
particular set of goals with particular instruments, the country will
inevitably find it hard to switch to a path that is not only new for China,
but also one that has been successfully followed by few other countries.
Reform of the economic system will be especially difficult. The measures
described above, though diverse in form, have a unity of purpose, namely to
make the economy more efficient in the sense of both cutting costs and
matching supply more closely with demand. But the attempt to reform parts
of the economic system without a coherent overall program has also had some
adverse consequences. Bureaucratic reform is under way but will likely be a
lengthy and difficult process.
35.       Constraints.  China's efforts to improve its people's living
standards will, in the coming decade, be subject to a tight set of
interlocking constraints. Some of these are of long standing; they reflect
the country's fundamental resource constraints, especially the shortage of
agricultural land and the difficulty of increasing yields further. Others



- 9 -
are of more recent origin, however, and largely reflect the price that the
country must still pay for more than a decade of waste and economic
mismanagement starting in the mid-1960s.  They include shortages of trained
manpower, energy, and financial resources for new investment.
36.        The food problem facing China in the 1980s is likely to be similar
to that in the past, but it may be exacerbated by growing demand for feed-
grain to support increased meat production. Grain output will continue to
be constrained because of the extreme shortage of new cultivable land and
the limited opportunities that remain for increasing yields. Although s':b-
stantial gains will probably be possible in the short and medium term
through improved policies and management, the foodgrain balance will remain
precarious and substantial food imports will have to be maintained. Main-
taining a low population growth rate is also crucial.
37.        In both rural and urban areas, the country's effort to modernize
the economy will be seriously constrained by the lack of trained manpower.
Despite considerable progress in basic education, technical and higher
education has been neglected and was severely disrupted during the Cultural
Revolution. Current enrollment in both universities and technical and voca-
tional schools is one quarter of the average for other developing countries.
Many teachers in advanced education are underqualified, curricula are
outdated, and scientific equipment is scarce.
38.       The outlook for energy production has recently deteriorated.  Oil
output peaked in 1979 at 106 million tons, dropped to 101 million tons in
19C1 and is likely at best to remain at about 95-100 million tons a year
during the next few years.  Coal output (which contributes about 70% of
total commercial energy) was 620 million tons in both 1980 and 1981. It is
unlikely to exceed 700 million tons in 1985 and about 850 million tons in
1990, even if high priority is given to this subsector. Growth of total
primary energy production in the 198Os will thus not exceed 3% per year less
thaLn one quarter of the 19 52-80 growth rate.
39.        The prospects for economic growth in the 1980s will thus depend
critically on reducing energy use per unit of output. In particular, the
availability of oil for use as an industrial raw material will fundamentally
inf luence growth prospects. The potential for energy savings is very large,
as China is now among the world's most inefficient users of energy. In
addition to substantial new investment, however, conservation will require
fundamental reform of energy allocation procedures, incentives for reduced
consumption and changes in relative prices, and indeed, a total change of
thinking at the enterprise level on the way energy is used - all of which
will be difficult and slow to implement.
40.        The energy sector is already absorbing over 40% of industrial
investment and very large capital outlays would be required in the next
several years to accelerate the growth of energy output in the second half
of the 1980s. Competing claims for investments in other sectors are consid-
erable, especially those for badly needed urban housing and for relieving
transport bottlenecks. The attempt to modernize the huge industrial sector



- 10 -
built upon outdated technology will also require enormous investment out-
lays. Thus, notwithstanding the Government's effort to improve the alloca-
tion and use of its financial resources, a high level of investment will
need to be maintained in the 1980s to build a sound foundation for sustained
growth over the longer term. However, investments in key sectors like
energy and transport are presently caught between the Government's desire to
reduce the saving rate (in order to accelerate the growth of consumption)
and its loss of control over parts of the investment program as a result of
decentralization and reform.
41.       The Government's attempt to foster a much more open economy than
in the past may be impeded by a shortage of foreign exchange. Domestic
bottlenecks in the supply of certain agricultural and industrial materials,
together with the need to purchase foreign technology (in the form of
software as well as hardware), will make continued expansion of imports
essential for growth and modernization. The rate of growth of export
earnings depends critically on two uncertain parameters, namely the rate at
which nontraditional manufactured exports can be increased and the degree of
success in energy conservation. Even if energy conservation is fairly
successful (growth in energy use at, say, three fourths of the GDP growth
rate), oil exports will almost certainly disappear by the second half of the
1980s, and imports of energy may well be required, at least until new
domestic production capacity is established. If the external economic
environment improves, manufactured exports could grow, from a relatively
small base, by 9-10% a year in constant prices during the decade.
Nonetheless, declining energy exports will cause total foreign exchange
earnings to grow by no more than about 2% a year in the first half of the
1980s and 8% a year in the second half. Thus the strong balance of payments
situation in 1981, brought about mainly by restrictive measures (cutbacks in
investment), masks serious medium-term constraints.
42.       China's access to concessionary capital is limited:  apart from
what it might obtain from the Bank Group, concessionary capital is only
likely to come from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and will likely
average only $500-600 million a year during the 1980s. Quantitative projec-
tions show that if China is to maintain reasonable growth and modernization
and keep its debt service payments at a manageable level, then it needs to
obtain the necessary foreign capital at an average interest rate substan-
tially below the market rate. China also has a strong claim to concession-
ary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries in the world.
43.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will
be a difficult decade, and one whose problems will be compounded by errors
made in the 1960s and early 1970s. But looking further ahead, China's econ-
omic prospects appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants to the labor
force will have received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower
deficit will have been reduced. Further progress will have been made in
tapping China's large energy potential, and in using it more efficiently.



- 11 -
Continuation of recent manufactured export trends should generate sufficient
foreign exchange for the Government to have more confidence in using foreign
capital and be less concerned about its terms. If the country's immense
wealth of human talent, effort and discipline can be combined with policies
that incr,.ase the efficiency of resource use, China will be able, within a
generation or so, to achieve a substantial increase in the living standards
of its people. Whether this potential can be realized, however, will depend
crucially on the success of the Government's program of reform and
adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
44.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now underway, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its consid-
erable development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover, working
with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its position in
the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the Bank should
assist China in removing the major constraints on development - the shortages
of energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern technology.
Even more important, the Bank can help the authorities to use these and
ot'her inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment
control, as well as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the
Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's remaining
poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the basic
needs of most of its people, these efforts should concentrate on increasing
incomes in the poorest rural areas.
45.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, five projects involving lending of $530 million have been approved.
TwID have been in education (University Development and Agricultural
Education and Research), one in agriculture (North China Plain Agriculture),
one in transport (Three Ports), and one in industrial development financing
(Industrial Credit). Annex II contains a summary statement on loans and
credits approved by September 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of
the projects.
Economic and Sector Work
46.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to
provide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy. This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum
analyzing developments over the past two years is now under preparation. In



- 12 -
addition, the Bank has initiated studies in several areas important for our
understanding of the Chinese system, including rural finance and urban
planning and management in Shanghai.
47.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally
to introduce new methods of economic management and planning. As prepara-
tion for the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual has been
developed with Bank assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China
Investment Bank (CIB). The Bank is now helping to develop a similar manual
for the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC).  A program of economic research
on China's development problems, aimed at the application of advanced
analytical techniques, has begun in collaboration with Chinese economic
research institutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and the study
of structural change.
48.       Sector studies will help inter alia to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong province under the North China Plain
Agriculture Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and
agricultural manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and
Research Project. A health sector review is reporting on rural health care
delivery systems and health manpower development.
Near-Term Lending
49.       Work has begun on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on training. Several are in the key
sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the Bank's efforts will help
to increase the supply of fuel and power. Petroleum projects would be
onshore and emphasize training, field management and studies. The proposed
project at Daqing, the country's largest and most productive oilfield, would
help develop new reserves and introduce enhanced recovery techniques. A
second petroleum project, at the Zhongyuan oilfield, would include both
development and exploration. Other operations are proposed to support
hydropower generation in southeast China and the development and management of
large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. Support of transportation
began through the modernization of container and coal handling facilities at
China's three major ports. The Bank plans to finance further projects in
ports and in railways where additional capacity is needed to transport coal
from mines in Shanxi to the east coast.
50.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education, notably the TV
university, a pilot program of basic colleges, and another university
development project. Support of agriculture will also continue through
projects to develop presently uncultivated land in Heilongjiang province for



- 13 -
grain production, develop rubber cultivation in Guangdong province, and
provide rural credit in two provinces with emphasis on improved project
appraisal and institution-building. Besides the Industrial Credit Project,
it is expected that industry would be supported through further loans to the
China Investment Bank for light industrial firms for modernization and
export projects. The Bank may also become involved in technical assistance
and investment in support of energy conservation in industry. In health, a
project would help improve rural health care services and medical education.
PART III - THE OIL AND GAS SUBSECTOR /1
Introduction
51.       China is the world's fourth largest producer of commercial energy,
and its achievements in developing energy resources over the last three
decades have been impressive. Production of coal has increased from some
60 million tons in 1952 to 620 million tons in 1981. During the same period,
power generating capacity increased from about 2,000 MW to 67,000 MW. In
1981, about 310 billion kWh of power was generated, of which about 80% was
thermal and 20% hydro. Oil production increased from about 0.1 million tons
in 1950 to 106 million tons by 1979; about 20% of oil output is currently
exported, generating roughly $4.75 billion, or one quarter of China's total
foreign exchange earnings. This rapid development has made China the
world's third largest consumer of commercial energy, behind the USA and the
Soviet Union, but ahead of Japan. However, consumption per capita is only
about 650 kg of coal equivalent (kgce) p.a., which is slightly above the
average for developing countries (620 kgce).
52.       These positive developments notwithstanding, the future prospects
remain uncertain. While China might be able to remain self-sufficient in
energy throughout the 1980s, it probably cannot sustain the economic growth
rate achieved over the last two decades. The major oilfields, which
together account for about 90% of China's oil production, have peaked and
entered a declining phase; no new discoveries have been made of a magnitude
to offset this decline. In 1981, oil production fell to 101 million tons.
Rapid expansion of the coal industry faces intractable problems in terms of
investment, location and transportation. The remoteness of potentially
major hydro sites from centers of consumption and the long gestation period
of hydro projects preclude any sizable increase in hydropower's share of
energy production in the 1980s.
/1 For a broader discussion of the energy sector, see Annex E of Bank
Report No. 3391-CHA, entitled "China: Socialist Economic Development."



- 14 -
Resource Endowment
53.       China is well endowed with primary energy and has abundant
resources in terms of coal, hydrocarbons, oil shale and hydropower poten-
tial. Coal and lignite reserves are concentrated largely in the north and
northeast, which represent about 70% of the total recoverable reserves in
China (600 billion tons). While future plans call for increasing coal
production significantly by such measures as opening new mines and increased
mechanization, transport (essentially railroad capacity) appears to be the
single most important constraint to achieving this objective. Reserves of
oil shale in China are estimated unofficially at 400 billion tons. Current
production of shale oil from the Liaoning and Guangdong mines is about
300,000 tons p.a. China's hydropower potential, among the largest in the
world, is estimated at 1,900 billion kWh per year (present hydrogeneration
is about 60 billion kWh). While geothermal phenomena are abundant in the
mountainous southwestern part of the country, geothermal energy has not been
developed to a significant extent in China and its role is likely to remain
limited. As in other developing economies, non-commercial fuels such as
crop residue and animal waste are used extensively, especially in rural
areas. China pioneered and is now the leading producer of biogas.
54.       Oil and Gas.  Unofficial estimates of proven oil reserves range from
1.8 to 2.5 billion tons, while possible and probable reserves are currently
estimated at 5-10 billion tons onshore and 4-8 billion tons offshore.
Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas are currently estimated at 80 bil-
lion cu m, about 90% of which is located in Sichuan Province. In addition,
recoverable reserves of associated gas are estimated at about 50 billion cu m.
Total recoverable gas reserves (130 billion cu m) are equivalent to over
110 million tons of oil. However, gas reserves may not have been adequately
explored yet, and the ultimate recoverable reserves could be very much higher.
55.       Over the last two decades, China has made considerable progress in
exploiting these reserves. Although oil was discovered in China in 1897,
annual oil production before 1950 was no more than 120,000 tons, of which
about 50,000 tons was from oil shale. During the 1950s, exploration in
northwestern China resulted in some small discoveries. After 1957, explora-
tion began in northeastern and northern China and led to the discovery, in
1959, of China's largest oilfield in Daqing. This was followed by discoveries
in Shengli and Dagang in 1964. In 1965, petroleum production reached
11.3 million tons, making China self-sufficient in oil. During the 1960s, the
increase in oil production was relatively moderate; the major spurt came in
the 1970s, with production increasing from 30 million tons in 1970 to 106 mil-
lion tons in 1979. This increase came largely through development of the
Daqing oilfield and, to a lesser extent, of the Shengli and Renqiu oilfields.
The average annual investment in the oil and gas subsector over the last five
years has been about Y 2.8 billion (representing about 7% of China's total
annual capital construction investment).



- 15 -
Exploration Policy
56.       Onshore Areas.  Until the late 1970s, China was remarkably
successful in implementing a policy of total self-reliance. However, the
rat:e of discovery has recently been declining and, faced with the prospect
of falling oil production, China has modified its exploration policy. It
now proposes to undertake detailed seismic surveys around existing oilfields
and to shift the focus of exploration from the north and northeast to the
northwest, where an estimated 50% of China's onshore recoverable reserves
are located. However, the basins in northwestern China are remote and have
extremely hostile weather and difficult drilling conditions; developing this
area would require a quantum jump both in investment and in technology.
China has secured some assistance from foreign companies in undertaking
seiLsmic surveys and exploratory drilling in particularly difficult areas and
is considering inviting foreign companies to participate further in
exploration and production, especially in these difficult areas.
57..      Offshore Areas.  China's seismic work and development of offshore
structures in the Bohai area prior to 1979 made the limitations of its
offshore technology apparent. Thereafter, in a major policy departure,
China sought the active cooperation of foreign oil companies in these areas.
Forty-eight foreign oil companies, from 12 countries, were invited to
undertake geophysical and seismic work in over 420,000 sq km of China's
offshore sedimentary basins. On the basis of these surveys, six prospective
oil-bearing basins have been identified.
58.       In early 1982, the Government promulgated regulations that would
enable foreign oil companies to participate in exploring China's offshore
basins. Further, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) was
created to invite and evaluate bids and enter into offshore petroleum
agreements with foreign oil companies. The new regulations provide for
petroleum contracts that make foreign oil companies bear the cost of all
exploration investment and the accompanying risks. Once a commercial oil
and/or gas field is discovered, both the foreign contractor and CNOOC will
invest jointly in its development. Initially the foreign contractor will be
responsible for developing and operating the field, but CNOOC may take over
as the field's operator whenever it deems fit. The rights of the foreign
contracting party to recover its investment and expenses and to receive
remuneration for the petroleum produced would be specified in the contract.
The first round of bidding, for an area of about 150,000 sq km, has already
taken place, and considerable interest was evinced by foreign oil companies.
Current and Anticipated Level of Oil Production
59.       Over the past year, oil output has fallen by about 3% and, more
important, production from the major oilfields has peaked. With no major
discovery to offset this fall, China will need to rely increasingly on



- 16 -
infill drilling, enhanced oil recovery methods, exploring and developing
peripheral reservoirs, and rapidly developing small discoveries. The
Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI) has initiated such actions, and
efforts are under way to expand several oil fields. These actions may allow
China to temporarily stem the decline and maintain annual oil output
in the 95-100 million ton range up to 1985. However, beyond that, oil
output from the major fields would be declining rapidly. Furthermore, while
prospects for offshore discoveries are very good, oil from the offshore
areas is unlikely to augment China's oil production significantly before
1990. Similarly, even if major discoveries are made in the northwest,
intractable logistics make field development and oil transportation an
extremely complex and time-consuming proposition. Thus, between 1985 and
1990, oil production may fall to 90 million tons p.a. Prospects beyond 1990
depend on the success of current initiatives in developing the northwestern
region and offshore structures.
Consumption Pattern
60.       Rising oil production has increased the role of hydrocarbons in the
Chinese economy (replacing coal, the traditional source of commercial energy),
with the relative share of oil and natural gas increasing from about 2% in
1965 to over 20% in 1981. The major consumers of oil are the industry and
commerce sectors (43%), followed by transport (25%) and power (20%). An
unusual and wasteful feature of the consumption pattern is the direct use of
8 million tons of crude as fuel oil. This is partly attributable to the
nonavailability of refining facilities close to the producing field,
transportation constraints and the poor quality of crude.
61.        Over the last 16 years, consumption of oil has been growing at an
annual rate of about 13%. However, faced with falling oil and gas production,
efforts are being made to decelerate this growth (consumption in 1981 was
reported to be about 82 million tons against the peak of 90 million tons in
1978). However, a further reduction of consumption may not be possible
without adversely affecting the countrys rate of economic growth. Substi-
tution of coal for oil would require substantial investment in terms of
transportation and extensive retrofitting. Similarly, once a production mode
has been determined, the energy efficiency factor is locked in and major
improvement in energy use cannot be secured without discarding the investment.
Prices
62.        A comparison between petroleum product prices in China and
international prices (Annex IV) reveals that whereas products like motor
gasoline, kerosene and diesel are priced near the international level, the
average price of the reconstituted barrel works out at Y 39 ($22), which is
below the international price ($28). This is largely because the domestic
price of fuel oil is only about 30% of the international price. Domestic



- 17 -
prices of petroleum products have remained unchanged for 20 years. The
State Prices Bureau is considering increasing the price of crude oil sold to
refineries, from Y 100 per ton (at Daqing) to Y 175 per ton, but this
increase may not be reflected in prices to end-users. The refineries sell
petroleum products to the Ministry of Commerce, which is responsible for
marketing the products. There is a price differential at every point, with
the oilfields, the refineries and the Ministry of Commerce acting as profit
centers for the State. The present pricing structure offers no financial
incentive for oil-coal substitution, since fuel oil, in terms of calorific
value, is cheaper than coal. However, the Government has had some succtsj
in reducing energy consumption and encouraging substitution of fuels th ough
energy targets for individual enterprises and other administrative means.
Adlministrative measures probably still have more influence than prices on
energy use and production in the present Chinese system, but as decision
maLking is decentralized, it will become increasingly important to ensure
that price incentives reinforce rather than contradict administrative
regulations. However, the Government believes that a solution to the
underpricing of some important energy products can only be achieved over an
extended period.
Demand and Supply of Natural Gas
63.       Gas production declined by about 13% between 1980 and 1981, when
it amounted to 12.5 billion cu m, composed of about equal amounts of asso-
c:Lated and non-associated gas. Nonr-associated gas fields in Sichuan
Province, which is the major producing area and has been active for over 100
years, have now entered a declining phase. Similarly, with the decline of
oLl production in the major oilfields, production of associated gas would
aLso decline. A fall in gas production would inevitably stimulate demand
for liquid hydrocarbons, which makes it necessary to explore and develop
non-associated gas prospects. About 30% of natural gas is used for fertil-
izers, about 10% for petrochemicals and synthetic fibers, and 60% as fuel,
of which about 12% is used for thermal power plants.
Institutions
64.       The Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI) generally oversees all
activities in the oil and natural gas subsector, including policy making
and overall planning, exploration, production, distribution, transportation,
research/design and training. Created as a bureau in the Ministry of Fuel
Industry in 1949, it became a full ministry in 1955 and oversaw the opening
of the Daqing oilfield in 1959 as well as subsequent discoveries. The
petroleum industry has been in a state of continuous change since the 1970s;
this has blurred the lines of responsibility and created considerable
overlap of function in exploration and refining between MOPI, the Ministry
of Geology and the Ministry of Chemical Industry. Some of these problems
may be resolved as the Government s program for reorganization is implemented.



- 18 -
65.       The Daging Petroleum Administrative Bureau (DPAB) is responsible
for development of the Daqing oilfield. DPAB's president is assisted by a
senior vice-president (operations) and six vice-presidents in charge of
petrochemicals, capital construction, drilling and exploration, oil produc-
tion, administration, and scientific research. The president of DPAB is
also the mayor of Daqing, and in that capacity he heads the civil adminis-
tration and oversees all other socioeconomic activities (including health,
housing, agriculture and education).  DPAB used to be answerable to both the
provincial government and MOPI, but as of 1980, MOPI is almost fully
responsible for overseeing the performance of DPAB.
66.       DPAB-s functions are essentially managerial, with specialized
companies responsible for various oilfield activities such as exploration,
drilling, surface construction, production, maintenance, and design and
research. The companies follow the standard Chinese organizational pattern,
namely, they are divided into brigades and the brigades in turn into teams.
The brigade leader and his staff (usually 10-15 specialists) are professio-
nals with managerial responsibilities. A team typically consists of 50-100
skilled workers, one of whom is designated the team leader.
67.       Production and net income targets are set annually by MOPI.  These
targets in turn form the basis for DPAB-s budgets for operation, working
capital and investment on a one-year basis. DPAB enjoys considerable
operational autonomy, but far less financial autonomy.
68.       DPAB and its predecessor, the Songliao Directorate, have been so
successful in developing Daqing that it has long been considered the techno-
logical capital of China and a model of industrial growth. Without external
assistance and despite outdated technolgy, Daqing was developed into one of
the largest oilfields in the world and a major industrial complex. Manage-
ment at all levels is dedicated, competent, innovative and remarkably able
in pursuing and achieving assigned tasks. The major deficiencies are a
result of the oilfield's development in technological isolation, with methods
adopted and decisions taken on the basis of extremely limited information.
Sector Issues and the Role of the Bank
69.       From available evidence it is clear that China at least in the
medium term faces the prospect of declining oil production. Sector strategy
over the longer term would require China taking steps to increase its
exploratory efforts, especially in the offshore and the northwest onshore
areas, undertaking fuller development of coal and hydro potential and
improving the efficiency of energy use and replacing oil by coal in indus-
try. Critical as these measures are, they do not represent a medium-term
option. Coal mines would have to be modernized and the transportation
constraint resolved; while prospects of offshore oil discoveries are rated
as high, oil in significant amounts would be secured only after an extensive
period of exploration and development; similarly all available projects for
developing hydro potential have a long lead time. In fact investment in
these areas is unlikely to yield significant results during the 1980s.



- 19 -
70.       China is now facing problems typical to all oil producers, that is,
being required to undertake exploration and production under increasingly dif-
ficult and complex conditions. Its capabilities in this regard are limited.
Because of an extended period of technological isolation during the develop-
ment of iza oil industry, China has not been successful in discovering petro-
leum in complex geological environments nor has it developed the technological
capability to increase the recovery of oil from existing fields. Much of the
equipment used in the fields such as Daqing is already obsolescent; field
practices such as drilling, cementing, casing and formation logging are out-
dated and require an in-depth evaluation. China needs to upgrade the quality
of its seismic work, data processing, reservoir engineering, and techniques
relating to enhanced oil recovery. In addition it needs to import modern oil-
field equipment and technology related thereto and train oilfield staff in
these new methods. The Government is seeking the assistance of foreign oil
companies in exploring and developing its offshore areas. This, in addition
to developing its offshore structures, would, over a period of time, result in
the transfer of offshore technology relating to seismic work, exploration,
field development, etc. In the onshore area, especially in regard to the
discovered and developed oilfields, the Government expects the Bank to act as
a conduit for similar transfer of technology.
71.       Initially Bank lending in the petroleum sector will have three basic
objectives: first, to develop known hydrocarbon bearing structures in order
to partially offset the anticipated decline in oil production; second, to
inLtroduce modern technology to the Chinese oil industry; and third, to train
and upgrade the skills of China's oil industry personnel in current oilfield
practices. The proposed project would be the first Bank lending operation in
thle petroleum sector and aims at providing critical inputs in these areas.
BaLnk involvement in the medium term would be aimed at developing rapidly the
small oilfields which have already been discovered, undertaking seismic
surveys in the vicinity of existing oilfields, and identifying and initiating
enhanced oil recovery programs. Bank's role in the longer term would be
determined taking account of the role of other sources of finance and
expertise in Chinese conditions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
72.       The project was identified in September 1981 and appraised in
February/March 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 29 to
December 6, 1982. The Government of China was represented by Mr. Wu
Shengyuan, Chief of World Bank Division II, Ministry of Finance and DPAB by
Mr. Ren Kebang, Deputy Chief, General Office, DPAB. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 3949-CHA, dated December 29, 1982) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Supplementary data are provided in Annex III.
Project Area
7:3.      Daqing oilfield is located in the Songliao sedimentary basin,
located mainly in Heilongjiang Province in northeastern China. Daqing's
current production of about 51 million tons of crude p.a. accounts for
one half of China's total hydrocarbon production. Since its discovery, this
o:Llfield has produced more than 530 million tons of oil. The original
oil-in-place in the Daqing reservoirs has been estimated at 3,000 million



- 20 -
tons, of which 30% or about 900 million tons is likely to be recoverable
with China's current field production techniques. Higher recovery rate
may be achieved if the reservoir responds favourably to one of the many
enhanced oil recovery methods. There are seven high culminations, or
oilfields in Daqing, with three distinct and independent types of reservoirs
(the deepest of which is known as the Gaotaizi or G reservoir), each
consisting of a series of interbedding layers of sand and mudstones. While
the G reservoir has been exploited in most of Daqing's fields, it has yet to
be developed in the Sa-ertu oilfield.
Project Objectives
74.       The project has three main objectives.  The first is to develop
the G reservoir in the Sa ertu oilfield. Production from the G reservoir is
expected to reach a peak of 3.8 million tons of crude per annum and augment
the recoverable reserves of Daqing oilfield by at least 32 million tons of
oil, thereby partially offsetting the overall production decline at Daqing.
The second objective is to use this loan as a vehicle for introducing modern
technology into the Chinese petroleum industry, largely through the import
of equipment and establishment of new, operationally oriented research labor-
atories. The third objective is to upgrade the skills of oil industry per-
sonnel and to improve oilfield practices. Training would be provided
formally at newly established training centers, through overseas study, and
on-the-job training under service contracts concluded with the purchase
of sophisticated equipment. Furthermore, the project studies would contri-
bute to meeting all three objectives, by leading to increased recovery rates
and improved safety and field practices, as well as covering pre-investment
work for future petroleum projects, including preparation of the Zhongyuan
Wenliu Petroleum Project.
Project Description
75.       The proposed project would comprise the following components.
(a) Wells: drilling and completing about 615 oil wells and 206
water injection wells to a depth of approximately 1,250 meters,
and equipping them with the necessary surface and subsurface
equipment.
(b) Oil Production, Treating and Transportation Facilities: installing
about 615 flowing and pumping wells, 71 production metering
stations and 18 oil pumping stations; laying about 760 km of
flow lines; and expanding the capacity of the three existing
dehydration stations to accommodate additional production from
the Gaotaizi reservoir.
(c) Associated Gas Gathering, Treating and Handling Facilities:
installing about 13 compressor stations; laying about 150 km of
gas lines; and installing three glycol gas dehydration stations
and the main gas compressor station.



- 21 -
(d) Water Injection Facilities: installing three water injection
stations; expanding the existing oily water treating stations;
and laying over 100 km of high-pressure water injection lines
and about 40 km of water supply and drainage lines.
(e) General Utilities: installing three electric substations with
associated equipment and distribution lines; constructing about
35 km of paved roads; and constructing office buildings and
lodging facilities.
(f)  Computer Center and Laboratories: providing (i) a computer cente-r
with hardware, software, peripheral equipment and services;
(ii) an operationally oriented research laboratory for special
and conventional core analysis, and imbibition and wettability;
(iii) a complete laboratory to evaluate enhanced oil recovery
methods; and (iv) a field laboratory for oil, gas and water
gathering, treatment and transportation.
(g) Seismic Survey Equipment: providing equipment for seismic survey
teams to explore the periphery of the greater Daqing oilfield.
(h) Training: establishing a training center in Daqing field for
skilled workers with an annual capacity of 2,000 and equipping
it with a drilling rig, surface production equipment, simulators,
visual aids and a library; and establishing a training center for
professionals at the Petroleum Institute in Daqing with an annual
capacity of 500 and providing the necessary laboratory, teaching
materials and foreign instructors.
(i) Studies: providing experts and performing studies in the
following areas: (i) drilling and completion practices; (ii)
Gaotaizi reservoir geology and engineering; (iii) fluid flow
process design and optimization of surface production facilities;
(iv) design of curriculae and teaching methods for training; (v)
oilfield safety practices; and (vi) enhanced oil recovery.
(j) Future Project Preparation: undertaking a three dimensional
seismic survey in the Wenliu oilfield and interpreting its
results; commissioning a feasibility and design study of a
liquefied petroleum gas plant in Zhongyuan; and undertaking
pre-investment studies for the preparation of other petroleum
projects.
Project Implementation
76.       DPAB will be responsible for implementing the project components
re:Lated to the Daqing oilfield, while MOPI will be responsible for all
pre-investment studies, including preparation of the Zhongyuan project.



- 22 -
Production Company No. 1 (PCN1), one of DPAB-s seven production companies,
will be responsible for implementing the project component that would
develop the Gaotaizi reservoir. The component was designed by Daqing's
Research and Design Institute, which will modify it in accordance with the
results of the reservoir study. Development drilling will be carried out by
the Drilling Company No. 2 and surface facilities will be installed by a
specialized construction company. Drilling and completion services will be
subcontracted by the Drilling Company No. 2 to the Drilling Services Company
and the Downhole Servicing Company, respectively.
77.        PCN1 is a well-managed company.  Its normal annual program for
drilling new wells exceeds the program proposed under the project. Similarly,
the relevant drilling services and surface construction companies have the
requisite experience and management capabilities to carry out effectively
their tasks under the project. However, to coordinate and monitor this
component, a special project team will be established in PCN1. Assurances
have been obtained that DPAB would establish a Project Unit headed by a Deputy
Director in PCN1 by March 31, 1983 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.15).
Assurances have also been obtained that project progress reports with agreed
format and content would be furnished to the Bank (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.05).
78.        The major thrust of the project is to induct new technology,
refurbish research facilities,. evaluate and improve field practices, and
upgrade the level of training. Assurances have been obtained that DPAB
would pursue these aims by undertaking the following studies/actions under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, using qualified consultants
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02):
(a) a Gaotaizi reservoir study to devise the optimum plan for
further development of the field; the study will be completed by
December 31, 1983 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08);
(b) a four-stage feasibility study of enhanced oil recovery to
identify the optimum method(s) for the Daqing field. The first
three phases of the study will be completed by December 31, 1983,
and the fourth phase consisting of field pilot application by
December 31, 1985 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.09);
(c) a review of process flow design and optimization of surface
facilities, to be completed by July 31, 1983 (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.10);
(d) a study of drilling and completion practices to develop a package
of field practices consistent with the needs of Daqing field and
modern petroleum technology. The study would be completed by
May 31, 1983 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.11); and



- 23 -
(e) establishment of two training centers, by October 1, 1983, one
for professionals and the other for skilled workers (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.14). A study of training curricula and
teaching methods would be carried out by January 31, 1984 (draft
`?roject Agreement, Section 2.12).
DPAB will review the results of these studies with the Bank, and will
develop and implement agreed action plans.
Ecology and Safety
79.        DPAB's drilling and production operations pose minimal threat to
the ecology. Oil and liquid wastes would be the major concern, but all
wastes are kept in closed systems and fully treated before disposal. On the
other hand, current safety measures in the Daqing oilfield appear
inadequate. Drilling rigs lack blowout preventers and explosior-proof
lights; there is inadequate care and protection of electric power cables;
and the derrick floors are dirty and poorly organized. Fire prevention
equipment is minimal and seems insufficient to prevent or contain a major
oil fire. The few safety regulations that exist are seldom enforced, and
the number of accidents is relatively high. Assurances have been obtained
thiat DPAB would complete by June 30, 1983, with the assistance of
consultants, a study of safety measures, review the study's findings with
the Bank, and develop an action plan satisfactory to the Bank to improve
safety in its operations (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.13).
Project Costs and Financing
80.        The project costs, including the capitalized front-end fee, is
estimated at $674.3 million equivalent, of which $228.4 million or 34%
represents the foreign exchange component. A physical contingency of 7% was
applied to the cost of all imported equipment and materials and of 15% to all
local costs. The basic cost estimate is based on 1982 prices; price esca-
lation for both local and foreign costs has been assumed at 8% for FY82 and
FY83, 7.5% for FY84, 7% for FY85 and 6% for FY86.  In estimating the cost of
expatriate consultant services (466 man-months), a man-month rate of $17,000
has been assumed for personnel based in the home office and $20,000
(inclusive of travel and subsistence) for staff assigned to China. These
rates are deemed to be both reasonable and in line with current charges
prevailing in the petroleum industry. The cost of service contracts for
highly specialized equipment is included in equipment costs.
81.        The Bank loan of $162.4 million, including a front-end fee of
$2.4 million, represents 71% of the foreign exchange component and 24% of the
total project cost. The remainder of the foreign exchange component ($66 mil-
lion) represents the cost of tubular goods; these would be procured using
suppliers' credits if available, or be financed by the Government from its
own resources. The Government would meet all local costs, equivalent to
$445.9 million. $153.9 million of the Bank loan would be onlent to DPAB on
the same terms and conditions. DPAB will bear the foreign exchange risk.



- 24 -
Procurement and Disbursement
82.       Goods and services financed under the proposed Bank loan would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Guidelines, limited international tendering (LIT), or direct purchase.
LIT will be used to procure highly specialized or proprietary equipment,
which may account for about 50% of the total loan. Goods and materials
costing less than $150,000 equivalent may be procured through direct purchase
up to an aggregate amount of $5 million (3% of the Bank loan). All bid
packages having a value of $500,000 or above would be subject to Bank review
prior to contract award; other packages would be reviewed subsequently.
Drilling and construction works would be carried out by force account (DPAB's
own force) with the Bank financing only goods and services.
83.       The proposed Bank loan of $162.4 million would finance 100% of
foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures ex-factory (if procured
locally through ICB) for all equipment and materials (except casing and
tubing). The loan would also finance 100% of foreign expenditures for foreign
contractor/consultant's works and services. There would be a retroactive
financing of up to $7 million for the three dimensional seismic survey, which
has already been contracted by the Government for the preparation of the
second petroleum project. Disbursement of the Bank loan for the production
stations and the enhanced oil recovery field pilot application is contingent
upon completion of the relevant design/optimization and feasibility studies
respectively and their review with the Bank. The specific conditions of
disbursements are that:
(a) the first three stages of the study on enhanced oil recovery
be completed and the findings reviewed with the Bank prior to any
disbursement for implementation of the field pilot application
(draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(b); and
(b) the study on process flow design and optimization of surface
facilities be completed, the findings reviewed and the plan
agreed upon with the Bank prior to any disbursement for the
production stations (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(c)).
Financial Aspects, Accounts and Audits
84.       DPAB is operating in a centrally planned economy in which all the
factors of production are tightly controlled. Fundamental differences exist
between some of DPAB's practices and the financial/accounting practices of
commercially oriented petroleum enterprises. DPAB's production is marketed as
directed, and at prices fixed by the Government.  DPAB's performance is
currently measured on the basis of product output under given budget
parameters rather than profitability. DPAB is required to transfer all net
income and 50% of its annual depreciation to the Government. The Government
covers the approved cost of exploration and makes specific contributions to
development.



- 25 -
85.       Within the context of financial arrangments in China, DPAB's
finances are satisfactory. DPAB has consistently produced large surpluses
and, over the last three years, its contributions to the Government amounted
to some $2 billion p.a. DPAB's fiscal contributions would have been
substantially higher if the state sales tax (about $435 million) and profit
on DPAB's exports of crude had been taken into account. DPAB has not yet
incurred any long-term debt. It has a very high self-financing ratio and
over the next five years is expected to finance from its internal funds over
80% of its investment and field maintenance program ($4 billion).
86.       The DCF financial rate of return on the Gaotaizi reservoir
development component is estimated at 36% (in real terms) over the project's
life. Like other oilfields that have been producing for over 20 years, DPAB
will incur increasingly higher costs in oil extraction. Nevertheless,
DPAB's operating ratio is low, presently about 30%, and with the 75% crude
price increase expected to become effective in FY84 (from Y 100/t for
Daqing to Y 175/t), DPAB is projected to remain a significant fiscal
provider for the Government.
87.       Financial practice in China places heavy emphasis on the annual
budget; longer term financial planning is generally not undertaken.
However, given the uncertain rate of oil and gas recovery and the related
costs of extraction, it would seem prudent for MOPI to extend the horizon of
financial planning in the industry, so that it can serve as a management
tool. It is recommended that DPAB be used as a trial case, given its
satisfactory record of short-run financial management. Assurances have been
obtained that DPAB shall consult with the Bank each year on PCN1's current
and future finances, including the trend of production costs, budget
variance analysis, future investment program, and related financing
arrangements (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.04).
88.       Present accounting practices in China do not provide for an
external audit of such scope and depth as to meet internationally accepted
standards. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) is currently setting up an
independent audit group within the Ministry to review and certify the
statements of all state-owned enterprises. Regulations on auditing will be
formulated, and the independent audit group could in the near future be
transferred to the jurisdiction of the State Council. Technical assistance
is being provided for the group by several organizations, including the UN,
and through specific bilateral aid. While the project account would be
fully audited by MOF, audit of DPAB would initially be limited in scope.
However, as the auditing group develops, this would become a full audit in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Assurances have been
obtained that DPAB would keep separate project accounts, have the
project accounts and PCN1's accounts audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, and submit to the Bank financial statements and
auditor's reports on such accounts and audits within 6 months after the end
of each fiscal year (draft Project Agreement, Sections 4.01 through 4.03).



- 26 -
Benefits and Risks
89.       The main quantifiable benefit of the project would be the incre-
mental supply of oil and gas. Production from the Gaotaizi reservoir is
expected to reach a peak of 3.8 million tons of crude and 161 million cubic
meters of gas p.a. The economic rate of return for the project is estimated
at 91%, and the net present value, at a 12% discount rate, amounts to
$2.4 billion over the life of the project. These values are high partly
because this project benefits from the sunk costs of exploration in the
Daqing oilfield. The project utilizes the least cost method for developing
the reservoir, and the attractive return expected from the project makes it
a high priority in the sectoral context. A sensitivity analysis indicates
that in the worst-case scenario, where the project is delayed by one year,
incurs a 20% cost overrun and achieves only 70% of the base case production,
the rate of return would still be a highly satisfactory 58%.
90.       In addition to the quantifiable benefits, the principal objective
and benefit of the project is the transfer of technology. This would be
achieved through the import of modern equipment, the buildup of operational
research capability, and technical assistance for undertaking various studies.
The skills of workers and professionals would be upgraded through training
provided under the project. This should lead to improved operational
practices, as well as ensuring that workers can handle the sophisticated
equipment purchased as part of the project.
91.       The project carries the operational risks which are inherent to the
petroleum industry. The inadequate safety practices in drilling operations
and the absence of blow-out preventers increase the risks to human life and
equipment. To attenuate these risks, the project would include a review of
DPAB's safety practices. In addition, the utilization of modern equipment and
the provision of technical assistance for various studies and training would
help reduce operational risks.
92.       The project also involves geological uncertainties.  The Gaotaizi
reservoir has been penetrated by over 1,000 wells drilled to exploit other
reservoirs in the Sa ertu field. Such a large number of control points would
normally provide enough assurance of the recovery rate, but the geological
conditions of the reservoir make it difficult to estimate recoverable
reserves; these could vary from over 50 million tons to 30 million tons or
less.  However, the project remains economically attractive even with the
lower, more conservative estimates.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
93.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the
Daqing Petroleum Administrative Bureau, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 27 -
94.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are that China's State
Council shall have approved the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement;
and that a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement shall have been signed
between tLe Government and DPAB. Conditions of disbursement are that:
(a) the first three stages of the study on enhanced oil recovery
be completed and the findings reviewed with the Bank prior to
any disbursement for implementation of the field pilot
application; and
(b) the study on process flow design and optimization of surface
facilities be completed, the findings reviewed and the plan agreed
upon with the Bank prior to any disbursement for the production
stations.
95.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
96.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 6, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-28-                                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHA. PEOPrS RVP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATOIS DATA SHEET
cul                               UZRiFC     GWLOUPS (WElCItTED AN Z5
LAND AL (TOOU   SQ. KM.)                                                          - .DST RECENT ESTIXATE)-
ZOTAL          9561.0                                        IQST REGRET    LUJ U4CONE   SI1DOLS INCOcE
AGZICULIURL    3184.0                  1960  /b   1970 /b    ESTNATE /b  ASIA 6 PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PRI CAPITA (USS)                      ..            ..         290.0           261.A                 890.1
ENER0 CONSUMPTION PrI CAPITA
(KXLOGRAMS OF CDAL. E(IVAIMET)       559.9         434.9         733.6/c         446.7                 701.7
POPULATION AD vtTAL STATSTICS
POPUAT70N, fMID-YEA (THOUSAS)   672865.0        815253.0     976735.0
UR    POPULATION (PZR    OP TOL)        ..          12.0          13.2            17.3                  32.4
POPUIATION PROLCTIOW
POPUATION IN MLAl 2000 (MLONS)                                1245.2
STLTIONABX POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              1570.2
YZA STATIONY Pop5ATioN Is ii*                                 2070
POPULATION DrSsIT
PER SQ. M.                          70.4          85.3         100.9           158.1                 255.9
PER SQ. I. GIZILTAL  LAND         211.8         253.7         302.9           355.9                1744.0
POPMrmON      S'hDCSU=   (PEnuh)
0-14 nRS.                             ..            ..         32.3             36.8                 39.9
15-64 YRS.                             ..            ..         63.7             59.7                 56.8
65 Y'LS. AD AsO                        ..            ..          4.0              3.5                  3.3
POPUATION GZOWTN RATE (PSEChY)
TorAL                                2.0           1.9          1.J/d            2.0                  2.3
URBAN                                 ..            ..          2.8              3.3                  3.9
CRUDE BIRTR RATZ (PER TH01AND)        40.1l/        39.6L        21. 1            29.3                 31.8
CIUDE DTE RATZ (PER TOUSAND)          13.6/  5      9.6           7.8j            11.0                  9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTIOU NAE                  ..            ..          1.4R             2.0                  2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTRS. aNUAL C(NUIMA)              ..
UsUs (PRCiNT Of mURl-D    E)          ..            .                           19.3                 36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INiDEX OP FOOD PIOGIETON
PE CAPITA (1969-71-100)               ..         100.0         117.0           108.1                 115.6
PER CAPITA sUPPL. OP
CALORIES (PERCENT oF
REQUIRIMNS)                       86.0/o          ..        103.0             97.3                106.4
PROTEINS (CAMS Pn DAY)              58.67          ..          62.6             56.9                 54.4
OF WHICHR ANlINA  AND PULSE         ..            ..         26.0             20.0                 13.9
1HLD (AM;S 1-4) tTATY                   ..            ..          4.5/h           10.9                  6.7
HEALTH
EXPECTJANCY AT BIRTH (YLUS)             .                        64.0/h           57.8                 59.8
IUWANT ORtTALITY RATE (PER
TUSAND)                                 ..            ..         56.0/h           89.1                 63.7
ACCeSS TO SAFE WATKI (PCENT Of
POPUTATION)
TOTAL                                 ..            ..           ..             32.9                 32.0
URIU                                  ..            ..           ..             70.7                 51.9
RURASL                                ..            ..           ..             22.2                 20.5
ACCESS M ESCUAT DISPOSAL (PUCENT
of POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..            ..           ..             18.1                 37.7
URlAN                                 ..            ..           ..             72.7                 65.7
RURAL                                 ..            ..           ..              4.7                 24.0
POPUIATION PNR PHYSICIAN            3009 8/.J    1709.1/i      1096.2/i         3297.8               8540.4
POPULATION PER USING PRSO           2471           538.8/f      483.2/f        14929.3               4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL ZD0
TOTAL                             2142.5/.       731.3        492.8           1100.4               1047.5
UNN                                   ..            ..        172.1            301.3                651.6
RURAL                                 ..            ..        702.3          5815.7                2597.6
ADMISSIONIS NR HOSPITAL RED             ..            ..           ..              ..                  27.0
HOUSlNC
AVELWE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..            ..
URBAN                                 ..            ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERACE NOSIER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..            ..
URUAN                                 ..            ..
RURAL                                 ..            ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF WELL7NCS)
TOTAL                                 ..            ..
URBAN                                 ..            ..
RURAL                                  ..



- 29 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHZEE
CHINA *                            RZ ZRZNCZE  OUPS (WzIGcrD AVljM;ES
-   DST RZCENt ESTIMI.TZ )-
MOST RZCT        LOw INCOME         HIDDLE INCaEE
1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA 4 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
,DJUSTED EIaOLuNIT ATIOS
PRIDAIY:    TOTAL                    102.0         103.0         118.0             97.4                   96.2
M                          ..            ..         111.0/k           101.0                  99.8
FEMALE                     ..            ..         114.07%           87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      ..            ..          79.0              53.0                  37.6
ALE                        ..            ..          92.0             63.8                   41.1
FMALZ                      ..            ..          65.0             41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL EROL. (I OF SECONDARY)         ..            ..           2.4              1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PnDIKA                                  ..            ..          27.0             37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                               ..            ..          19.0             20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERCY RATE (PZE)                  ..            *           66.0             52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENZER CAS PER TWURAD
POPULATION                              ..            ..            ..              1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PZR TUSAD
POPULATION                              ..            ..            ..             35.4                 116.5
nr RECEIVZRS PrR THOUSAID
POPULATION                              ..            ..             .              3.2                  37.6
NEWSPAPER (OAILY GeNEL
INTERST) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       ..            ..            ..             16.4                  53.7
CINEN  ASNUAL ATTNDC  PE  CAPITA          ..            ..            ..              3.6                   2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (TEMUSNDS)        234602.4Ltl 33996O.5/   403163.1I
FENrL (PERCZNT)                         ..            ..            ..             29.5                  33.6
AGRICULTURZ (PERCZUT)                   ..            ..          71.0             70.0                  52.2
INDUSTRT (PERCENT)                      ..            ..          17.0             15.0                  17.9
PAtICIPATION RATE (PERCETr)
rOTAL                                   37.0/-        41.7          41.8             40.0                  38.5
MLA                                       ..            ..            ..             51.8                  50.5
EL                                        ..            ..            ..             23.8                  26.6
ECOaN1C DPEZNCT RATIO                       ..            ..           0.9              1.0                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIRUION
PRCENT OF PRIVATE INCO
RECEIVED BS
HIGHEST 5 PERCENt OP NoJSElLDS          ..            ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT aF HOUSEBOLDS        ..            ..
LUET 20 PRCE   oP  OUSELOS              ..            ...s....
LOWIST 40 PERCENT Of NUSIOLDS           ..            ..
POVETY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATZD ASOLUr  POVERY INICBZ
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UR                                     ..            ..             ..            133.8                 194.7
RURAL                                   ..            ..            ..            111.5                 155.1
ESTDUATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOE
LEVZL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAm                                  ..            ..            ..                .                  178.2
RURAL                                  ..             ..            ..               ..                 164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVZRTY
IkICOKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBS                                    ..           ..             ..             43.8                  24.4
RURAL                                  ..            ..            ..              51.7                  41.1
Not available.
Not applicable.
NOTES
*   Al data zexlud  Taiwan, Cbhia.
/a  The group av*rages for each itdicator are populatiot-eighted arithmetic  sma.  Cov.rage of countries
mong the indicators depen   on availability of data and is not unifot.
/b   Unles otherwiae noted, data for 1960 reftr to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
aad 1971; and for Most Recant Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Country estimte is 64 kilogra  of coal equivalent.
7T Latest *stimate of anual growth of population is 1.21.
/- 1957; /f Including barefoot doctors; L Sank crude birth ad death rate estimates for 1979 were higher
tha the offical data.  The officil rates have been adjusted accordingly; /h B nk demographic analyses
utiliza a higher eatimate of the crude mortality rats than the 6.2 that is officially given. The values
of infant and child mortality shon hers, baed on the Rank-s analyses, are thus higher than use of the
official figures would indicate; and the estimat here of life expectancy is lower than the official
figure of 68.2 years; /i Excluding traditional mdical doctors.
LI   Including military pernonal and those oawiting permanent jobs, most of whw are in tporary jobs; /k 1977.
Mey, 1982



- 30     -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
J1flV;TTC0.S 0F SOCIAl NKOCOTOIS
ftt_   AL000.4  Ch. 4.00 .-0 40000 0000 -OOOtO wm.00iy 1ao  Ch. not -LboOI00COO   -00 C*11.01. 10  0.t14A 01.0 00 ,0100 Ch00 C07000hoy F-   b.  0C
noI-Lao.1   o0.oahlo booaoo  00 tO. 1.00  of  oOoOt tO.ICI.100.  .00 000000t0  -" by  100nO000 diff.o toIIooi-oa th0 8800.  100 d00or.  n
tholo. aot,.t to toocrtbo arg-of at    lt . Iw.U08. t-".. "0 c00000t-10                     -J.Ol   )0  810ffor.. 00.0 -  Oat.
TM .0 rod-ro Sto. an  (I) ch. w-eon        r 00 -0070.9 o  ch. .00).o  to-cry 00  (2) a oCt07 s00.0 ottO  oldwohot high., 000800  Loco000    th 00    -t.7 00.-
oC 'he =.9900  coCt17 (logla  Cmr   0100 1.00.0t  OL. E.Wvc.,o' geoo  C0oW  7014dL0 L0000 X00th 0gf.  -.000  M18810 E..' L.  ho000  000000  of  L00.04
0.01a.oolOOOI .00110 1...  1.00    -ooS  vraw"   Ch.t  otod-, a -ogoI_W.o   sO. aril.tOl   -.   for .-h0 tatOtO0  tC  otLy CC
"00ty tf at 5000000  10tfo   M  .rCs 0* 80. 8 000 thot I00ao          _ 11.. c-.000  onSof -0 1 0   Ot lbo t0L-dt--. 8.,00do on 0"' .0011001t0  of 8".0
0. L.n. - 010.0. .-I000  -dt b4 "MU"00  02 roMtlOO   -Voo. .O 0P " OaO todt.  C. -bol. T7... -0040   r.al,otO. -   1 -t1 b10090010  -th  -L"0 -L
onodcLo  or100   at a 00 W."Co   CMo 000.07-d r.fol"e. 3000..
AR   (0cC-w   .4.0.)                                                                      0.10. ot.h tal0.  - total  C00   n  0001- 00,010000 (tota.
TotL.  - Tot.)  .to  as.. or- co0.400 1.80  r-. 000 L*LC co.; 1979 400.                   IO.*0001)4080b   0.,   naf .A..r o  000t.01. 000
Airt-lont,lio  - lotloo of ",i`Lc.01ooO  aoro -00  t.0001y or pdr-w.0.0y                  .08.10 1*pbult  C4 Pei*0  w-0.I0 an  .ootw.ld. hoortOOl anwd.
fot ary.P---oo. -hoo  Cd 110000  0r0-C 0M to 1t. 0011000  1770 8080.lm                                            wii  ... ...010 10000.   -91.1000001C0   000-.-0017i00100
by 00 1.oom 00   0            t)10.00llol-C. Pl.otdi.9 prOoo"I.c1  ntoe-
CW  Mf CA011  JUN) - GNP p.r n0118 0001000. Ot ta-Co  weedt P01-0. .1I-                     dil0.00 - 0 .0 - .0100d.  b0.01 h0091.014. h-0.0, L-I."000  001C
-Lu.00  by  o   to..oln0 d0 a. 0.010 IC  Aol- (1971-00 b.01.); 1900).                    od. -d10.l .otr   o   .n0Ol   tO000    P0.080  (ho  by
4800000.0   r.0.0    11.10.  C-ad of -A.00C1001   z P81100 .,    I.00-
UWOY C0WI   "M 1051A - lnow   ooooo0t00  00 aaonOot.L onore   (o.-L                         toL Pmo-oo ao-h0oo.plt.la 100100  WOO Ve100100/8-00000  000t10"..
.0100.poo.eft. 000001 00  -  1C 0000-. -0.100C    g. owho.-n  010-               800  -.ot8  h0090810. 10081 00 0*1000.00   0001 Cope"   d"-     00001010
0.10107) 0.0 ktiosetmb o  to.) "..10.00t pot  .L".14.  90. 1197                           o0t.r. 090.Iwo 0.09101. .0.1001.8            -L, 01y 000  t.00..
d000.                                                                                   Aft"1an0   ob.ta   0  - TonL nC00 .0 w.001-0  000  01d.00"r00
toa" M    m10ta  F10NRI(hn.0Oa  - A. of J.ly 1; 1940. 1910. .0   WO
4000.                                                                                  nO.0.00b.4 0o00   o   oOt)-.0.  r...0ra-
10.._ roo..101     (onoOa 0 toO0_1) - 0001  of -000  to total PtyolOOlaO                  A  oooO000.00     oo.0   010100CCO1114OOO
di000.e dflittxow 00 "Om0 a'."" myst o ..0 -ow00114y 00 800.                            t001.0  0040  -L.. A 00000or0.00          r  1009W  0   we ho 000.100  0
E=po-4u.0 1960. 1770.     1940i  "U0..                                                   0-00.0000   00.-0001.00      p.0900.
0.00100100 POt           r-00w01" pol1000-b..    -IN                               Aeo             P"000  000   0   o       .0..aO.        00      e0
0001 9901010  by 89  Cd on   C 00.1  nort"IOy  Cd 0.001100  0000o.                410 .0. on.p.obloy.  No-1W.00~100  bo0..90-0t .tv,ot0w00  C
1am  -110    000      fo00r1 lwe"i.00  010         ofC ' t00 00910. -.o.w,o0 t-oqs lIortOlly(00.   f  010.)-001.000                                    00
1.nl. C  0 el. 1100 -woom-oy .0011.410  00 77.5 yole..  TOo p.o.-                    c0ooonttoool dnIILao010  o1..0o081., 0.        " 1114-9.000  0  90000
.00000 Ito 0.0c1110  ra" .1   ho   c.. 00  ).a0L0 .00C.0  40.1.40 0.                  CC t00.1. aOh-. Ct otoa  8on" 0.al      o900'i,
000011.10,y -t00Olo  00 0.0... 1.0.1  C6 90 0C.ly PWCIL.  0000-o-W.
%-h.0 tac    L. to 00  -Lw   -  oftO 00o  1-  C-b00100- .f n0001tY               EDW17O
C -  Nn001110  t..Co 0000100    prp,.o.                                              000.000  X0.0.1-0.   0.00.
tt0 -1007 000.L00400 - Ia0000800  po,o4.o010  tClh 0. - 0000.0          - 0400t-100,0000  - 00001. -00        .01  - dna. W-L0. .01. a0  O.lAO
000blt 0100  U0 0.040 .1 00 000 80000    . 00 0. C L"00  000 MP 0.0. cro 90o           .0004l150 PC 011 .000  -000  p n   10     - p0.0000.  PC 00  .00010
0100 0000.0.  701. 1*00-1.-00007 .000  fmlat?  000  40.1.0 to                           901.-07 .000-osO 7.90100000   -.00n11  0.1000. 00110000.00  4-1
CM0 CL-o-- 1.01 of.1 odLt   oo9 o-COlaod -ft. 0000well dwells100                       y000  Poe8100000  diOff-t 1.0gt00 0f 0040007 00.000480  00
J. t.0.1                                                                               .0000m0 rU.    40  .o 1... 00.0  000000S99.OC,pIntto4rwoC100
o~~.o .111 Ito .0.0000.                                          eal~~~~~~~~~.P.ly 00 12 M0 I 7-00  P0 00    000.00   tolrm  00  000.0117
f9,940-  0-70. P..901oti  ole .4-oO  kA140.0t- 0100 br--) of                  70001-1 nonII--          .o    fC.00.-700111010C
I%llrn   10. 19ox  Co  1977 000a.                                               0o.".0  toWoO.L.. Id.01a1. .00          OOC   O   0              1101C
k4s                                                             Lowr mO-t  . 110     wily 00.0 ft.rtCm. .0  0.9?00000.0
al;1940. 1970  C  179 8000.                                                     0011Oat.  00.    0t.               o0.00d     tota  oft Sdlo -MU"o J.
0..180.  SC-- lttooo   7.0.0)-1018.  (0-14 ,o-o.. nooloo-.o. (11-                   p040-07  C                       inC0  100881.  by           is 0  0    0b.0
dO  -00 W .0  rOao   ISy.M     0000  00 C= p.00000,  010.-700  0009                corralow0   100010.
lotS.. 19000. 1770. 008 1911 400.                                                     00.10 110800  lt  (.0-c.t) - 110000 00.14  (00)0 M0 rs" 000 n-.)
yey91o   ., Isla-M0. 1740M-10.o.                                                       C. 100-40.cd   w9w   w
P.0.001. 05.0  000(.noo e  - A-0. l-   bital soC   cbOo.     00f0 "d-po-                                         poro-S6"                         h-r
CC."0 31-0  3000 (-  t0-nC) - *..   d- 11 . 00000 cb--A C 00400.700                      080  .0.1" l.,a  lwo-. ..0  000050p A.LL0 C""as... r 00.00r0  Cwr
C091  L9t170 * 1970. .00 1900 dOo.                                                001000   to0".00I0100.-"-  ".uus"ew
01t1107         -Ll f0000.00 oo0-7.0000-"ft 0000. La 140. 1970. .00 LOW.               .00   --000o4a a011000  1180010.
T0.1"' H         *onc!  400000_.A--L (t0000.0) - Ca_L    boaO  CC ...P-.               7 00800 T"00tO00nO   n.-oldelo) - TV 0.0t.0  Cm0 b0Sodw  to
08.1  Po10  - O-. (o.Oe0 nof       0.0  C       I-`ft -" 00  L00. eC',0   Cd L. 7noo  -h- co1400000t00 0 PC TV0 onf 0. .000..
.A0 00110-hoIfb.uo (13047000 I.; b. o   hlso--teOa                 to10   0     000001004.00(    000.a0  .ooeoot.    N- 10000. 0000o.-
.11 -00040        A.  C  .00 0000.                                                     .*0100  ~81  WoOol  .000I   .00090900", 8004000               P" 00040
to 0. 8o"17y  10 it 009000  at 1000  foo  00I.0 0 -n.%
(40. f y80ooooo.oono10000(174-1.100  -I 10000           d 000 o0-d0 .5.          10 o.5 000no4. AOo0e   y-,010.0   o.   80  to 00                    - 00
poCOlo.  t .1  0.0  OCOb4...  PZ.          P. two elod.  00.0* C                   -d 00bo1 U.0 o01t8.10   0    5    .ot14Cbl.  o4190   1
000100  00 0000) .010       "ML.401   Cd  no"'ls Coletwe. (0..6. .00.. 00
0000000  0'C000l 00000000 rolOn 00000  1961-43. 1970. Cd 104  d000.                  IY~0     0.00. (tO00nCoO  - Okoo.008a11  0.010  0.005d. lIO
10  01.. mix.1  .0010..(0000o   o.l0n8  - 10000 000OO    00..00Co0  bPt -5I100.  0.0.0015. 000CC.. 000..
-0--v .4101000CO    01o..10. Ao   -Cer P.. 00000                                                           PC10O,.010a  .11 0000.  0.1100   . nooO    -eool.  000
P00 80,. A-0014.0 0-911. @00.0.. 40.0.0. pro.*001. ipooto L-s                          -ot ew09-"01.  1900. 1970 C  iWO 800.
report0. C6 -16000 0. 0000.  000t0011*l.0100-L."8001 foo. 0000.                        F~!.C4..(0900)  - P . 1000  C000  00 00-00.00 C0 00001 4.00  00..
00-0u1.100  0"  . ICd Prot 0014. Cd 10.0.00. 84000100000-  0.4010-                    (Mhii=        3 o)- L0O- foo. 10 fo.00g. f-00.00. CoOsg C
-oW nt  0004000  by ?A0 =00  00 phy.110"j1*0l  O to -w        .0. f1- --L0  00 00000-.00   PC 00.1. 1000 f000.1 1960. 1970 Cd 1WO 000.
0107. C  00810  00"01800100 oryl-m-co  OcaoOOO. 007 00100.0. .00010.0   Co0    0.Oo  00001 0006 0000.1.. .n0000
C=C  8r00000.0100 0090910010. 000 8110000  10 00000  0000000C0100117.-00                                            00  00         S.0000  00 00001 1*00  10--
IC0010o..1; 1901-45. 1970 C  1777 8000                                              1900. 1970 C4 100 80...
--L.099i7 of IC" P. 080.  0.0 .ooPPl of f-C  L. 8.44.00 a. ft .  30-001070000   n 00000...0.Ctl la.0000
q00105-0. f00.1.1 toc`LO  -00004.00  by (LIM  fo.oLd. 000 `0L0l5                       P-o00t' 0  toa.  .0...0  0 C-o         00901001.0 ato 4.1 000  0009000-.001
olloC. at 60 B.-of  -I000  OOoOt P.. lay  C  20 S.-o ot 0.1.  Cd                       1940. 1970.-C  1960 8".0.  Th-.- o-od0.0     ZZA f.OP.900110010000
,0.L" PM.000. at 00000 10 S.-  .00.14 00 .0400  p00.001. rb00.0  0W-                   0.0100014 000-C onOof 00 o 00    91.01..W. Cd 1.06 010  tCT . A
.000.0-  Low. Ih-C h.. of 71 SO-  00 000.1 000001  Cw 113 .00f                         fno 0001-00.  ag  fn n a-1  -CnOoo.
01001 P00-0.10  0.8-  -      too 00  014. Pm-".0  by r0010 Ch0 0010                  00.15  00000... 30010 - 300l0 of 7.9010000`0000  15 Cd 0C   0.
00014 T.C 700,0; 10.1-41. 1970 Co  1977 4_o                                            000  000.  -.00  000.-
P..000.001 .-f.1,1 tfn 001.00  .0  P4Lk  - 0.00.10 0.991  of 0o00 8..
C1C  00000..Cp.l.- 1. seo  P- p.o  a; 1901-41. 1970  Cd L197 4000.                    cmDI
000 60-9 -P 7000  0 t1y400-. 00  M0 re   (o                   0.1d 00o-                  00000  0.0002000000._ On  0  0000.                  b00_0 40 P09
00.1-0d0 d001000 000  11f00-010.; 1900. 1070  Co  1900 d.00.                           f0 00-.00001..
010170                                                                     0000.77 TOWEl SW.ElllUl                                            I"      1~ 
00.*M. 0   h900.   177            "a 16 80.                                              C  0.01*0-d000000 000 .0.000A10@0L100
0.0 @ 7..C. (1001  a-rh...       ooe01) 010  0.a.00000000 "d" tO oat.)              0000 `.0`1t
000c.0 owof (h.0.0. 00.8000ly 08.O.L. 000.00         -     -r Ooo.00- OoO 00000100-00000 f100    toet, -oon 100.  (01i doo               0 d f- 000C,  0-0L
C0=0 .180  t.:d-APt 100000  0o.0.-0000     200 -oo- tOO. 0 00000.7 00                  oya ottO 081o.O   f0  high-  -00  o1 1101001 Lo        0.000
to..to t00. 0100.  (P..-.ofe 00  oeo.10100  - 00001,  0000  W0 0000  -
000 -0@07001  (1.0-. --08. 80  C-t1)  -d*0  by   -C000  d109000  00
ce00000040  af 00010 otOnoon l0010o.                 dipn0040.0.0 100  latldo
an. 0000-0.00       .7.00 I;.;.0  ChCC'  0- 00- 00  t. o1f 00110    -C.0
00,0101.0000  Owottac    OooIaot.00010by o..o al 9o00.8o00-                                                      fto-08 o0  Soca  0.00 011001-
0.01010  -0 00.0  d...   i00100000100  Oby  -     00 p00001l00                                                                  My 1962
no. W _.C ol   000.00   000.  .001000  00000. P-le".0  0000 
000-.0oo.loo



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (X) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                       2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    2.7    5.7
Lighit industry                   8.3       7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1
Heavy industry                   11.6       9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7
Net Material Product (NMP)          5.2       4.8      12.4    7.0    6.9    3.0
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4
NMP deflator         (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.6   100.4    105.1   106.5   109.6
Exchange rate        (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.83    1.66         1.54    1.50    1.71
Amount
1981                   Shares of GDP (X)              Average Annual Growth ( a) at Constant Prices
National Accounts              ($ billion)   1957    1979    1981        1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
/a        /a       /a
GDP                            263.2       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8           5.8       4.9       4.1       4.2
Agriculture                   91.4          ..    31.4    34.7    33.3    31.4    1.6           3.2       4.2       3.0       3.0
Industry                     115.5          ..    43.7    43.9    44.9    46.6   12.1           8.9       7.7       4.6       5.0
Other                         56.3          ..    25.0    21.4    21.8    22.0    3.5           4.3      -3.1       4.5       4.5
Consuniption                   185.0        76.4    69.8    70.3    73.8    76.2    2.7            5.4       5.0       5.3       4.9
Investment                      76.5        23.2    31.1    29.1    27.5    25.0    9.8           6.8       2.1       2.6       2.3
Exports GNFS                    24.4         3.7/b   6.0/b   9.2        8.5    10.0    1.6/b    8.0/b   23.1           1.7       7.8
Imports GNFS                    22.7         3.571   7.07T   8.6        9.8    11.2    2.371    9.471    9.3           7.3      7.1
National savings                78.5        23.6/c  31.5    29.8    26.3    24.3         ..        ..        3.9      0.9       2.6
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                    1957          1979           1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign            28.7           27.3          21.7
borrowing)
Current expenditures                           15.1           17.0          15.6
SurpluLs (+) or deficit (-)                   +13.6         +10.3           -6.1
CapitalI expenditures                          13.7           15.6           8.5
Foreign borrowing                               0.7            0.9           1.8
Other Indicators                               1957-79   1979-81   1981-85   1985-90
GDP growth rate (%)                            5.4/d      4.9/d      4.1         4.2
GDP per capita growth rate (X)                 3.5Td      3.6Th       2.8        3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (X)             8.3.
ICOR                                           5.4          ..       6.3        6.2
Marginal savings rate                          0.42                 0.17       0.17
Import: elasticity                             0.95      1.90       1.78        1.69
/a  NMP basis.
/b  Goods only.
/c  GDS
/d Based on the official real NMP index (as are all figures for past NMP and GDP growth in this data sheet). At Indian
prices, GNP is estimated to have grown at 4.6% and GNP per capita at 2.7% during 1957-79.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita:  US$290 (1980)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                Annual Growtlh Rates (Z)
(million USS at                            (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                     current prices)                  Actual                            Projected
1981            1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports               22,027           10.1   25.5   16.8   15.9   -3.9   -0.8    1.7    6.9    7.7
Energy                           5,054             ..     ..      ..      ..  -45.2  -51.4  -86.7 -100.0    0
Other primary                    5,306             ..     ..      ..      ..    6.5     1.6    4.0    4.0    5.0
Manufactures                    10,533             ..     ..      ..      ..    9.7    9.7    9.7    9.7    9.0
Other                            1,134             ..     .,      ..      ..    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Merchandise imports               20,292           32.6   21.7   16.7   -8.6    3.2   15.1    4.3    4.2    7.9
Food                             5,340             ..     ..      ..      ..    3.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Petroleum                            0             ..     ..      ..      ..    0       0       0       -/a  107.6
Machinery and equipment          5,317             ..     ..      ..      ..    7.8    9.9    4.0    4.0    4.0
Other                            9,635             ..     ..      ..      ..    3.3   22.5    4.1    4.1    4.1
Prices
Export price index (1978=100)         ..          100.0  113.3  131.3  134.9  137.6  146.7  158.7  171.7  185.5
Import price index (1978=100)         ..         100.0  119.4  139.2  145.5  149.4  158.8  170.4  182.6  195.1
Terms of trade index (1978=100)        ..         100.0   95.2   94.3   92.7   92.1   92.4   93.1   94.0   95.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                 Average Annual Increase (x)
(at current prices)                            (at constant prices)
1978   1979   1980   1981   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-81  1981-85  1985-90
Exports                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         1.6       8.0      19.4       0.9       7.8
Energy                      13.8   19.5   25.1   22.9    0          0         ..        ..        ..       -/a       0
Other primary               39.7   34.1   28.4   24.1   27.5   26.9           ..        ..        ..       4.0       5.0
Manufactures                46.5   46.4   46.5   47.8   66.5   68.0           ..        ..        ..       9.7       9.0
Other                        0       0       0       5.2    6.0    5.1        ..        ..        ..       5.0       5.0
Imports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          2.3       9.4       9.9       7.6       7.4
Food                           ..     ..      ..   26.3   23.7   24.8         ..        ..        ..       5.0       5.0
Petroleum                    0       0       0       0      2.9   10.7        ..       0         0         -/a      46.0
Machinery and equipment    17.5   25.2   27.5   26.2   24.3   21.3            ..        ..        ..       6.4       4.0
Other                          ..     ..      ..   47.5   49.0   43.2         ..        ..        ..       9.9       4.1
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With           Share of Trade With              Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (%)   Developing Countries (%)              Planned Economies (%) /b
Direction of Trade             1978            1981          1978            1981               1978             1981
Exports                     37.3             45.9         51.6             50.2               11.1              3.9
Imports                     73.3             76.8         17.5             18.7                9.2             4.5
/a  Petroleum imports in 1985 are projected to total US$961 million in 1981 constant prices.
lb Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page of 6 of 6
Population: 977 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita: US$290 (1980)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                      Projected
Indicator                          1978    1979    1980    1981        1982    1985    1990
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services        10,606  15,351  20,901  25,157   24,663  33,700  71,451
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.        9,607  13,658  18,492  22,027   21,585  29,037  70,166
Imports of goods and services        11,912  17,582  23,946  23,628   24,928  38,848  75,509
of which: Merchandise c.i.f.       10,745  15,619  21,243  20,292   21,513  34,126  65,799
Net transfers                            597     656      640      467      617      767   1,017
Current account balance                -705  -1,575  -2,405   1,996         352  -4,381  -4,327
Private direct investment                  -       -       57      265      315      465      715
MLT loans (net)                        -830      822   1,756       769    1,278   2,773   5,536
Ortticial                               ..      ..       ..             2,198   3,231   ),546
P rivate                                ..      ..       ..              -920    -458      -1l
Other capital                            822   1,362   1,082    -787           0   1,143    -572
Change in net reserves ("- =
increase)                              708    -609    -490  -2,243   -1,945          0   1,353
International reserves                 6,283   6,892   7,382  10,096   12,041  12,041  18,164
of which:  gold                        ..       ..   5,120   5,120    5,120   5,120
Reserves as months imports               6.3     4.7      3.7      5.1      5.8      3.7      2.9
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                       ..
Concessional loans                      ..
DAC
OPEC                                  ..
IDA
Other
Nonconcessional loans                   ..
Official export credits               ..
]BRD /c                                *
Other multilateral                    ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          ..      ..   5,441   5,696
Offficial
E'rivate
Undisbursed debt                        ..      ..
Debt service
Total service payments
Interest                              ..      ..       ..
Payments as % exports GNFS              ..      ..      5.0     7.8
Average interest rate on new
loans (%)
AveraLge maturity of new loans
(years)



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1982)
Loan or
Credit                                                      Amounts ($ millions)
Number   Year       Borrower           Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
2021      1981   People's Republic   University
1167               of China              Development   100.0  100.0    199.7
1261/a   1982   People's Republic   Agricultural
of China             Development              60.0     60.0
Total                                 100.0  160.0    259.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA        100.0  160.0
Total undisbursed                     100.0  159.7    259.7
/a Became effective October 7, 1982.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1982)
None
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 2021    University Development Project; $100 Million Loan and
Credit No.1167   $100 Million Credit of November 4, 1981; Effective Date:
February 4, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Good progress has been made in project implementation; bid
evaluation and recommended awards for about $45 million in equipment have been
approved by the Bank. Initial disbursements for technical assistance (about
$300,000) have been made and a major contract for about $5 million in expert
services is awaiting final signature.
Credit No. 1261 North China Plain Agriculture Project; $60 Million Credit of
June 23, 1982; Effective Date: October 7, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
Project civil works began immediately after credit signature and are
well underway; other project works are also progressing on schedule.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
5AQING OILFIELD GAOTAIZI RESERVOIR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project           : One year
(b)  The project was prepared by    : The Government and the Bank
(c) Date of first presentation
to the Bank                   : June 1981
(d) Date of first mission to
consider the project          : September 1981
(e)  Appraisal mission                  February/March 1982
(f)  Completion of negotiations       :December 1982
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness         April 1983
Section III: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The State Council shall have approved the Loan Agreement and the
Project Agreement; and
(b) A satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement shall have been signed
between the Government and DPAB.
B. Conditions of Disburement
(a) the first three stages of the study on enhanced oil recovery be
completed and the findings reviewed with the Bank prior to any
disbursement for implementation of the field pilot application;
and



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) the study on process flow design and optimization of surface
facilities be completed, the findings reviewed and the plan agreed
upon with the Bank prior to any disbursement for the production
stations (para. 83).
C. Other Conditions
The Daqing Petroleum Administrative Bureau would:
(a) establish a Project Unit, headed by a Deputy Director, in the
project implementing agency (PCN1) by March 31, 1983 (para. 77);
(b) provide to the Bank project progress reports with agreed format
and content (para. 77);
(c) perform studies with the help of consultants on the following
fields of activity, review their results with the Bank, and
develop and implement agreed action plans: (i) Gaotaizi geology
and reservoir engineering; (ii) enhanced oil recovery; (iii)
process flow design and optimization of surface facilities; (iv)
drilling and completion practices; (v) training curricula and
teaching methods; and (vi) operational safety (paras. 78 and 79);
(d) consult with the Bank each year on PCNls current and future
finances (para. 87); and
(e) keep separate project accounts, have the project accounts and
PCN1 s accounts audited by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank, and submit financial statements and auditor's reports on
such accounts and audits to the Bank at agreed intervals (para.
88).



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
DAQING OILFIELD GAOTAIZI RESERVOIR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Petroleum Product Prices
Domestic
Interna-      prices
tional     as % of
Ex-refinery prices       Retail prices          prices /a      world
Ylton    $/ton       Y/ton       $/ton         ($/ton)       prices
Gasoline          590       327        800         444             340         130
Kerosene          420       233         680        377             330         114
Diesel            240       133         420        233             280          83
Fuel oil           55        30         85/b        47             160          29
LPG               230       128         300        167             350          48
Natural gas         -         -        2.9         1.6             4.0          40
(Y/MCF)    ($/MCF)       ($/MCF)/c
/a FOB Singapore price on March 29, 1982.
lb Assume transport cost, averaged at Y30/ton.
Ic In terms of Btu fuel oil equivalent.



I



- I\J 3 > 5 J> D g a 3 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(rp~ 
>                                    ?            >                                                       z 
r   Y        ]s                                                             ?             
0    X\Y                                          8'                                    (             /--\q;m -0 
: 'd<                          >   .      >         :z     ~  .                    t<'   ,!t m' 
+=~~~~ ~ ~~  FnF                   C                                   t              ~            c  -)r
r  b   o /(_   N w                        D               o t. '   X             \~LA 



