Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 9234
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1336-ZR)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
*                  Industry and Energy Division
Country Department III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Currency Unit - Zaires
Average 1983            US$1.00 =  30.12
Average 1984                       40.4.
Average 1985                       55.79
Average 1986                       71.10
Average 1987                      131.50
Average 1988                      274.00
Average 1989                      454.62
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30



FOR OFFMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORlD BANK
Washington. O C 20 433
USA
Offie 0t  OfecUtr-Cerwal
Operatmi Ivaluallon
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zaire
Gecamines Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1336-ZR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Zaire - Gecamines Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1336-ZR)' prepared by the Africa Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- ----



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1336-ZR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .           ..........................................................   i
Evaluation  Summary ...............................................   iii
PART  I   PROJECT  REVIEW FROM BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE  ...................                             1
Project  Identity  .................................................                                1
Background  .......................................................                                 1
Project  Objectives  and Descriptior. ...............................                               1
Project Design  and Organization ..................................                                 2
Project  Implementation  ...........................................                                2
Project  Results  ..................................................                                3
Project  Sustainability  ...........................................                                4
Bank Performance  .................................................                                 5
Borrower's  Performance  ...........................................                                5
Project Relationships  ............................................                                 6
Consulting  Services  and Contractors  ..................                          ...........      6
Project  Data  and Documentation  ...................................                               6
PART  II   PROJECT  REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  ....                         ..........    6
Overview  .........................................................                                 6
Results  in the Mining Area  .......................................                                7
Results  in Accounting and Finance  ................................                                8
Conclusions  and Lessons Learned ..................................                                 9
PART  III   STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  ................................    10
Related Bank Loans  or Credits  ...................................                                10
Project  Timetable  ...................................                                            10
Loan Disbursements  ...................................                                            11
Project Implementation ....................................  11
Project  Costs  and Financing  ...................................                                 12
Financial Impact ...................                                                               12
Status of Covenants ...................   13
Staff Inputs ...................                                ..                                 16
Missions ...................  17
This (tocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAIRE
GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1336-ZR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.        This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Gecamines
Technical Assistance Project, for which Credit 1336-ZR in the amount of 6.5
million SDR was anproved on March 22, 1983. The Credit was closed on
September 30, 1 .1, one year behind schedule.  The entire Credit was
disbursed except for 115,116.32 SDR.
2.        The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division
of the South Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Region (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and Gecamines (Part II). In addition,
Gecamines' reviewed the portion of the PCR drafted by the Bank, but had no
comments.
3.        Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in March 1988 and is based, inter alia,
on the Report and Recommendation to the Executive Directors for this
project; the Credit, Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1336-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        The objective of the project were to increase Gecamines'
efficiency by: 1) undertaking financial and engineering studies in order
to reduce costs; 2) strengthening Gecamines' management, especially in the
production, financial and marketing fields, and 3) laying the foundations
for a major rehabilitation project. The project had, in turn, two
components which consisted of: 1) technical studies, and 2) technical
assistance to the company in the production, marketing, financial,
organizational and legal areas (see paragraph 4).
2.        The greatest deviations between the planned and actual project
were that: 1) IDA funds were not used for all the components as had
originally been planned, and 2) the scope of the work in the financial area
was greatly expanded and included a considerable amount of related
improvements in accounting systems. IDA funds were used entirely for
technical assistance in the production and financial areas, while the other
components were self-financed by Gecamines.
3.        The overall project was successful since the considerable
success acnieved in the financial/accounting area more than compensated for
the more mixed results in the production area. Gecamines own estimate is
that improved cash management systems in the financial (Treasury) area
alone are saving the company about US$14 million per year compared to total
project costs in the financial and production areas, including both zaires
and foreign e-cchange, of about US$13 million (see Table 5). This project
also helped lay the groundwork for the current Gecamines Rehabilitation
Project.
4.        The major improvements in the financial/accounting area can be
sustained; but this will require willingness on the part of Gecamines and
the Government to keep in place the necessary conditions. In particular, a
small group of experienced expatriates will be required in high positions
in the finance and accounting areas of the company to monitor and control
the new systems until fully trained and experienced Zaireans are available
to replace them.



- iv -
5.       The main lesson to be learned from  the project is one the Bank is
well aware of, which is the considerable difficulty and time involved in
installing new procedures, systems and technologies in large, well-
established, inward-looking organizations in the less developed countries.
A second lesson is that in some cases for longer-term impact, it may be
more effective, though slower, to hire individual consultants and integrate
them into the existing management structure (as was done in the financial
area) than to hire a consulting firm and try to impose the firm's
consultants on the existing management structure as was done in the
production area of Gecamines (see paragraph 1l).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
GECAMINES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1336-ZR)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name:                  Gecamines Technical Assistance Project
Credit No:                      1336-ZR
RVP Unit:                      Africa
Country:                        Zaire
Sector:                        Industry
Subsector:                     Mining
B. Background
1.        The operations of Gecamines-Exploitation (Gecamines) are a key
area of the Zairean economy, with Gecamines accounting for about 55Z of
Zaire's exports and contributing about 252 of the Government's tax revenue.
A major official objective of the Government was, and is, to increase the
value added by Gecamines to the Zairean economy through increasing the
company's efficiency. This would allow the company to increase its tax
payments to the Government and to increase its net contributions to the
country's foreign exchange earnings. The Government accepted that one of
the most important means of increasing Gecamines' efficiency was for the
company to adopt improved systems and management procedures and that to do
this, outside technical assistance was required.
2.        At the time this project was undertaken (1983), the Zairean
economy was suffering from severe shortages of foreign exchange,
accelerating inflation and a large budget deficit. Therefore, this
project, designed to improve the operations of Gecamines and to make it
more efficient, formed an integral part of the overall effort to improve
the performance of the Zairean economy.
C. Project Objectives and Description
3.        The objectives of the project were to increase Gecamines'
efficiency by: (i) undertaking financial and engineering studies to form a
basis for improving the company's cost control; (ii) strengthening



Gecamines' management in areas where major weaknesses had been identified,
especially in the production, financial, marketing and legal fields; and
(iii) helping consolidate a reorganization which was then underway. In the
longer run, it was expected that this project would lay the foundation ior
a major rehabilitation project for the company.
4.        The project had two components.  The first component consisted
of three technical studies, while the second involved the provision of
technical assistance to the company in five different areas. The three
studies were: (a) a revaluation of Gecamines fixed assets and assessment
of the company's net worth; (b) an analysis of Gecamines overhead costs and
recommendations for major overhead cost reductions; and (c) an assessment
of Gecamines metallurgical operations to identify areas where technical
efficiency could be improved. Technical assistance was to be provided to
the company for: (a) improving open pit mining and maintenance operations
in the Western Group (which produces 80 of the company's copper) including
providing on-the-job training; (b) establishing a marketing department
within Gecamines; (c) reviewing the Finance Department's current operacing
procedures and development of a long-term financing strategy; (d)
strengthening Gecamines' management and helping it implement its
restructuring efforts; and (e) reviewing Gecamines contractual obligations
and assisting with the preparation of new contracts.
D. Project Design and Organization
5.        The project was clearly laid out and well designed.  Project
design was straightforward, in that it aimed at providing technical
assistance to Gecamines to improve various areas where managerial
performance was recognizably weak. The scope and scale of the project
were, however, modest compared to the magnitude of the problems faced by
the company.
6.        Project execution was almost entirely the responsibility of
Gecamines. This was carried out effectively though there were project
delays caused by: (i) a delay in Credit effectiveness; and (ii) the
process of hiring consultants using the Bank's guidelines.
E. Project Implementation
7.        The greatest deviations between the planned and actual project
execution were that IDA funds were not used for all the components as had
originally been planned while, on the other hand, the scope of the work
undertaken in the financial area was greatly expanded. Gecamines paid foi
the three studies itself, because of its desire to get these studies done
rapidly and its concern about the delays involved in using IDA funds.
Also, Gecamines self-financed both the technical assistance for marketing
and for contractual obligations. The IDA funds were used almost entirely
to pay for technical assistance to Western Group production operations and
in the financial area.  The latter category,, however, was broadened to
include a considerable part of the technical assistance program for
strengthening management. In addition, the scope of work undertaken in the
financial area went far beyond the initial project description, and to good
effect. (See paras. 8 and 9 below).



8.        The original planned level of assistance to the Finance
Department was modest consisting of 24 man-months of consultants' time to
review current procedures and provide general assistance in the areas of
financial planning, liquid Fssets management and investment programming.
This activity was budgeted at US$510,000 equivalent. In fact, when the
work began on the rinancial area, it was '.und that the accounting systems
at Gecamines were outmoded, unreliable and inconsistent. This is amply
demonstrated by the report of Gecamines auditors, Coapers and Lybrand, on
Gecamines 1983 financial statements which has three pages of -ualifications
to the reported financial statements commenting on various dericiencies and
inconsiitencies. In order for the company to improve its financial
management, it had to have reliable accounting data, so a great deal of
technical assistance was provided for imnroving the accounts as well as for
financial management in general. This effort n.ot only consisted of hiring
consultants full time, but also studies carried out by various outside
specialists as well as the use of modern softwa-e (paid for by Gecamines).
In the Treasury area itself, there was a major reorganization and the
adoption of modern software and telecommunication links.
F. Project Results
9.        The overall project was successful since the considerable
success in the financial and accounting area compensated for the more mixed
results in the production area and in terms of achieving some of the
company's broader objectives. Gecamines' own estimate is that improved
cash management systems in the financial (Treasury) area alone are saving
them about US$14 million per year. From the data available to IDA, it
appears that this estimate of savings is reasonable since the company's
return on financial assets went from 2.1: in 1983 to 7.32 in 1987 (worth
US$5 million at an annual rate) while its borrowing costs went from 112 to
8.2% over the same time period (worth S$12 million at an annual rate but
not necessarily entirely attributable to the project since in some
currencies, including the dollar, interest rates eased). This savings
should be compared to total project costs of about US$13 million (including
local currency) for the two components partially financed by IDA (see
Table 5). Thus, the rate of return on this project from the savings in the
financial area alone is over 1002 (see Table 6 for one estimate).  In
addition, the improvements in the company's accounts are undoubtedly
leading to further savings, though no estimate has been made of this.
These accounts were sufficiently improved that by 1988, Coopers and Lybrand
had reduced their qualifications of Gecamines' annual financial statements
to one factor: possible back taxes due for 1983-88 on sales of food to its
workers. Moreover, this qualification was removed for the 1989 financial
statements. While not all of the improvement in the company's accounts
occurred during the technical assistance project, 1983-87, a substantial
part of it did occur during this time period and in any case the
improvement can reasonably be attributed to measures undertaken and
individuals hired during the technical assistance project.
10.       The other major component of this project financed by IDA, was
assistance to Gecamines' Western Group in order to improve open pit mining
and maintenance operations, and provide on-the-job training. This



assistance was only partially successful. The consultant was effectively
put in cnarge of the Western Group with the objective of increasing output
which was achieved (see para. 23). However, the increase in output (cubic
meters) between the starting year, 1984, and the fir.al year, 1987, was only
about 82 which was far less than planned and was accomplished only with a
considerable increase in mining equipment. On the other hand, 1987 was
apparently a difficult year because of the rainy season and if the final
year is take  as 1986 instead, the consultant's performance is considerably
better with an increase in output of 17Z. Also, the consultant had a very
difficult job trying to run a large mining operation with its own small
group of expatriates who were not necessarily supported by the much larger
group of Zairean  .d expatriate managers who were in the Western Group
before the consult .nt arrived. In any case, the longer term impact of the
consultant on the Western Group appears to be very limited.
11.       The modest results of the technical assistance contract for the
Western Group raises the issues of: (1) whether the technical assistance
arrangement with the consulting firm coula have been designed better, and
(2) whether, more generally, a contract with an outside consulting firm is
the best method of providing technical assistance aimed at improving
operations. On the first issue, the size of the consulting contract may
have been insufficient relative to the size of the task. This was a
limited consulting contract (US$4.6 million over three years) relative to
the size of Gecamines Western Group (80? of Gecamines copper production),
especially given the lack of support from the existing management of the
Western Group. The consultants were not able to win this support and could
not operate effectively without it. On the second issue, it is possible
that the hiring of individuals and their integration into the existiLig
Gecamines mvnagement team, its was done in the financial area, might have
worked better. This would have taken longer but might have created less of
a problem with existing management. Also, the company would have had
better control over both the quality of the people hired and their
compatibility with the Gecamines' corporate culture. However, there can be
no certainty that this would have worked either.
12.       In terms of the broader objectives of the Credit as described in
paragraph 3, the project was a modest success. In part, based on the work
done under the Technical Assistance Credit, a major rehabilitation project
for the company was prepared in 1986 and was then finauced by the Bank,
ADB, EIB, EEC and Caisse Centrale. The company's reorganization was
consolidated and management strengthened not only in the financial area but
also in the marketing and the legal areas. However, in spite of the cost
savings achieved in the financial area, the company's overall costs did not
decrease as planned.
G. Project Sustainability
13.       Although there is always a risk concerning the sustainability of
the project results in the longer term, it will still have been worthwhile
undertaking since it has paid for itself several times over by now.
Nevertheless, the major improvements in the financial and accounting area
should be sustainable though it will require a willingness on the part of
Gecamines and the Government to sustain them. In particular, a small group



5 -
of experienced expatriates will be requiree in high positions in the
finance and accounting areas of Gecamines to monitor and control the new
systems until fully trained and experienced Zaireans are available to
replace them. Gecamines has so far shown a desire to sustain the progress
made and has replaced the top expatriate in this area, who leit for family
reasons, with another very experienced expatriate.
14.       In addition, Gecamines in 1988 requested from IDA a new
technical assistance project which is now under implenentation. This new
project will continue and complement some of the work in the accounting
area which was begun under the previous project but not completed, and
begin new work in other areas of Gecamines' operations. The key area of
concentrarion for the new project will be Gecamines procurement procedures
which are currently inefficient and where major cost savings can be "lade.
H. Bank Performance
15.       Bank performance during the project was good.  The appraisal was
well done, with only one obvious weakness in retrospect which is that the
problems with Gecamines accounting and financial systems were much greater
than anticipated. The Bank sent regular supervision missions to Gecamines
in Lubumbashi to visit and review the mine and plant operations. An active
and extensive dialogue was carried on with the company. The Bank was alert
to the underlying problem of rent seeking by other groups in Zaire and
assisted in trying to protect the company frc this behavior. There does
appear to have been a pattern of using various outside technical
consultants rather than a single Bank engineer to carry out technical
supervision which created a lack of continuity. On the other hand, some of
the outside consultants were very good and added significantly to the
dialogue.
16.       The main lesson to be learned from this project is one the Bank
is well aware of, which is the considerable difficulty and time involved in
installing new proceduires, systems and technologies in large, well-
established, inward-looking, organizations in the less developed countries.
These organizations are quite resistant to change not only because they are
somewhat isolated, but also because the risks from a change that fails are
very high for both management and the cnuntry. A second lesson from this
project, which may be less obvious, is the high payoff from improved
financial systems unrelated to any reduction in operating costs.
I. Borrower's Performance
17.       Since this was an IDA Credit, the official borrower was the
Government of Zaire which on-lent the borrowed funds to Gecamines. The
Government's role was an ambivalent one. On the one hand, it wanted to
increase the efficiency of the company, but had little or no technical or
administrative capacity to oversee or even monitor the company's
operations. On the other hand, it was anxious to increase the amount of
rent it extracted from the company both through official channels (taxes,
dividends, payments in kind) and unofficially. These two goals were not
always consistent. Vnile it is true that a higher level of efficiency
would allow greater rent extraction, too high a level of rent extraction in



- 6 -
the short term would reduce the funds available for required investments
and thereby have a negative impact or. the efficiency and output of the
company over the longer term. Part of the role of the Bank was to ensure
the Government's awareness of this last point. Gecamines' top management
supported and encouraged this project in spite of a certain amount of
passive resistance at the middle management le-el. If top management had
been willing to take greater political risks by hiring more outside
experts, the project could have been carried out more rapidly. However,
this could have also misfired and it is difficult for an outsider to
evaluate the political risks involved.
J. Project Relationships
18.       Project relationships have been largely covered in the previous
sections. Bank/Gecamines relationships were very good and constructive.
Bank/Government relations were also good but the duality of objectives on
the part of the Government, mentioned above, made goal setting more
difficult.
K. Consulting Services and Contractors
19.       The performance of consultants was quite varied.  Some of them
did excellent jobs while the performance of others was below expectations.
In general, most of the individuals in the financial area seem to have done
very well. The performance of the consultant to Gecamines' Western Group
was below expectations as is indicated in para. 10 above. However, those
expectations were quite high and the company was operating under difficult
conditions. In addition, Gecamines' comments that the goals it assigned to
this consultant may not have been totally clear. Altogether, there are
reasons for the consultant's under-perfornance, but whether these reasons
are sufficient to explain the under-performance is unclear.
L. Project Data and Documentation
20.       The conditions in the Credit Agreement (see Table 7) were quite
strong, especially considering the relatively small amount of funds
involved in this Credit. However, these conditions were important for
Gecamines' financial situation and to help prepare the company for the
ensuing major rehabilitation project. The report and recommendation to the
Executive Directors was extensive and provided a useful framework for
review of project implementation. Other project documentation was
generally adequate and a useful project completion report was prepared by
Gecamines.



PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
21.       An evaluation report on the project was prepared by Gecamines.
The company did not follow the Bank's desired format and the evaluation
report is in French. The paragraphs below summarize the main points made
by Gecamines. The full text of Gecamines' evaluation is available on file
in the Department.
A. Overview
22.        "All of the studies and technical assistance foreseen in the
project were implemented by different consulting groups in agreement with
the defined objectives"...'However, because of the delay in effectiveness
of the Credit Agreement, Gecamines self-financed all of the studies. As a
result of this, the IDA Credit was used only for technical assistance to
the mine operations of the Western Production Group (Siege de Kolwezi-
Mines) and the reorganization of the financial function."
B. Results in the Mining Area
23.        "The overall results of the assistance in mining to the Western
Group can be summarized as follows:
(a)  Production, as measured by cubic meters excavated, went up
significantly between 1984 and 1986;
(b)  However, this result is less impressive if one compares the
results achieved against the annual production objectives and if
one also takes into account the new equipment provided by
Gecamines during this period;
(c)  In the training area, there was some improvement in the approach
adopted to tackling technical problems. On the other hand,
practical training was insufficient because of the behavior, and
attitudes of certain of the "consultants" employees."
24.        'The actual achievements (of the Western Mining Group) relative
to the plan for the years 1984 to 1987 are summarized in the following
figures:
Cubic Meters of Earth Uov6d
('000)
1984    1986    1986    1987
Planned                         31,000   34,000   38,000   38,000
Actual (Western Mining Group)   26,720   26,210   30,160   27,830
Outside Contractor                780    1,290   3.260   3.620
Total                        28,600   27,600   33,400   31,450
% achieved by SKM (Western
Mining Group) by itsolf         83%      77%     79%      73%



"The improvement in results is significant between 1984 e: 1986, however,
it should be noted that the (total) figures include the 1JLoduction achieved
by an independent outside contractor and that this share increased over the
course of the period.  The results in 1987 deteriorated in part because
rains were particularly heavy during the first four months of that year."
25.       "From among the many technical factors which influenced the
achievements of the Western Mining Group while the consultant was in place,
the following overall conclusions can be drawn:
Organization of Maintenance
(a) The results achieved were poor for the basic equipment, shovels
and trucks, especially taking into account the new equipment put
into service. The improvement in (maintenance) ratios was
limited to the year 1985; overall the (maintenance) ratios were
at the same level in 1987 as in 1984.
Organization of Mining
(b) The utilization factor for shovels significantly increased, on
the other hand the efficiency of the shovels - hourly output -
decreased.
(c) The utilization factor for the trucks - dispatch - remained at a
fairly high level, but the impact of the consultant was tempered
by the major impact of climatic changes. Actions taken (such
as) the reduction in transport distances, better filling of the
trucks and improvements in haul roads, made a significant
contribution to the solution of the transport problem.
(d) Some new ideas were implemented with various results. In
particular, there was: (1) the beginning of a capacity to
choose ore based on drilling cuttings; (2) the creation of a
capacity to prepare areas to be mined based on topographical
drilling results; and (3) the introduction of explosive
emulsions.
Other areas were disregarded or experienced little practical or enduring
improvements, for example: (1) there was little progress in mine planning;
(2) little headway was made in dewatering the pits; and (3) new
technologies introduced by Gecamines, such as hydraulic shovels and trolley
assist for the trucks, were practically ignored."
C. Results in Accounting and Finance
26.        "The principal activities relative to the reorganization of the
accounting area are summarized as follows: (a) the introduction of new
systems began in the accounts payable area, the old system was especially
deficient and urgently required modernization to recover control of
accounts payable, where control had been partially lost over time" ...(b)
"the replacement of the former general ledger in zaires" ... by " modules
of the MacCormack gene.al ledger accounting system" ... "Currently, the



MacCormack system is handling on an interactive basis all the operations
previously treated manually with a batch system" ...(c) introduction of "an
international general ledger system" ... 'It is a new system for the
company. It should permit the monthly production of financial statements
in an international currency and following an international format" ...(d)
"it was agreed to begin the development of cost accounting with three pilot
projects.ff
27.       "The reorganization of the Treasury (finance) function had as
its goal the improvement in the management of foreign exchange and local
financial assets; the reduction in the cost of lines of credit and the
expansion of these lines as needed by the company; the diversification of
short-, medium- and long-term sources of financing; and improvement in
procedures for recovering credits, paying taxes and settling accounts
payable.". . ."AAn outside expert was hired to review the internal
organization and put into place appropriate procedures. This review
resulted in creating: (a) a financing division charged with coordinating
... and management of resources from financings" ...(b) "a division of
payments and funds management whose role is to improve the returns from
financial assets.. .and assure interface with the banks... " (c) "an
operating unit for international Treasury management located in Brussels
and responsible for contacts with international financial markets..." (d)
"a risk management unit to coordinate and centralize control over the
insurance portfolio..." (e) "a tax unit."
28.       "In order to permit the development of an overview of the
systems and procedures needed by the Treasury function, it was decided to
have the Global Cash Management Group of CITIBANK undertake a study which
should result in new Treasury systems and procedures. The conclusions of
this study permitted the identification of the principal sectors where
reorganization should produce significant gains for the company. A new
computer system call TRESYS was developed and put into service both in
Zaire and Brussels..."  "In addition, a new system of placing funds in
foreign exchange and local currency was developed. In total, the
improvements in systems resulted in gains evaluated at US$12 million at an
annual rate of which US$2 million were from placements in zaires.n
29.        "Contacts with foreign banks were pursued in order to review
commissions and interest charges on the loans obtained from these banks.
As a result, the average margin on all loans was reduced to less than 2Z
above LIBOR, where as previously it had been on average more than 4Z above
LIBOR. In addition, the complete revision of relations with the banks as
well as the management of bank accounts represents potential gains of more
than US$2 million at an annual rate."
30.        "In order to eliminate the monopoly held by certain foreign
banks and as a result to strengthen the negotiating position of the
company, it was decided to diversify the short term financing sources of
the company at the same time obtaining better terms. Therefore, new lines
of credit were put into place notably with Credit Lyonnais (US$10 million)
and BNP (US$10 million) for imports, and Belgolaise (US$15 million) and
American Express (US$25 million) for exports ..." "As far as long term
financing is concerned, negotiations resulted in finauicing from the World



- 10 -
Bank (US$110 million), the ADB (59.8 million units), Caisse Centrale (200
million FF), EIB (50 million ECU) and EEC (30 million ECU). In addition,
the export financing agencies of the countries in which the company makes
its purchases were contacted and resulted in various loans..."
D. Conclusions and Lessons Learned
31.       Western Group Mining.  'In general, the technical assistance
provided by the consultant combined with the equipment purchases of
Gecamines caused an improvement in performance. However, the results
obtained were lower than the planned objectives (less than 80? of plan).
The conclusions to be drawn from this experience may be the following:
(a) the consultant did not adequately diagnose the reasons for the
poor performance (of the mines);
(b) (there was) insufficient discipline in developing and
implementing solutions, which were too numerous and tried with
insufficient selectivity;
(c) as a result, remedies were applied which were poorly adapted to
the particular technical conditions and the local environment;
(d) a choice of certain persons (was made by the consultant) who did
not show the desired level of competence or comportment, in
among other areas, the training area;
(e) Gecamines did not specify precisely enough the objectives to be
reached in order to obtain the goals.'
32.       Finance and Accounting.  "The actions taken within the framework
of the IDA financing were widely beneficial for the company. The
improvements in systems and procedures resulted in the introduction of
reliable systems for both controlling costs and management of financial
assets. It thus contributed to an increased ability to track the
profitability of the company. The revision in management methods in the
Treasury area resulted in gains estimated at a number of millions of
dollars. Consolidation and development of these methods may lead to even
larger gains by allowing the company to follow and adapt to the evolution
of international financial markets.'



- 11 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit                                          Year of
Title                       Purpose              Approval       Status
Loan 1090-ZR
Gecamines Expansion           Expand production
Project                       capacity                    1975       Completed
Loan 2682-ZR
Gecamines Rehabilitation      Maintain production
Project                       increase efficiency         1986         Ongoing
Credit 2051-ZR
Second Gecamines Technical
Assistance Project            Reduce costs                1989         Ongoing
2. Project Timetable
Date                  Date                 Date
Item                   Planned               Revised              Actual
Identification                1982                                        1982
Preparation                   1982                                        1982
Appraisal Mission             09/82                   N/A                09/82
Loan Negotiation              02/83                                      02/83
Board Approval                03/83                    -                 03/83
Loan Signature                06/83                  10/83               10183
Loan Effectiveness            07/83                  01/84               06/84
Loan Closing                  09/86                  09/87               09/87
Project Completion            12/85                  12/86               12/87



- 12 -
3. Loan Disbursements
(SDR Thousands)
------------------FY-_____________
1984      1985       1986       1987       1988
Estimated                     3,157      2,414        929       0          0
Cumulative Estimated          3,157      5,571     6,500        0          0
Actual                          0        1,949      1,715     1,498      1,223
Cumulative Actual               0        1,949     3,664      5,162      6,385
Note:  115,116.32 SDR of Credit was cancelled.
4.  Project Implementation
Indicators               Appraisal Estimate              Actual/PCR Estimate
Available Funds                      1                                1
Project Management                   1                                2
Development Impact                   1                                1
Overall Status                       1                                1



- 13 -
5. Prolect Costs and Financing
(US8 million)
Appraisal Estimate                              Actual
Local      Foreign                     Local    Foreign
Item                      Costs      Exchange    Total           Costs    Exchange     Total
A. Studies
1.  Asset Revaluation              266          576        830                                   1/
2.  Overhead reduction             170          390        660                                   1/
3. Engineering                     29R          980      1,276                                   1/
B. Consultant Services
1.  Production                     806        2,723      3,529           2,068      4,621      6,687
2. Marketing                        70          220        290             -                     1/
3.  Financial                      140          370        510           2,169      4,220      6,389
4.  Organization                   164          240        404                                   1/
5.  Legal                            6          464        460                                   1/
1/ Entirely financed by Cocamines (see pars. 7).
6. Financial Impact
Financial Rate of Return                                 140Z 1/
1/ Assumes financial savings last 7 years and ignores impact
of improved accounting on costs and any impact of outside
consultant on production. Also, assumes gradual build up
of financial savings during 1984-1986.



- 14 -
7. Status of Covenants
Status of
Covenant              Subject                Compliance         Comment
Yes No Other
Project
1. Agreement
2.0,(f)   Gecamines to prepare its
part of PCR                       x
3.02      Gecamines shall maintain                         SOZACOM
a monitoring unit at                             abolished.
SOZACOM's offices                          x    Gecamines
has such a
unit in
Lubumbashi
3.05      Gecamines shall, at               x              Gecamines
regular intervals,                               Commerciale
exchange views with the                          now performs
Association, the Borrower                        SOZACOM's
and SOZACOM on the                               role and
marketing agreement.                             exchanges
views with
IDA and
Gecamines
Credit
2. Agreement
4.01      The Borrower shall insure         x              No further
that the products of                             uncompen-
Gecamines be commercia-                          sated sales
lized only through normal                        occurred
marketing channels and
that clearing, barter,
security or other
transactions be entered
into only if:
(a) the proposed tran-
saction is compa-
tible with the 1975
joint Financing
Agreement;



- 15 -
Status of
Covenant              Subject                Compliance        Comment
Yes No Other
(b) such transaction
result in prompt
full and effective
payment of the fair
market value of the
production;
(c) such payment is made
in foreign exchange.
4.02      The Borrower shall, in            x              Uncompen-
accordance with a time-                         sated sales
table acceptable to the                         were repaid
Association, reimburse to
Gecamines the amounts not
deposited as a result of
any previous barter security
or other transactions which
have not resulted in prompt
payment to Gecamines in
accordance with appropriate
commercial practices.
4.03      The Borrower shall take all       x
measures necessary to
ensure that: (a) amounts
due from the sales of
Gecamines' products are
credited to the account of
Gecamines; and (b) Gecamines
exercises full and effec-
tive control over the
marketing operations for
its products and related
transactions.
4.05      The Borrower shall furnish        x
to the Association any
proposals for the amendment
of the tax system applied
to Gecamines and allow the
Association a reasonable
period of time to comment
thereon.



- 16 -
Status of
Covenant              Subject                Compliance        Comment
Yes  No  Other
4.06      The Borrower specifically         x
undertakes, whenever there
is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds
available to Gecamines will
be inadequate to meet the
expenditures required for
the conducting of its
operations in accordance
with Section 3.01 of the
Project Agreement, to make
arrangements satisfactory
to the Association, promptly
to provide to Gecamines or
cause Gecamines to be pro-
vided with sufficient
foreign exchange or Zaires
(whichever may be required)
to meet such expenditures.



- 17 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs (s.w.)
________________________--- FY --------------------------
83      84        85       86       87        88     Total
Pre-Appraisal        2.1        -        -        -        -        -        2.1
Appraisal           19.2        -        -        -         -       -       19.2
Negotiation          3.4        -        -        -         -       -        3.4
Supervision          9.1    24.1      15.3      9.3     10.1      9.5       77.4
Total             33.7    24.1      15.3      9.3     10.1      9.5     102.0



8. B. Missions
Stage of                     Number of   Days in                            Performance         Types of
Project Cycle   Month/Year    Persons        Field      Specialization 1/   Rating Status 2/   Problems 3/
Preparation       06/82          2            3        L, 0
Appraisal         09/82          3           13        L, F, F                     -
Supervision       10/83          2           10        F, F, C, C               12/1              S, C, U
02/84          2            4       F, C                       N/A             U, S, Pi
04/84          3            7       F, F, R                    N/A             S, Pi, U
06/84          2            7       0, 0                       N/A             U, S
09/84          3            7       C, C, E                    112             S, L, C
01(85          2            8       F, C                       N/A             C, O
10/85          1            7       L                          N/A                N/A
11/85          1            7       0                          N/A                E
06/86          2          10        M, E, C                  1/2/1/2           D, U            I
01/87          5          16        M, E, C, C, 0            1/2/1/2           D, U
04/87          2            9       M, E                     1/2/1/2           D
10/87          2          10        M, E                     1/2/1/2           D
Completion        03/88          3            6       M, E, T                  1/2/1/2            D
1/  M = Mining Engineer, E = Economist, T = Training Specialist, C = Engineering Consultant,
0 = Other, L = Loan Officer, F = Financial Analyst, R = Research Assistant.
2/ Through 1985, Performance Rating is Status/Trend, thereafter ratings follow the revised
Form 590 - Available Funds/Project Management/Development Impact/Overall Status.
3/  D   Delays, U = Uncompensated Sales, C = Consultants Performance, S = Control of Sales,
P1 = Planning, L = Loans to Government, 0 = Organization, E = Environment.



