OFFICIAL
FFrICå~ CREDIT NUMBER 1336 ZR
DOCU ME NTS
*              Development Credit Agreement
(Gecamines Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                          , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1336 ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       ,-AC, 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) any financing so provided by the Association would be
refunded, if the Association so requests, out of the proceeds of
any credit by the Association or loan by the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development which may later be granted to
the Borrower (or any political subdivision thereof, or any enter-
prise owned or controlled by the Borrower) or to LA GENERALE DES
CARRIERES ET DES MINES (hereinafter called GECAMINES) for a
rehabilitation project;
(C) the Project will be carried out by GECAMINES with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to GECAMINES the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(D) pursuant to an agreement, dated March 8, 1975, relating
to the financing of a mining 'expansion project, entered into
between GECAMINES, the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank and the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter
called the 1975 Joint Financing Agreement, Loan No. 1090 ZR)
funds were lent to GECAMINES for the financing of the project
*        described in Schedule 2 thereto; and
(E) the 1975 Joint Financing Agreement was subsequently
amended by an agreement, dated November 16, 1979, (hereinafter
called the 1979 Amending Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
GECAMINES;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Condi-_ ions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and GECAMINES of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and GECAMINES pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement;
(c)  "GECAMINES" means La Generale des Carrires et des
Mines, a public enterprise organized and operating pursuant to
the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 78-209, dated May 5, 1978 and the
Borrower's Loi No. 78-002, dated January 6, 1978, (which for pur-
poses of this Agreement shall be referred to collectively as the
"GECAMINES Statutes"), as such Ordonnance or Loi may be amended
from time to time;
(d)  "SOZACOM" means the Societe Zairoise de Commerciali-
sation des Minerais, a public enterprise organized and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 78-208, dated May 25,
1978 and the Borrower's Loi No. 78-002, dated January 6, 1978, as
such Ordonnance or Loi may be amended from time to time;


﻿(e) "Marketing Agreement" means the Convention de Commer-
cialisation des Produits Miniers de la Gecamines, dated August 6,
1982, between GECAMINES and SOZACOM, as such Agreement may be
amended from time to time;
(f) "Zaires" or "Z" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(g)  "foreign exchange" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to   six million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 6,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn.
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable ,cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and GECAMINES of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably   request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement


﻿-4-
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1993, and ending October 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. GECAMINES is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause GECAMINES to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable GECAMINES to per-
form such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any   action  which   would  prevent   or  interfere   with  such
performance.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
GECAMINES under a subsidiary loan agreement ("Subsidiary Loan
Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and GECAMINES
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association which
shall provide, inter alia, for the following:
(i)  the repayment by GECAMINES of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to GECAMINES over a period of ten
years, including three years grace, and the pay-
ment of interest at 10.97% per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time;
(ii) the payment by GECAMINES to the Borrower of the
commitment charge as and when due to the Associa-
tion pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement;
and
(iii) the bearing by GECAMINES of the risk of fluctua-
tions in the values of currencies so relent to
GECAMINES.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit and, except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4,01. The Borrower shall ensure that the products of
GECAMINES be commercialized only through normal marketing chan-
nels and that clearing, barter, security or other transactions be
entered into only if:
(a) the proposed transaction is compatible with the objec-
tives of the arrangements existing pursuant to Section 17.04 of
the 1975 Joint Financing Agreement;
(b) such transaction results in prompt, full and effective
payment in the normal course of business to or for GECAMINES'
account of the fair market value of the products included in the
transaction; and


﻿-6-
(c) such payment is made in the foreign exchange necessary
to carry out Section 17.04 of the 1975 Joint Financing Agreement
and Section 4.06 of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the Association, reimburse to GECAMINES the amounts
of foreign exchange and Zaires not deposited as of the date of
this Agreement in an account in the name of GECAMINES as a result
of any previous barter, security or other transactions which have
not resulted in prompt payment to GECAMINES in Zaires and foreign
exchange in accordance with appropriate commercial practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that: (a) amounts due from the sales of GECAMINES' pro-
ducts are credited to the account of GECAMINES; (b) GECAMINES
exercises full and effective control over the marketing opera-
tions for its products and related transactions; and (c) GECA-
MINES participates in the establishment and implementation of the
marketing policy for its products.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall participate in the
regular exchange of views referred to in Section 3.05 of the
Project Agreement and shall, as and when necessary, cause SOZA-
COM, the Bank of Zaire and any other agency or entity under its
control which is involved in the marketing, sales or transfer of'
funds in connection with GECAMINES' products to participate in
such exchange of views.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that GECAMINES and SOZACOM fulfill their respective
obligations under the Marketing Agreement and shall act promptly
in response to any proposal by GECAMINES in accordance with
Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement for the amendment of said
Agreement. Prior to taking any action, pursuant to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any
proposal for a substantial modification of the applicable
legislation or other arrangements or procedures under which
Gecamines' products are marketed, amounts due for said products
are paid and the resulting fund transfers are made.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
any proposals for the amendment of the tax system applied to
GECAMINES and allow the Association a reasonable period of time
to comment thereon.


﻿7
Section 4.06. Without any limitation to or restriction on
its obligations as set out in Chapter XXI of the 1975 Joint
Financing Agreement and Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement the
Borrower specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds available to GECAMINES will be
inadequate to meet the expenditures required for the conducting
of its operations in accordance with Section 3.01 of the Project
Agreement, to make arrangements satisfactory to the Association,
promptly to provide to GECAMINES or cause GECAMINES to be pro-
vided with sufficient foreign exchange or Zaires (whichever may
be required) to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) GECAMINES shall have failed to perform any of its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower or GECAMINES shall have failed to perform
any of their respective obligations under the 1975 Joint Financ-
ing Agreement and the 1979 Amending Agreement;
(c) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
GECAMINES will be able to perform its obligations under the Pro-
ject Agreement;
(d) a representation made by GECAMINES in or pursuant to
the Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection
therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Association in
making the Credit, shall have been incorrect in any material
respect;
(e) GECAMINES' Statutes or any other law or regulation
governing the organization or operation of GECAMINES shall have
been amended, suspend.d, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the operations or financial con-
dition of GECAMINES or its ability to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;


﻿-8-
(f)  the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GECAMINES or for the suspension of its operations; and
(g) the Marketing Agreement shall have been amended, abro-
gated, assigned or waived so as to affect materially and ad-
versely the operations or financial condition of GECAMINES, or
GECAMINES' control over the marketing of its products, or over
its sales receipts, or GECAMINES' ability to carry out its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.1. of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and GECAMINES; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (e), (f) or (g) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and GECAMINES;
(b) a revised tax system applicable to GECAMINES and
acceptable to the Association, has come into full force and
effect;
(c) the Association has been furnished with GECAMINES'
audited accounts for calendar year 1982 and other evidence
satisfactory to the Association giving up-to-date information of
amounts due to GECAMINES for uncompensated sales; and
(d) the timetable referred to in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement has been furnished to the Association.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by GECAMINES, and is legally binding upon GECAMINES in
accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and GECAMINES and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and GECAMINES in accordance
with its terms; and
(c)  that the Marketing Agreement has been duly authorized
by GECAMINES and -SOZACOM and is legally binding upon GECAMINES
and SOZACOM in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date   V'i:e      .3/   /    L          is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 through 4.05 of this Agreement and the provis,ons of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Commissaire d'Etat Charge des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Botte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                        Telex:
DENFIN                             21161 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          ,{f)      Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories' of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Cateo y                            SDR Equivalent)
(1) Studies                                 1,790,000
(2) Consultants'                            3,690,000
Services                        .
(3) Unallocated                             1,020,000
TOTAL     6,500,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 830,000, may be made in respect of Category (1)
on account of expenditures made before that date but after
September 1, 1982; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may,


﻿- 12 -
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred      to  in  this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist GECAMINES in prepar-
ing a rehabilitation program designed to strengthen its manage-
ment and ensure its long-term financial viability.    The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Studies
1.   A revaluation of GECAMINES' fixed assets and assessment of
GECAMINES' net worth.
0$         2.   A study of GECAMINES' overhead costs and recommendations for
major overhead cost reductions.
3.   A technical study on GECAMINES' metallurgical operations to
identify areas where technical efficiency can be improved.
Part B:   Consultants Services
1.   Technical assistance to GECAMINES in its open pit mining and
maintenance operations at Kolwezi to increase productivity
and provide on-the-job training.
2.   Establishment of a Marketing Department within GECAMINES to
increase its role in the commercialization of its products.
3.   Review of the Finance Department's current procedures and
establishment of a long-term financing strategy.
4.   Organization and training assistance to consolidate GECA-
MINES' management and implement its restructuration and
training efforts.
*            5.   Review of GECAMINES' contractual obligations, especially in
marketing, and assistance with the preparation of new
contracts.
4
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the o         day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


