                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR2735



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (TF-93076)



                                          ON

                                        GRANTS

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 34.0 MILLION AND

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                          FOR

            DECENTRALIZED MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
                        AND RENEWABLE ENERGY



                                      June 24, 2013




Indonesia Social Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 2013)

                                Currency Unit = Rupiah
                               IDR1.00 = US$0.000103
                                 US$1.00 = IDR9,730

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 – December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing
BAPPENAS Badan Perencanaan dan Pembangunan Nasional (National Development
         Planning Agency)
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CDD      Community-Driven Development
CSO      Civil Society Organization
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
GoI      Government of Indonesia
GTZ      Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Agency for Technical
         Cooperation)
IBRD     The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDR      Indonesian Rupiah
KDP      Kecamatan Development Project
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
M&E      Monitoring and evaluation
MHP      Micro-Hydro Power
MIS      Management Information System
NRM      Natural Resource Management
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
OWT      Operation Wallacea Trust
PDO      Project Development Objective
PMD      Pemberdayaan Masyarakat dan Desa (Directorate for Community and Village
         Empowerment)
PNPM     Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat (National Community
         Empowerment Program)
PSF      PNPM Support Facility
RE       Renewable Energy
RI       Result Indicator
TSU      Technical Support Unit
WCS      Wildlife Conservation Society
UPP      Urban Poverty Project



                                        ii
      Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
    Country Director: Stefan G. Koeberle
     Sector Manager: Jan Weetjens
Project Team Leader: Chloe Olliver
   ICR Team Leader: Susanne Holste




                  iii
                                   INDONESIA
                 DECENTRALIZED MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
                             AND RENEWABLE ENERGY



                                                           CONTENTS


Data Sheet

   A.   Basic Information.................................................................................................... v
   B.   Key Dates ................................................................................................................ v
   C.   Ratings Summary .................................................................................................... v
   D.   Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................... vi
   E.   Bank Staff .............................................................................................................. vi
   F.   Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................. vi
   G.   Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................ ix
   H.   Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................. x
   I.   Disbursement Profile .............................................................................................. x

   1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................... 1
   2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 7
   3.   Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................... 11
   4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................... 15
   5.   Assessment of Bank and Grantee Performance .................................................... 15
   6.   Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 17
   7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors........... 18

   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................ 20
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................ 21
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................... 25
   Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..... 26
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................... 28
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................. 32
   Annex 7. Grantee's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR ............................................... 33
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers .......................................................................... 37
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 39
   Annex 10. PNPM Green Trust Funds and WBS Elements ......................................... 40

   MAP




                                                                 iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Cofinancing Grant to
                                                                           PNPM for Decentralized
Country:                Indonesia                Project Name:             Management of Natural
                                                                           Resources and Renewable
                                                                           Energy
Project ID:             P112632                  L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-93076
ICR Date:               06/24/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Grantee:
                                                                           INDONESIA
Original Total
                        USD 16.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 30.68M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 34.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Directorate General of Village Community Empowerment (PMD) Ministry of Home Affairs
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
 Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
 The Danish International Development Agency

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
      Process             Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/06/2008     Effectiveness:             12/24/2008           12/24/2008
Appraisal:                            Restructuring(s):                               01/13/2012
Approval:              10/15/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2012           12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings             Borrower                      Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                              Government:                 Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately             Implementing                Moderately Satisfactory


                                             v
                             Unsatisfactory              Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                 Moderately                  Overall Borrower
                                                                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                 Unsatisfactory              Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                      Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                               Quality at Entry
                               No                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                    (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                             Quality of Supervision
                             No                                                 None
(Yes/No):                                                (QSA):
DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                            Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Renewable energy                                                            100                    100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other environment and natural resources management                            50                     50
Other social development                                                      50                     50

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                                   At Approval
Vice President:                Axel van Trotsenburg                    James W. Adams
Country Director:              Stefan G. Koeberle                      Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Manager:                Jan Weetjens                            Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:           Susanne Holste                          John Victor Bottini
ICR Team Leader:               Susanne Holste
ICR Primary Author:            Andre Oosterman


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Make the utilization of natural resources by rural communities (sic).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Make the utilization of natural resources by rural communities sustainable




                                                    vi
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                 Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                  approval                           Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                 documents)                          Target Years
                  Increased number of environmentally sound and/or natural resource management
Indicator 1 :
                  subprojects implementation by communities in target locations
Value
quantitative or                                515                  1,415             1,811
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   12/28/2008            01/13/2012       12/31/2012
Comments          Exceeded target by 28%.Original and revised targets from PP for Additional Financing
(incl. %          (the values in the project supervision reports include targets for subprojects not funded
achievement)      by the grants covered by this ICR).
Indicator 2 :     Increase number of households deriving energy from renewable sources
Value
quantitative or                                13,680               32,300            36,277
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                  12/28/2008           01/13/2012        12/31/2012
Comments
                  Exceeded target by 12%. See comment for Indicators 1 regarding source of original
(incl. %
                  target
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                    Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised Target
                                                       approval                    Completion or
                                                                      Values
                                                     documents)                     Target Years
                  Component 1: Increased community investments in and improved management of
                  "green subprojects"
Indicator 1 :
                  a) Amount of Block Grant funding disbursed to finance community-selected "green
                  subprojects" in target sub-districts
Value
                                                                    US$ 26.0
(quantitative                                                                        US$ 23.6 million
                                                                    million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                       01/13/2012       12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was introduced during project restructuring. No baseline value available
achievement)
                  Component 1
Indicator 2 :     b) Number of renewable energy (RE) projects financed through PNPM and being
                  properly managed by participating communities (disaggregated by RE technology type)
Value
(quantitative                                                       185              411
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                       01/13/2012       12/31/2012



                                                  vii
Comments          The 411 total projects exceeded the target by 222%. The breakdown by technology type
(incl. %          is: 162 micro-hydro power and 249 other renewable energy. This indicator was
achievement)      introduced during project restructuring.
                  Component 1
Indicator 3 :
                  c) Number of households receiving electricity through PNPM-financed MHP schemes
Value
(quantitative                                                       22,800           26,172
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                      01/13/2012        12/31/2012
Comments          Indicator introduced at PR. 21,567 HH connected at project closing, further 4,605 HH
(incl. %          will be connected once 35 schemes under construction are completed (expected fall
achievement)      2013)
                  Component 1
Indicator 4 :     d) Increased percentage of households receiving at least 50 watts of electricity through
                  PNPM-financed MHP schemes
Value
(quantitative                                                       95%              more than 95%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                         01/13/2012      12/31/2012
Comments          This indicator was introduced during project restructuring. No baseline value available.
(incl. %          Estimate provided by NMC (average wattage per households is 103 watt; all households
achievement)      with access to electricity have at least 4 lamps of 15 watt each)
                  Component 1
                  e) Community contributions comprise 5% of the total budgets of MHP schemes
Indicator 5 :
                  financed with block grants, and comprise 15% of all other types of 'green subprojects'
                  financed with block grants
                                                                      5% for MHP,
Value                                                                                 3% for MHP, 13%
                                                                      15% for other
(quantitative                                                                         for other types of
                                                                      types of 'green
or Qualitative)                                                                       'green subprojects'
                                                                      subprojects'
Date achieved                                                         01/13/2012      12/31/2012
Comments          The achievement values (percentage of community contributions) may increase subject
(incl. %          to the completion of the remaining MHP schemes. This indicator was introduced during
achievement)      project restructuring.
                  Component 2: Increased capacity of local government and community representatives
Indicator 6 :     a) Number GOI-contracted consultants/facilitators with increased capacity to assist
                  communities in NRM/environmental planning
Value
(quantitative                                                       160              169
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                       01/31/2012       12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was introduced during project restructuring.
achievement)
                  Component 2
Indicator 7 :     b) Level of community satisfaction with quality of NRM TA provided by Recipient
                  contracted consultants/facilitators
Value                                                              70%           66%



                                                 viii
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                        01/13/2012       12/31/2012
Comments
                  This indicator was introduced during project restructuring. End-of-project value taken
(incl. %
                  from sample beneficiary survey.
achievement)
                  Component 2
Indicator 8 :     c) Villages in target sub-districts which demonstrate that 'green subprojects' are aligned
                  with mid-term development plans (RPJM-Desa)
Value
(quantitative                                                        80%              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                        01/13/2012       12/31/2012
Comments
                  Alignment of proposals with RPJM-Desa mandatory. Revised project manual adjusted
(incl. %
                  unit of measurement: "percentage" better suited than "individuals"
achievement)
                  Component 2
Indicator 9 :     d) Increase in community and local government awareness of links between improved
                  NRM practices and enhanced livelihood
Value
(quantitative                                                        70%              n/a
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                       01/13/2012      12/31/2012
Comments          Introduced during PR. No baseline. PMD planned to collect EOP value during
(incl. %          qualitative study planned during extension but extension not agreed between MOHA
achievement)      and PSF
                  Component 2
Indicator 10 :    e) Sustained community maintenance of 'green subprojects' after annual block grant
                  funding is fully disbursed
Value
(quantitative                                                        75%              n/a
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                        01/13/2012       12/31/2012
Comments          The value of this indicator depends on qualitative studies. Studies were planned to be
(incl. %          conducted by the executing agency during a no-cost extension in 2013 which was not
achievement)      agreed between MOHA and PSF.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                  Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                            IP
          Archived                                                                     (USD millions)
  1      06/30/2010        Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                  1.60
  2      03/13/2012        Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                 20.07
  3      11/19/2012            Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory                 31.68




                                                   ix
H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at   Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP in USD millions
                                                         Additional Financing (AF) of
                                                         US$18 million was approved to
                                                         finance additional block grants and
                                                         technical assistance to kecamatan
                                                         in the eight target provinces. The
  01/13/2012        Y         MS     MS         16.00
                                                         Grant Agreement was amended to
                                                         reflect the AF, make
                                                         corresponding revisions to
                                                         indicators, and correct a minor
                                                         error in the PDO.

If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body)
enter ratings below:
                                                                 Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                      Moderately Satisfactory

I. Disbursement Profile




                                               x
1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
In 2007 the Government of Indonesia (GoI) launched the National Program for Community
Empowerment (Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat, PNPM) through the scaling up of the
Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) and the Urban Poverty Project (UPP). At the national level,
a steering committee (Pokja Pengendali), chaired by the Coordinating Ministry of People’s Welfare
(MENKO KESRA) provides policy guidance and oversight. Its members include representatives
from the Ministry of Home Affairs, the National Planning Board (BAPPENAS), the Ministry of
Finance, and relevant line ministries. In 2007 GoI also established the PNPM Support Facility (PSF)
to harmonize and coordinate development partner efforts in support of PNPM, including the planning
and targeting of financial assistance, as well as monitoring and evaluation of the program’s
operations and impact.
PNPM was designed as a platform for community development that could be adapted for more
targeted interventions, for example post disaster reconstruction or sector specific projects. In 2006,
the World Bank, with support from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA),
assisted GoI to expand KDP to the provinces of North, South and South East Sulawesi and to develop
a pilot for the integration of an environmental and sustainable natural resources management strategy
within KDP’s community-driven investment process. The pilot would provide communities with
technical support to develop small-scale renewable energy (RE) and natural resource management
(NRM) sub-projects, and provide additional block grants to co-finance these sub-projects. The pilot
would be executed by GoI, three CSOs, and the PSF, and became known as PNPM Green.
PNPM Green was designed to combine capacity building and awareness raising delivered by civil
society organizations (CSOs), technical assistance for micro-hydro projects (supported by GTZ),
block grants provided by the government, and an evaluation program managed by PSF. Each partner
would bring its comparative advantage to bear on an approach that had not previously been tested in
Indonesia. Multiple trust funds were mobilized and led to a complex institutional arrangement which
combined recipient (GoI and CSOs) and PSF execution of trust funds with different closing dates.
This ICR reports on the project “Decentralized Management of Natural Resources and Renewable
Energy? (TF093076) which was executed by GoI. Annex 10 presents an overview of the PNPM
Green trust fund structure and includes the Implementation Completion Memoranda of the three
associated trust funds that closed in 2012 (TF 090912, TF090977, and TF096887). Grant completion
reports for KDP in Sulawesi Environmental Training and Awareness Project (TF090976) and KDP
and Environment in Sulawesi (TF056890) were prepared in 2011. An extension is currently being
prepared for KDP and Environment in Sulawesi (TF090960) and the completion report for PNPM
Green (TF093077) will be prepared in 2014.
It was envisaged that the PNPM Green would not only address GoI’s development objectives, but
would also be fully consistent with World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS FY2009-2012)
for Indonesia, which emphasized investing in Indonesia’s institutions for inclusive and sustainable
development. This project supports the CPS thematic areas of environmental sustainability and
community development in rural villages, as well as alternative income generation and institutional
capacity building.




                                                1
  Table 1 gives an overview of all the trust funds which were mobilized for PNPM Green.

                           Table 1: Trust Funds for PNPM Green Activities
                                                            Grant        Implemented
                     Fund Name                             Amount             by              Closing Date
                                                          (US$ ’000)
Financed by CIDA
KDP in Sulawesi Environmental Training and Awareness
Project (TF090976) - Grant completion report approved         726            CARE             Feb 28, 2011
on Sep 22, 2011
KDP and Environment in Sulawesi (TF056890) - Grant
                                                             9,800             GoI            Dec 31, 2010
completion report approved on Sep 22, 2011
KDP in Sulawesi Environmental Training and Awareness
Project (TF090912) – Implementation Completion               1,127            WCS             Oct 31 2012
Memorandum included in Annex 10.
KDP in Sulawesi Environmental Training and Awareness
Project in Southeast Sulawesi (TF090977) –
                                                             1,466            OWT             Oct 31 2012
Implementation Completion Memorandum included in
Annex 10.
KDP and Environment in Sulawesi (TF090060) –
                                                             1,959            PSF             Aug 30, 2013
Extension under preparation
Financed by Multi-Donor Trust Fund (through PSF)
PNPM Green Awareness Raising Project in Sumatra
                                                              265             OWT             June 30, 2013
(TF011930) -
PNPM Green (TF093077) – Separate report will be
                                                              735             PSF             Dec 30 2013
prepared after grant closing
Support Facility for PNPM Green (TF096887) –
Implementation Completion Memorandum included in             2,295            WCS             Dec 31, 2012
Annex 10.
Decentralized Management of Natural Resources and
                                                            34,000            GoI             Dec 31, 2012
Renewable Energy (TF 093076) – covered by this ICR.
Total                                                       55,693
  Source: PSF

  1.2 Original Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators
  Project Development Objective
  In the original Grant Agreement the objective of the project is “to make the utilization of natural
  resources by rural communities? (sic).

  Key Indicators
  The original Grant Agreement listed four performance indicators:
  (i)   % increase in income for beneficiaries that implement income-generating activities,



                                                  2
(ii) % of Green-KDP supported local Natural Resources management plans that are effectively
      implemented,
(iii) % positive change in practices related to environmental and natural resources management, and
(iv) % increase in normal KDP funding being used for "green" activities.


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators
Revised PDO. The wording of the original Project Development Objective was incomplete and was
revised during the appraisal of the Additional Financing. The word “sustainable? was added, so that
the revised PDO reads: “to make the utilization of natural resources by rural communities sustainable?
(emphasis added). This revision did not result in any change in the implementation of the project.
Revised key indicators. The original Grant Agreement did not differentiate between outcome and
intermediate result indicators (RIs). During the preparation of the project’s Additional Financing the
indicators were changed, including: separate PDO and intermediate RIs; replacement of indicators
whose formulation was “vague?; and re-wording of the PDO-level indicators to more accurately
measure outcomes/impact of Project interventions.
The revised key indicators were formally introduced with the amendment of the Grant Agreement in
January 2012. The MIS had already tracked these indicators which had been a part of the monitoring
framework of the 2007 pilot project “KDP and Environment in Sulawesi?. Hence it was possible to
monitor progress against most revised indicators from 2009, the first full year of project
implementation.
                                Table 2: Original and Revised Key Indicators
         Original Indicators                                   Revised Indicators
                                        PDO level
    Number of approved                  Revised to “Increased number of environmentally sound and/or
    proposals. 1                        natural resource management sub-projects implemented by
                                        communities in target locations?.
    Number of rural households          Revised to “Increase in number of households deriving energy
    with increased access to            from renewable sources?.
    improved renewable energy.1
                                        Intermediate Results Indicators
    % increase in income for            Dropped, because the language of the indicator was considered
    beneficiaries that implement        vague.
    income-generating activities
    % of Green-KDP supported            Revised to “Villages in target sub-districts which demonstrate that
    local Natural Resources             ‘green sub-projects’ are aligned with mid-term development plans
    management plans that are           (RPJM-Desa)? to improve clarity.
    effectively implemented.
    % positive change in practices Dropped, because the language of the indicator was considered
    related to environmental and   vague, and replaced by new indicators (community satisfaction


1
    Indicators from the pilot project in Sulawesi (TF056890)


                                                        3
natural resources management. with TA provided, and increased awareness between NRM issues
                              and livelihood improvement).
% increase in normal KDP       Dropped, as it was deemed irrelevant, since PNPM Green block
funding being used for "green" grants are specifically earmarked to finance “green? activities, and
activities.                    communities will not use normal PNPM funding for these
                               activities when there is an earmarked grant.
Indicators not listed in original Added to more effectively measure progress made towards
Grant Agreement.                  achieving the PDO.
Sources: TF056890: Grant Agreement (March 2007). TF093076: Original Grant Agreement (October
2008), amended Grant Agreement (January 2012), Project paper on AF (2011)


1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The intended beneficiaries of the project consisted of about 912,000 persons living in 66 kecamatan
in 22 kabupaten in eight target provinces (South Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawesi, West Sulawesi, North
Sulawesi, North Sumatra, West Sumatra, Bengkulu and Aceh). The population in all target
kecamatan would benefit both directly and indirectly from improved access to renewable energy
sources (mainly micro hydro-power) and better management of natural resources. Secondary
beneficiaries would be (a) the Directorate General for Community and Village Empowerment in the
Ministry of Home Affairs (the implementing agency), which would benefit from increased capacity,
(b) village level facilitators and partner agencies providing implementation support, (c) kabupaten
governments in which the target kecamatan were located, and (d) kecamatan institutions, which
would benefit from technical assistance and advisory services in the process of establishing and
strengthening their role in channeling CDD funds to appropriate community activities and
investments.

1.5 Original Components
Component 1: Community Block Grants. Project Cost: US$12.5 million (100% Bank financing).
This component would disburse block grants for “green? projects through three separate windows:
Sub-component 1a: Kecamatan-level grants for NRM and RE projects (US$3.0 million). This sub-
component would provide block grants to participating kecamatan to finance eligible NRM and RE
projects identified in village plans, consisting of the following categories: (i) conservation, (ii)
rehabilitation, (iii) income-generating activities, (iv) renewable energy, and (v) capacity building.
Kecamatan grants would not finance activities on the project’s negative list (such as land, religious
buildings or government offices). Each participating kecamatan would receive an annual block grant
of IDR600 million (approximately US$50,000 equivalent), consisting of: (i) an IDR100 million
planning grant, and (ii) an IDR 500 million project investment grant. These block grants would be
additional to the block grants that villages would receive through PNPM Rural. Initially, the project
would disburse kecamatan-level grants for green projects to kecamatan in four provinces in Sulawesi
where pilot activities had successfully been implemented. Subsequently the project would expand to
kecamatan in four provinces in Sumatra (see Annex 2 for details).
Sub-component 1b: Kabupaten-level grants for NRM and RE projects (US$0.8million). This sub-
component would provide block grants to participating kabupaten to finance larger or technically
more complex projects that would benefit more than one kecamatan, or finance eligible projects in
kecamatan that would not receive funding through sub-component 1a. Initially, these kabupaten-level
grants were provided to kabupaten in the four provinces in Sulawesi, followed by kabupaten in four


                                               4
additional provinces in Sumatra. Each participating kabupaten would receive an annual grant of
IDR500 million (equivalent to about US$45,000).
Sub-component 1c: Kabupaten-level grants earmarked for MHP schemes (US$8.7 million). To
encourage investments in renewable energy, part of the kabupaten-level block grants would be
allocated to the central government budget to finance investments in micro hydropower (MHP) in
communities that were unlikely to have access to the national power grid in the short or medium
term.
Component 2: Technical Assistance. Project Cost: US$3.5 million (100% Bank financing).
The project would be managed by a Project Management Unit (PMU) in the Directorate of Natural
Resources and Appropriate Technology in the Directorate-General of Village Community
Empowerment (DJ-PMD or simply “PMD?) in the Ministry of Home Affairs. Through this
component, the PMU would hire consultants and facilitators to assist in project implementation,
organize workshops and trainings, and acquire necessary equipment. Technical assistance would be
provided through the National Management Consultant at the central level, Provincial Consultants at
the provincial level, and facilitators at the kabupaten and kecamatan level.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised, but the scope, costs, and amount of Bank financing were increased
as a result of the Additional Financing (AF). The AF would support activities in at least 78 target
sub-districts in eight provinces. Table 3 summarizes the cost by component of the original PNPM
Green and the additional financing.


                            Table 3: Cost by Component (US$ million)

      Components               Original         Additional       Revised Total     Percentage of
                              allocation        Financing                          Revised Total
 I. Block Grants for             12.5              13.5               26.0             76%
 Natural Resource
 Management and
 Renewable Energy
 (GOI-executed)
 II. Facilitation Support        3.5                4.5               8.0               24%
 (GOI-executed)
 Total                          16.0               18.0               34.0             100%


1.7 Other significant changes
PSF approved initial project funding of US$16 million in October 2008. PMD and its development
partners envisioned a more ambitious PNPM Green program which was presented to PSF’s Joint
Management Committee in April 2009 for a total cost of US$60 million. This larger program
consisted of the same activities but with increased geographic scope. The development partners
eventually mobilized US$56 million for the program, see Table 1, which came close to the funding
requirements.




                                              5
In January 2012, PSF provided GoI with additional financing of US$18.0 million to finance
additional block grants and technical assistance in kecamatan in the eight target provinces. The
original Grant Agreement was amended to reflect the additional financing, as well as to update the
definition of the PDO and the project’s key performance indicators (as described in Section 1.3).
During the appraisal of the additional financing GoI had requested an extension of the closing date
which could not be granted because of the closing date of the PSF parent trust fund. Once the parent
trust fund was extended, discussions resumed but agreement could not be reached. At project closing,
US$ 3.3 million remained unspent which GoI had mainly intended for MHP projects in Papua.
However, no technical assistance could be mobilized to work in this difficult province. If these
schemes could have been successfully undertaken, the key performance indicators of households
having access to renewable energy would have been even higher, it currently stands at 36,277
households against a target of 32,300.




                                               6
2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Soundness of background analysis and lessons learned from previous projects. The project was
built on the platform of community development and empowerment that had been put in place by
KDP/PNPM Rural and experience from the CIDA-funded pilot, “KDP and Environment in
Sulawesi?. PNPM Rural projects were performing well and the arrangements for community
planning, management, and operations and maintenance were appropriate for PNPM Green.
However PNPM Rural block grants are not earmarked and communities opt to fund projects which
demonstrate an immediate and clear impact on their welfare and household incomes. This preference
has seldom resulted in investments in NRM, which are typically longer-term initiatives, with benefits
and linkages to income generation not immediately visible to the communities. About 20 million
households were without access to the national grid and would benefit from small-scale renewable
energy or micro-hydro projects. Local expertise in design and construction would be available and
equipment was widely available. The design also reflected lessons learned through consultations with
stakeholders led by the CIDA-financed CSOs.
Assessment of project design. As indicated above, project design followed the successful pilot
“KDP and Environment in Sulawesi? and incorporated lessons learned from ongoing PNPM Rural
projects, with modifications to suit the specific needs of PNPM Green. 2 The design of the project
appeared highly suitable to assist communities with the development of NRM and RE schemes.
Profitable activities (such as planting of productive trees on private land) could have been financed
through a revolving credit rather than a grant scheme but lessons from PNPM Rural show the
complexity of setting up and managing such a mechanism. The option of fully integrating PNPM
Green into PNPM Rural was also explored but was not taken up due to the administrative
complexities and management capacity weaknesses of PNPM Rural’s sub-directorate which already
struggled with the national expansion of the program. Instead PNPM Green was set up as a separate
special project, which replicated many of the PNPM Rural structures and processes.
Support from CSOs in the form of community mobilization and training activities was very suitable
to supplement GoI intervention. There were, however, some difficulties with coordinating activities
because GoI fiscal year regulations require an annual budget execution while CSOs did not operate
under such constraints.
Quality at Entry. Although the project design was sound there was a lack of formal documentation
on project preparation and appraisal, see section 5.1.
Government commitment, stakeholder involvement, and participatory processes. The
Government of Indonesia played a central role in the design of PNPM Green, and was actively
supported in the process by PSF, GTZ and DANIDA (which financed the Technical Support Unit and




2
  The project was considered as a continuation of the CIDA-funded “KDP and Environment in Sulawesi? pilot
project As a result, the project team conducted its due diligence as an alternative to formal appraisal. Due diligence
process was conducted between June to July 2008; covering different aspects of the project, particularly on the
selection of locations, FM assessment, procurement, and M&E arrangements.



                                                        7
an international NRM adviser, respectively). The CIDA-financed CSOs consulted stakeholders at
kabupaten, kecamatan and community levels, and the lessons learned from these consultations were
incorporated in the project design.
Risks and risk mitigation measures. The project risk was rated “moderate? after risk mitigation,
and this rating was deemed appropriate. Although delays in budget approvals and consultant
recruitment by GoI were not envisaged as risks during the preparation of the grants, these risks were
nonetheless taken into consideration during project implementation.

2.2 Implementation
PNPM Green was designed to combine activities implemented by GoI, CSOs and PSF, supported by
nine child trust funds under the umbrella of CIDA and PSF trust funds, see Annex 10 for details.
Overall, these trust funds were instrumental to achieving the development objective of PNPM Green,
implemented through two main components: community block grants (executed by GoI) and
technical assistance which includes facilitation support (executed by GoI and CSOs) and monitoring,
evaluation and studies (executed by GoI and PSF).
CSOs engaged in training of facilitators and communities as well as awareness raising, inter-village
knowledge exchanges, and media campaigns. The training included setting up demonstrations plots
and on the job-training in the implementation and management of green activities, such as bio-gas
and alternative crops production. CSOs successfully strengthened the communities’ understanding of
sustainable natural resources management and helped them explore options for sustainable rural
livelihoods. CSOs made special efforts to engage local government officials in PNPM Green in order
to deepen government’s commitment to environmental sustainability.
Table 4 summarizes the institutional and implementation arrangements and highlights how this
project (TF093076) is embedded in the overall design of PNPM Green and its trust fund
mechanisms.
               Table 4: Institutional and Implementation Arrangement of PNPM Green

 Components           TFs           Agencies                           Activities
1. Community       TF056890    GoI (CIDA)           Communities selected activities focused on
Block Grants                                        Natural Resources Management (NRM), income
                   TF093076    GoI (PSF)
                                                    generating activities (IGA), and increasing
                                                    access to renewable energy (RE).
2. Technical       TF056890    GoI (CIDA)           This component provided technical advisory
Assistance:                                         services to PMD in specialist fields, including
                   TF093076    GoI (PSF)
                                                    community development, environmental
Facilitation
                   TF090976    CSO in               services, civil engineering, management
support
                               S.Sulawesi           information system, operation and maintenance,
                   TF090977
                               CSO in South-        procurement, training and complaint handling.
                   TF090912
                               East Sulawesi
                   TF096887                         CSOs engaged in training of facilitators and
                               CSO in North         communities as well as awareness raising, inter-
                   TF011930    Sulawesi             village knowledge exchanges and media
                               CSO in Sumatra       campaigns




                                                8
                               CSO in Sumatra
2. Technical       TF056890    GoI (CIDA)           This component was designed to measure the
Assistance:                                         environmental/social/ economic effects of
                   TF093076    GoI (PSF)
                                                    PNPM Green intervention, and to assess the
Monitoring,
                   TF090060    Bank/PSF (CIDA)      integration of sustainable NRM practices into
evaluation, and
                   TF093077    Bank/PSF (PSF)       PNPM Rural process
studies


Factors outside the control of the government or the implementation agency
Weather. Implementation of some sub-projects (notably tree planting and some MHP plants) was
adversely affected by unfavorable weather events and changes in natural water courses.

Factors subject to the control of the government or the implementation agency
Positive factors
Flexibility. The implementing agency and the Bank were willing to modify the project design in
response to changing circumstances. For example, the MIS was upgraded during project
implementation and the M&E framework was revised during the preparation of Additional Financing
in 2011.
Areas for Improvement
Limited coordination between PNPM Green and PNPM Rural. Throughout project implementation,
there was little coordination between PNPM Green and PNPM Rural, even though both projects were
implemented by the same Directorate General, PMD. This adversely affected the efficiency with
which both projects were implemented, for example technical facilitators from PNPM Rural were
supposed to assist PNPM Green but they did not receive instructions to do so. There was also a lack
of information exchange, which limited the mainstreaming of “green? practices from PNPM Green to
PNPM Rural.
Weaknesses in procurement procedures, practices, and oversight mechanism. Community
procurement procedures and practices sometimes were not transparent and were only intended to
comply with PNPM’s administrative procedures. As evidenced from BPKP procurement reviews and
the Bank's ex-post review reports, these procedures were at times not properly complied with, see
Section 2.4. Delays and procedural gaps observed in procurement required strengthening of
procurement capacity and oversight mechanisms in PMD. Procurement monitoring could be
strengthened by including relevant modules in the project’s MIS.
Late reporting. PMD did not submit the required quarterly progress reports until the first quarter of
2012. The implementing agency was also late in disseminating the findings of the 2011 external
audit.
Delays in disbursement. At the central level, there were avoidable delays in disbursement of funds,
forcing communities to undertake activities within a very short period, or during an inappropriate
season. Late disbursement also compromised the ability of facilitators to visit villages.
Mid-Term Review. A Mid-Term Review was not envisaged in the project design; however, reliable
information was available through the project’s extensive monitoring system and through
implementation support missions, so that improvements could be made during the processing of the
additional financing.


                                                9
Effectiveness of risk mitigation. Mitigation of project risks was generally good. Risks related to
fiduciary controls and environmental risks were mitigated effectively.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The project measured progress against key performance indicators (KPIs) using a comprehensive
management information system (MIS), augmented by a series of qualitative and quantitative surveys,
quarterly and annual progress reports, and the results of implementation support missions.
(a)   M&E design. At the time of appraisal, PNPM Rural already had an MIS, but it was decided to
      establish a separate monitoring system for PNPM Green which became operational in 2009. In
      addition, a series of surveys and studies, including an impact evaluation, were envisaged to
      complement the data to be collected by the MIS. Initially there was confusion as to whether
      M&E was the responsibility of GoI or PSF, because M&E activities were funded by a PSF-
      executed trust fund, see sections 1.1 and 5.1. The misunderstanding was resolved through
      dialogue.
(b) M&E implementation. MIS data were published on the project website (http://www.green-
    pnpm.com) and updated on a monthly basis until the project closed. During project
    implementation PMD took several actions to improve performance of the system, including (i)
    revision of the system to capture data that can be measured against the results indicators, (ii)
    facilitator training, and (iii) updating the project implementation manual to accommodate the
    revised MIS. A baseline study was conducted but was deemed unreliable and could not be used
    to assess the impact of the project. The absence of an impact evaluation is particularly
    problematic for a pilot project whose continuation would be judged on impact and whose
    design should be corrected based on evaluation findings. The surveys and studies envisaged
    were completed before the project closing date, except the tree planting survey and a survey to
    assess community satisfaction with the quality of technical assistance provided by consultants
    and facilitators. These studies are financed from TF090060 and will be completed during the
    summer of 2013.
(c)   M&E utilization. GoI made limited use of the data generated by the MIS and its progress
      reports did not contain analysis or explanation of the data collected by the system. As a result,
      both GoI and the Bank relied more heavily than expected on the findings of implementation
      support missions, surveys and studies to monitor and evaluate project progress.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards compliance was largely satisfactory. The project triggered safeguard policies related to
environmental assessment (OD/BP 4.01) and indigenous peoples (OP/BP 4.10). Supervision missions
confirmed that the project did not cause significant adverse environmental or social impacts. The
project did not finance land acquisition. Given the small size of the sub-projects financed by the
project, it was a priori expected that any adverse social and environmental impacts of such sub-
projects would be small or negligible. Indeed, the project generated substantial social and envi-
ronmental benefits, especially by providing over 27,000 households with renewable energy. Budgets
for the construction of MHP plants included an allocation for replanting trees to minimize adverse
environmental impacts. Facilitators struggled to fill in safeguards forms correctly and showed low
ownership of safeguards provisions; however no evidence was found that this had any negative
environmental impact.
The project encountered some problems with financial management throughout implementation, e.g.,
late recruitment of financial consultants and absence of internal audit. In some cases, due to Fiscal


                                                10
Year budget validation, block grants were fully disbursed before completion of physical works.
However, most problems were solved over time. The project received an unqualified opinion from
BPKP (the Government auditor) in 2010 and 2011, and Bank supervision missions rated the project’s
financial management as “moderately satisfactory? throughout implementation. 3

Procurement of Goods and Selection of Consultants under the project were governed by, and carried
out in line with, Bank Procurement and Consultants Guidelines. However, PMD staff had limited
familiarity with these guidelines which resulted in delays in the recruitment of facilitators.
Community procurement of MHP was at times slow and was further impacted by insufficient
facilitation. Community procurement procedures need to focus on achieving value for money while
ensuring transparency and accountability rather than complying with PNPM's administrative
procedures. The Bank’s ex post review of selected contracts for goods revealed procedural gaps,
notably PMD used the bidding documents for non-consulting services for procurement of goods
causing considerable delay and problems in evaluation of bids. Findings of the Bank’s supervision
missions also revealed that some of the community procurements were made at prices higher than
prevailing market rates. Community procurement of MHP was at times slow and was further
impacted by insufficient facilitation. Community procurement procedures need to focus on achieving
value for money while ensuring transparency and accountability rather than complying with PNPM's
administrative procedures. The Procurement Performance was rated “Moderately Satisfactory?.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Transition arrangements. PMD and PSF discussed for several months about a no cost extension for
the project. Despite best efforts on both sides, no agreement could be reached which led to a
cancellation of US$ 3.3 million, see section 1.7. All facilitators of PNPM Green were demobilized in
December 2012, although 14 of 162 MHP sub-projects were not fully completed at the time. These
sub-projects subsequently received technical support from the TSU to ensure their completion.
Follow-up projects. While no stand-alone follow up project is planned, the evaluations have shown
that the project was able to develop sustainable green livelihoods, such as alternative crop production
and women’s small business networks. These lessons will be incorporated into GoI’s national
Livelihoods Program which is being developed with PSF assistance. Good practices from PNPM
Green will also be included into PNPM Rural to ensure the mainstreaming of environmental issues.
The “greening? of PNPM Rural shall include revision to the project’s operations manual, revisions
to facilitator training, and recruitment of specialized advisors.


3.      Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objective, Design and Implementation
The PDO is deemed relevant since it complemented the Government’s efforts to alleviate poverty in
rural areas, empower local communities, and promote improved natural resources management. It
contributed towards the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) 7: Ensuring Environmental
Sustainability. Indonesia is pursuing a triple track plus one development strategy: Pro-growth, pro-
job, pro-poor, and pro-environment. The National Medium-Term Development Plan (2010 – 2014)
recognizes that environmental challenges threaten the sustainable development of the country, and


3
     The audit report for 2012 was under preparation at the time of writing and is due only by end June 2013.


                                                        11
various studies have outlined the opportunity costs to Indonesia of poor management of its natural
resource wealth, exacerbated by the costs of climate change. Advancing an environmental agenda
under this project has been an important part of addressing poverty alleviation objectives through
supporting environmentally sustainable, community-driven development. GoI recently confirmed its
commitment to PNPM through the adoption of the PNPM Roadmap which sets the program’s course
beyond 2015, the end of the mandate of the current administration. 4 The Bank’s new CPS covering
fiscal years 2013 to 2015 supporting Indonesia’s four-pronged approach: pro-poor, pro-growth, pro-
job, and pro-environment. PNPM Rural and its special projects (including PNPM Green) remain at
the center of the new CPS, with its CDD approach aiming to improve existing government programs,
strengthen institutions and improve the links between different levels of government.
Intensive facilitation and capacity building efforts, combined with improved local governance
conditions, contributed to the communities’ capacity to plan and construct good quality, low-cost
small-scale infrastructure focused on renewable energy. Awareness raising by CSOs has added to the
communities’ ability to manage natural resources and to include them amongst their development
priorities. Grant funding was targeted at natural resource management and renewable energy projects
and was used by communities for such activities. It is not known, however, whether communities
awareness has been raised sufficiently to continue investments in sustainable resources management
without tied funding. A key element that empowers communities to assume stewardship over their
natural environment are land rights which are contested in Indonesia. Communities have little
recourse through the legal system if mining concessions, which are granted by local governments,
threaten their eco-systems.

Discussions were held during implementation support missions to confirm the appropriateness of
project design and the need for any corrective actions needed to meet implementation challenges,
particularly capacity constraints of PMD and relations with project partners, the TSU and CSOs.
PMD and its partners (CSOs and TSU) acted on many of the suggestions for improvement, however,
the complex implementation arrangements made coordination difficult at times. The assumption that
technical facilitators would be provided by PNPM Rural to assist communities with renewable
energy schemes, particularly MHP, did not materialize and placed heavier demands on the TSU. At
the end of the project, thirty-five of 162 MHP sub-projects were still under construction.
PNPM Green was a pilot which required a strong evaluations program to assess whether the project’s
outcomes would merit an upscale of activities, modification to its design, or a discontinuation. The
absence of reliable baseline data, however, compromised the ability for evaluation. A number of
studies were undertaken, and there are indications that the projects did achieve improvement for
natural resource management and improved ecosystem services. However, studies that include the
sustainability of these natural resources management are still ongoing at the time this report is written.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective
PNPM Green was successful in achieving its development objective of making the utilization of
natural resources by rural communities sustainable, as reflected by its two outcome indicators:




4
    Peta Jalan PNPM Mandiri – Menuju Keberlanjutan Program Pemberdayaan Masyarakat. Kelompok Kerja
    Pengendali Program Penanggulangan Kemiskinan Berbasis Pemberdayaan Masyarakat (PNPM Mandiri), Tim
    Nasional Percepatan Penanggulangan Kemiskinan (TNP2K). September 2012.


                                                 12
(a) Increased number of environmentally sound and/or natural resource management sub-project
implementation by communities in target location. By the end of December 2012, the project had
financed 1,811 “green? sub-projects, which was substantially higher than the revised target of 1,415. 5
These sub-projects generated significant benefits related to restoration and enhancement of natural
assets (environment and natural resources), and improved ecosystem services. The benefits stem
from improved erosion control, improved protection against storms, increased productivity of marine
food webs, and improvements in soil fertility. Many Micro Hydro-Power (MHP) schemes generate
additional environmental benefits as they encourage communities to manage upstream forests or
develop small-scale reservoirs, which can increase fish availability or support local tourism.
Enhancing ecosystem services may also generate economic benefits for households, communities,
and wider society. The calculated value of these is significant; incorporating this value in future
analysis would enhance existing positive economic returns.
(b) Increase number of households deriving energy from renewable sources. At completion, the
project had provided over 36,277 households with a source of renewable energy, mostly micro
hydro-power (about 21,500). This was substantially higher than the revised target of 32,300
households.
Renewable energy sub-projects (including MHP and Biogas) have positive effects through reduced
energy expenditure and thereby improve household financial assets. This may enable some small
businesses to expand trading hours or extend the scope of their operations. It is expected that
enhanced economic productivity will increase over time, generating significant increases in
community income. In addition, MHP and biogas provide clean, ‘alternative’ energies, and do not
produce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. By replacing the use of fossil fuels (kerosene, diesel and
gasoline) for electricity generation, MHP schemes reduce GHG emissions with the average estimated
annual GHG reduction is 2,144kg CO2 per year. The use of biogas digester has an important role in
society’s drive for sustainable development through animal waste utilization (biogas) which reduces
the GHG emissions (potentially 3,000kg CO2 per year) and furthermore improves rural environment
conditions.
The achievement of the intermediate results indicators, however, is mixed: four targets achieved, two
targets are yet to be achieved subject to the completion of the remaining 35 MHP schemes (expected
Fall 2013), two are slightly below the end of project target values, and end-of-project data not yet
available for two indicators 6, cf. Annex 2.

3.3   Efficiency
Efficiency was gauged by unit rate norms of sub-projects financed by PNPM Green and for micro-
hydropower schemes, by the net present value of sub-project benefits.

Unit rate norms are highly favorable for community-executed infrastructure projects. In 2012, PSF
commissioned a technical evaluation of a representative sample of 1,765 sub-projects financed by


5
   The MIS and annual reports mention an end-of-project indicator value of 2,927 instead of 1,811. However, this
   figure includes 1,110 “green? sub-projects that were financed by CIDA during 2008-2010. Similarly, the target of
   2,500 also includes CIDA-financed sub-projects. The (revised) target for sub-projects to be financed by PNPM
   Green was 1,415 (Project Paper, page 3).
6
  The values of these two Result Indicators (RI 2.d and RI 2.e) depend on qualitative studies. Studies were planned
to be conducted by the executing agency during a no-cost extension in 2013, however MOHA and PSF did not reach
an agreement on the extension, cf section 2.5 .


                                                     13
PNPM Rural, including micro-hydro which is the predominant type of infrastructure project financed
by PNPM Green. 7 According to this study, sub-projects typically cost 15 to 25% less compared to
similar projects undertaken by line ministries.

PSF also commissioned a study on the return on investment and cost effectiveness of MHP sub-
projects financed by PNPM Green. 8 The study concluded that the vast majority of MHP sub-projects
were financially viable when the benefits of fuel savings were taken into account (see Annex 3 for
details).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project was (and is) consistent with the priorities of GoI and the Bank CPS for Indonesia. Based
on a consolidation of the three elements of outcome, the overall rating is moderately satisfactory. The
project was and remains relevant for the Borrower and the Bank and has achieved its PDO, however
the limitations of implementation, lead to a moderately satisfactory rating.
The project was and remains relevant and consistent with the priorities of GoI and the Bank CPS for
Indonesia. The project has also successfully achieved its PDO level indicators. The achievement of
the intermediate results indicators (RIs) shows moderate shortcomings as two RIs (i.e. 1.c and 1.e)
are yet to be achieved due to the construction delays of the 35 MHP schemes and two (i.e. 1.a and
2.b) are slightly below the end of project target values. In addition, studies – conducted by PSF –
suggest that the project has achieved efficiency in terms of return on investment and cost
effectiveness.
These main three elements – relevance, objectives achievements as well as levels of efficiency –
suggest a moderate shortcoming on the overall assessment; leading to a moderately satisfactory
rating.
3.5       Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
As mentioned in section 3.2, and Annexes 5 and 10, PNPM Green has had a positive impact on
providing households with energy from renewable sources which reduced their expenditure for fuel.

PNPM Green had a positive impact on increasing the role of women in community decision making
and 50% of project beneficiaries were women. The CSOs placed high priority on supporting
women’s groups to develop and manage numerous green enterprises for income generation, e.g.,
waste management and recycling, production and sale of organic fertilizers, handicrafts made from
recycled material, silk weaving, coconut oil, fuel efficient stove briquettes, and a range of food
products such as dried fish and vegetable chips. This has had a positive impact on income generation
in poor rural households.

Village development planning processes have become more environmentally sustainable as a result
of the project, and communities have become increasingly confident to propose and implement a
more diverse range of green activities. Not only have community resources been mobilized to
support program investments, but contributions have also been received from other sources. One of


7
    Ibid.
8
    Micro Hydro Power (MHP) Return of Investment and Cost Effectiveness Analysis. Castlerock Consulting Pte. Ltd.
    September 2012.


                                                     14
the CSOs, WCS, has made significant links between local communities and the private sector
(especially in eco-tourism), which will increase development impact and sustainability.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and Stakeholder Workshops
Beneficiary surveys. PSF commissioned an evaluation of the project’s impact on livelihoods and a
qualitative study on the spillover effects of PNPM Green to other activities inside or outside targeted
kecamatan. The key findings are summarized below (see Annex 5 for details):
•    Income-generating activities are often successful, but mainly at the household level. The project
     has resulted in few viable businesses.
•    Household assets have increased through RE projects that reduce expenditure (such as fuel-
     efficient stoves and biogas plants).
•    Capacity building by PNPM Green has had positive effects on the involvement of beneficiaries
     in local sub-projects and 65% reported making use of skills acquired through capacity building
     under the project.
Stakeholder workshop. On 18 March 2013, PSF invited key stakeholders to a workshop in Jakarta
to comment on the initial findings of the project evaluation presented in this ICR. The majority of the
participants agreed that PNPM Green should be continued, and that it should be more focused and
better integrated with PNPM Rural (see Annex 6 for details).

4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
“Risk to Development Outcome? is defined as the risk that the (expected) development outcomes of
the project—at the time of this assessment—will not be maintained or realized. As described in
Section 3.4, the project’s development outcomes remain highly relevant. By achieving these
outcomes, the project has contributed to establishing effective, participatory and representative
community committees that can mobilize funds for the preparation and implementation of RE and
NRM sub-projects, thereby ensuring that villagers in project locations are better able to use natural
resources in a sustainable manner. There is a risk that some of these outcomes will not be sustained in
the long-run for sub-projects that are not income-generating or cost-saving (notably sub-projects
aimed at erosion control or ecosystem rehabilitation). Although it is likely that the outcomes of such
sub-projects may not be sustained, the impact on the overall development outcome of PNPM Green
would be minor as sub-projects that do not generate income or save costs account for less than 10%
of the cost of PNPM Green sub-projects. The overall “risk to development outcome? is hence rated
“moderate?.

5.   Assessment of Bank and Grantee Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The strengths of the original project design are:
•    Relevance. The project successfully contributed to the further development of PNPM, as
     outlined in the Government’s roadmap for the program, and supported community development




                                                    15
     and promoted environmental sustainability in line with the Bank’s 2009-2012 CPS for
     Indonesia.
•    Robustness. The pilot “KDP and Environment in Sulawesi? provided valuable lessons which
     were incorporated into PNPM Green design, notably by including suitable environmentally-
     supportive income-generating activities. In addition, the project was started first in these three
     Sulawesi provinces, before expanding to Sumatra.
•    Flexibility. The Grant Agreement stipulated general principles, while detailed implementation
     arrangements were described in a project manual prepared by PMD. This provided GoI and the
     Bank the flexibility to modify implementation arrangements in response to changing
     circumstances. This was especially important because a major part of the financing of the
     project was not secured during the initial years of implementation.
The weaknesses of the original project design are:
•    Inadequate framework for monitoring and evaluation. During the first three years of project
     implementation, there were no outcome indicators to measure progress towards achievement of
     the PDO. Instead project progress was measured against four intermediate RIs. The baseline
     study was deemed inadequate to provide a basis for assessing the project’s impact.
    Complex financing and implementation arrangements. PNPM Green relied on several trust
     funds which were mobilized at different times and combined government, CSO and PSF
     executed activities. While this funding mix enabled PNPM Green to largely achieve its
     objective, it made implementation arrangements complicated, e.g., the CSOs initially reported
     only to PSF and GoI considered that PSF was responsible for monitoring. PNPM Green was
     implemented by a different sub-directorate from PNPM Rural, which led to a duplication of
     consultants and systems. Because of a lack of integration of CDD projects at the central
     government level, implementing partners at the sub-national government level (kabupaten,
     kecamatan and communities) were faced with an unnecessarily high administrative burden.
    There was little information available in the Bank’s records to document preparation and
     appraisal of the project, although the Grant Funding Request was approved as required.
     Concept discussions with GoI and development partners continued immediately after signing of
     the grant agreement and an expanded project concept note was presented to the JMC in April
     2009.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Bank performance was moderately unsatisfactory, in part because this project had several TTLs over
its lifetime which led to incremental changes in the project concept and an absence of strategic
leadership. Such leadership would have been particularly helpful because PNPM Green was a pilot
project that had complex institutional and funding arrangements, and a relatively inexperienced
government counterpart, i.e. a separate sub-directorate from the one that had been responsible for
PNPM Rural. The Bank mobilized and maintained throughout implementation a multi-disciplinary
locally-based supervision team, with substantial experience in supervising PNPM Rural projects.
While the team had strong knowledge of CDD, and DANIDA and AusAID provided technical
experts, only one of PSF’s team leaders had expertise in natural resources management. The team
included fiduciary and safeguards staff who reported findings and mitigation measures agreed with
PMD in the aide-memoires.




                                               16
Starting in December 2011, supervision missions were conducted for the overall PNPM Green
program, reviewing the implementation of GoI and CSO activities, monitoring compliance with
covenants in the grant agreement, and measuring progress against intermediate result indicators.
Significantly, the Bank did not request PMD to issue quarterly progress reports until 2011.
Progress was initially recorded in the annual GRM (as required for TF projects). Once Bank
mainstreamed investment lending procedures for TF projects, reporting requirements and the
processing of the Additional Financing followed Bank investment lending procedures. .

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The intense involvement in project preparation and supervision, and frank supervision reporting were
the strengths of the Bank’s overall performance. However, these strengths were partially offset by a
fragmented approach to implementation support and late verification of compliance with grant
covenants.

5.2 Grantee Performance
(a) Performance of the Government
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Throughout project implementation, the overall PNPM program enjoyed strong support of the
Government. However, the Government did not adequately address implementation issues (see Areas
for Improvement in Section 2.2) in a timely manner. These shortcomings were deemed moderate,
however, and the performance of the Government is consequently rated “moderately satisfactory?.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
PMD played an essential role in ensuring that the project was implemented as envisaged, although
project outcome is rated only moderately satisfactory. PMD failed to address the issues noted under
Areas for Improvement in Section 2.2 in a timely manner. Over time, most of these issues were
addressed, although project management by PMD remained weak throughout the implementation
period, particularly with regard to consultant recruitment and reporting. An agreement about the
extension of the project closing deadline could not be reached, despite prolonged discussion. On
balance, the performance of the Implementing Agency is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Grantee Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
GoI showed strong ongoing support to the objectives and implementation of PNPM Green and the
project was managed reasonably well by the Implementing Agency. The overall performance of the
Borrower/Grantee is rated “moderately satisfactory?.

6.   Lessons Learned
    As a pilot project, Green PNPM have shown that mainstreaming environmental issues into
     PNPM Rural have increased the community’ s awareness and understanding on natural
     resources management. However, in order to reach sustainable utilization of natural resources, a
     longer time frame is needed. The impact of the pilot on improvement and restoration of the


                                               17
      natural resources (ecosystem) can be evaluated after a certain period of time. There should be a
      window of time to conduct a proper evaluation, since environmental projects have long term
      impact.
     Income-generating and cost-saving sub-projects are more sustainable than other sub-projects. In
      most project locations, tree planting on private land and small business development were
      highly profitable. This was not the case for sub-projects involving ecosystem protection or
      rehabilitation, which were often seen as “cash for work? programs, and whose long-term
      sustainability remains unclear.
     Income-generating and cost-saving sub-projects often result in inequitable benefit sharing.
      PNPM Green financed investments which would only benefit a small number of individuals
      (such as tree planting on private land or the procurement of biogas installations). Although
      profit-sharing arrangements were usually put in place to distribute the benefits of income-
      generating sub-projects equitably, the recording of revenues and expenditures was inadequate.
     The annual block grant cycle is often incompatible with the financing requirements of green
      sub-projects. GoI disbursement procedures do not allow funding of a sub-project during
      multiple years, even though environmentally sustainable sub-projects often require a funding
      period greater than the annual budget cycle. As a result, communities tended to select sub-
      projects which could be completed in one budget cycle. In addition, timely disbursements of
      block grants are essential for success, as late disbursements often forced communities to
      undertake sub-projects in very short timeframes, or during a season not suited for planting.
     The quality of facilitators is the main driver of community-based project implementation
      quality. For this reason, it is essential that the Government (i) offer competitive salaries and
      adequate allowances to facilitators, (ii) ensure that vacant facilitator positions are promptly
      filled, and (iii) provide good quality training to facilitators.
     PNPM Green mobilized several trust funds, all of which contributed to the overall objective of
      the program and enabled CSOs to contribute to effective implementation. However the
      multiplicity of TFs also led to a complex management structure and multiple reporting
      requirements.
     Procedures for community procurement were based on the operations manual of PNPM Rural,
      and could have been further strengthened if they had been derived based on prevailing
      community practice. Steps have now been taken in PNPM Rural to substantially strengthen the
      procedures for community-level procurement to focus on achieving value for money while
      ensuring transparency and accountability.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a)   Grantee/Implementing agencies
Overall the Implementation Completion Report prepared by PMD is agreed with, cf. Annex 7.
PMD raised concerns regarding the processing of a ‘No Cost Extension’. Over several months
discussions took place with the implementing agency, Ministry of Finance, Bappenas, and PSF
but PMD did not submit the final request on time to be included in the FY 2013 budget
document (DIPA) which means that remaining project funds could not be programed. PMD also
commented that PSF’s implementation support was stronger for project management than for
RM and RE issues. This is acknowledged and reflected in the rating for the Bank’s supervision



                                                18
effort, cf Section 5.1 (b). The draft ICR was shared with MOHA-PMD which did not have any
comments.
(b) Cofinanciers/Development Partners
Comments were received from AusAID, cf Annex 8. AusAID congratulates both PMD and the PSF
for taking on this challenging but important activity. It believes that the benefits and lessons learned
justify the investment, particularly if follow-on work can now contribute more effectively towards
community level resource management and livelihoods development. Given the government’s
overarching commitment to sustainable livelihoods through MP3KI, these lessons should also
contribute to Bappenas’s ongoing thinking over where to invest in future livelihoods work. AusAID
fully supports the idea to mainstream the lessons learned from this pilot into the main PNPM Rural
program. In AusAID’s view the final ICR or some other document need to address more directly and
with more precision how those lessons will be incorporated into the main PNPM program. The team
agrees with these comments but further discussions are needed with Bappenas and PMD before the
ideas for mainstreaming can be detailed further. This work is now underway, with the preparation of
the concept paper for rural livelihoods and revisions of the operations manual for PNPM Rural. The
funds which at project closing had not been disbursed will be returned to the PSF parent trust fund.

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders
On February 18, 2013, PSF organized a stakeholder workshop to discuss project implementation
experiences and lessons learned. Refer to Annex 6 for a summary of the key issues raised during this
workshop.




                                                19
                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                            Actual/Latest
                               Original                          Percentage of Revised
          Components                        Estimate (US$
                              Allocation                                 Total
                                              millions)
 Block Grants for Natural        12.5            25.5                       49%
 Resource Management
 and Renewable Energy
 Facilitation Support             3.5               7.0                     50%
 Total Baseline Cost             16.0              32.5                     49%
 Physical Contingencies            -                 -                        -
 Price Contingencies               -                 -                        -
 Total Project Costs             16.0              32.5                     49%


(b) Financing

                              Appraisal
                                           Actual/Latest
                              Estimate                          Percentage of Revised
      Source of Funds                        Estimate
                                (US$                                    Total
                                           (US$ millions)
                              millions)
Grantee                            -                        -           -
Communities                      0.0                      1.8         100%
PSF                             16.0                  30.7            52%
            Total Financing     16.0                  32.5            49%




                                              20
                                  Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Community Block Grants. This component provided block grants to finance
competitively selected block grant proposals for investments – described and illustrated in Table A2.3
– in (i) conservation, (ii) rehabilitation, (iii) income-generating activities, (iv) renewable energy, and
(v) capacity building. During 2010-2012, the project financed over 1,800 proposals in 78 kecamatan
in 27 kabupaten throughout Sulawesi and Sumatra. Average block grant amounts per sub-project
ranged from IDR32 million (US$3,500) for capacity building to over IDR300 million (US$34,500)
for renewable energy. The average amount for renewable energy sub-projects was high because this
category included block grants for relatively more expensive micro-hydropower schemes. Over half
of the total block grant amount was allocated to renewable energy, followed by income-generating
activities and conservation (Table A2.1).

                    Table A2.1: Types of Infrastructure Financed by the Project
                                                             Block Grants                Block Grant/
         Sub-project               Number of
                                                                                         Sub-project
           Class                  Sub-projects        US$ million        %Total           (‘US$ ‘000)
Conservation                            575               5.17                20                9.0
Rehabilitation                          128               1.41                  6              11.0
Income-generating activities            616               5.11                20                8.3
Renewable energy                        342              13.25                52               38.7
Capacity building                       150               0.60                  2               4.0
TOTAL                                  1,811             25.53               100               14.1
Source: Project MIS (31 December 2012)

The total number of project beneficiaries was estimated at about 893,000, which was 2.1% lower
than the target of 912,000. The number of beneficiaries from conservation and income-generating
activities was estimated at over 680,000, or approximately 75% of the total. As targeted, women
accounted for about 50.0% of the total number of project beneficiaries, with little variation across
sub-project classes (Table A2.2). The average number of beneficiaries was highest for conversation
sub-projects (644) and lowest for capacity building sub-project (258). For all sub-project classes, the
block grant amount per beneficiary ranged from US$14,000 to US$21,000, except for renewable
energy, where the average amount was substantially higher because of investments in MHP schemes
(about US$127,000). In spite of the high average cost per beneficiary, most MHP schemes were
economically feasible (mainly because of high fuel cost savings; see Annex 3 for details). This
suggests that the benefits––expressed in US$ per beneficiary––were also substantially higher for
renewable energy than for other subsectors.




                                                 21
                                   Table A2.2: Project Beneficiaries
                                       Project Beneficiaries            Beneficiaries/     Block Grant/
           Sub-project
                                                       Women as          Sub-project        Beneficiary
             Class                 Total (‘000)
                                                        % Total           (average)         (‘US$ ‘000)
Conservation                           370.4               49.8%             644                  14.0
Rehabilitation                          67.0               48.5%             524                  21.0
Income-generating activities           313.0               49.8%             508                  16.3
Renewable energy                       104.0               51.0%             304                127.4
Capacity building                       38.7               51.0%             258                  15.4
TOTAL                                  893.0               50.0%             493                  28.6
Source: Project MIS (31 December 2012)

                  Table A2.3: PNPM Green Sub-projects and Activity Categories
 Categories                Main Objective of                        Examples
                       Sub-Projects or Activities


Conservation     To protect and conserve the condition of     Forest management, water resource
                 local environmental and natural              management, coastal area management,
                 resources                                    Marine Protection Areas (MPAs)

Rehabilitation   To rehabilitate the condition of local       Reforestation, land rehabilitation, planting
                 environmental and natural resources          trees along the river bank, erosion control

Income           To utilize local natural resources in a      Fish farming, seaweed cultivation, fish
Generating       sustainable way for the purpose of           aggregating devices (FADs, such as
Activities       generating income or improving the           rumpon), agro-forestry, fruit tree nurseries,
(IGA)            local economy                                fruit tree planting, organic fertilizer
                                                              production

Renewable        To use or generate renewable energy          Micro-Hydropower (MHP), Photo-voltaic
Energy           and reduce pollution and greenhouse gas      power (solar cell), bio-gas, fuel efficient
                 emissions                                    stove production

Capacity         To improve capacities and skills in          Training for community and local
building         managing and maintaining local natural       government officials
                 resources.



Component 2: Technical Assistance
A Project Management Unit (PMU) was established in PMD, which provided technical assistance at
the national level through a National Management Consultant as well as consultants and facilitators
at the provincial, kabupaten and kecamatan level. This component financed 160 consultants to assist
with various aspects of project implementation as well as workshops. The outcome was the provision
of the technical assistance needed to properly manage the project and monitor and coordinate


                                                  22
facilitators at the local level. The main shortcoming in this component was the delay and difficulty in
hiring local facilitators, which in turn adversely affected early implementation progress as well as the
quality of compliance with FM requirements.




                                                23
Table A2.4: Key Performance Indicators (status as of 31 December 2012) 9
    No                         INDICATORS                               Target Values Achievement
     OUTCOME INDICATORS
 1) Increased number of environmentally sound and/or natural                   1,415           1,811
     resource management sub-projects implementation by
     communities in target locations
 2) Increase number of households deriving energy from renewable             32,300           36,277
     sources
     INTERMEDIATE RESULT INDICATORS
 1. Increased community investments in and improved management of ‘green sub-projects’
 a) Increased amount of Block Grant funding disbursed to finance           US$ 26.0        US$ 23.6
     community-selected ‘green sub-projects’ in target sub-districts        million          million
 b) Increased number of renewable energy (RE) projects financed               185       411 (162 MHP
     through PNPM and being properly managed by participating                            249 other RE)
     communities (disaggregated by RE technology type)
 c) Increased number of households receiving electricity through            22,800          26,172 10
     PNPM-financed MHP schemes
 d) Increased number of households receiving at least 50 watts of            95%         > 95% (based
     electricity through PNPM-financed                                                      on NMC
     MHP schemes                                                                           estimates)
 e) Community contributions comprise 5% of the total budgets of          5% for MHP, 3% for MHP,
     MHP schemes financed with block grants, and comprise 15% of         15% for other 13% for other
     all other types of ‘green sub-projects’ financed with block grants types of ‘green types of ‘green
                                                                         sub-projects’ sub-projects’ 11
 2. Increased capacity of local government and community representatives to further
     incorporate environmental issues into local development planning, implementation, and
     monitoring processes
 a) Increased number GOI-contracted consultants/ facilitators with            169              160
     increased capacity to assist communities in NRM/environmental
     planning
 b) Level of community satisfaction with quality of NRM TA                   70%          66% (based
     provided by Recipient contracted consultants / facilitators                          on sample)
 c) Villagers in target sub-districts which demonstrate that ‘green          80%             100%
     sub-projects’ are aligned with mid-term development plans
     (RPJM-Desa)
 d) Increase in community and local government awareness of links            70%              n/a 12
     between improved NRM practices and enhanced livelihood
 e) Sustained community maintenance of ‘green sub-projects’ after            75%              n/a 13
     annual block grant funding is fully disbursed
Source: Project MIS, except where noted otherwise


9
  The target values and achievements report on CIDA and PSF-funded activities.
10
   21,567 households received MHP-generated electricity at the end of the project and an additional 4,606
households will be connected once the remaining 35 schemes are completed (expected fall 2013).
11
   The achievement values (percentage of community contributions) may increase subject to the completion of the
remaining MHP schemes
12
   Studies were planned to be conducted by the executing agency during a no-cost extension in 2013 which was not
agreed between MOHA and PSF.
13
   ibid


                                                     24
                                 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction. In 2012 PSF commissioned a study on the return on investment and cost effectiveness
of MHP sub-projects financed by PNPM Green. 14 This annex summarizes the final report of the
consultant, which contains an analysis of the return on investment and cost-effectiveness of a sample
of 15 MHP sub-projects, of which 11 were located in Sulawesi and four in Sumatra. Ten of the
(mostly larger) 15 sub-projects were supported by TSU.
Key findings.
•     MHP plants financed by PNPM Green are cost-effective. The average capital cost per MHP
installation in the sample was about US$55,000, and the average cost per kW of installed capacity is
about US$3,500 (the average cost of TSU-supported sub-projects is slightly higher than for smaller
sub-projects without TSU support). This compares favorably to the capital cost per installed capacity
of MHP plants developed elsewhere in Indonesia (US$2000-US$10,000/kW for installed capacity
between 5kW to 30kW).
•     Community contributions are of some significance for smaller MHP plants. The average in-kind
contribution to TSU-supported MHP plants was equivalent to about 2% of the total capital cost; for
smaller sub-projects not supported by TSU, the share was about 9%. Community contributions
lowered the capital investment needed from external sources, thereby further improving cost-
effectiveness.
•     All MHP plants surveyed recorded operating profits. In all 15 sample sites, revenue from
electricity tariffs fully covered operational expenditures. On average, the operating profit of an MHP
scheme is 35%.
•     MHPs are economically feasible because of fuel cost savings. Cashflow analysis suggests that
most of the MHP schemes under PNPM Green are economically feasible only when fuel cost saving
is taken into account and major repairs are excluded. (When fuel cost savings are factored in the
calculation, 13 out of 14 sites show positive results. This indicates that MHP plants would be unable
to cover the full capital and O&M cost from tariff revenue. MHP schemes in rural communities are
not expected to be profitable investments because they are the only option for supplying energy to
communities which are far removed from the national grid.
•    Economic benefits of MHP plants are significant and broad-based. Virtually all households
enjoy significant fuel cost savings thanks to the electrification of their village. Electricity also
increases economic productivity, for example, the provision of inexpensive electrical light allows
shops to stay open in the evening, and enables children to study during the evening.
•    Economic benefits may not be realized in full because of inadequate design or O&M. Although
the majority of the schemes in the sample appears to be working well, the operations of some MHP
plants are adversely affected by incorrect technical designs (such as a mismatch between installed
capacity and actual water flow), and the absence of regular maintenance.




14
     Micro Hydro Power (MHP) Return of Investment and Cost Effectiveness Analysis. Castlerock Consulting Pte. Ltd.
     September 2012.


                                                      25
       Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
         Names                       Title              Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Scott Guggenheim        Lead Social Development        EASID   TTL
                        Specialist
Bolormaa Amgaabazar     Social Development             EASID   Project design
                        Specialist
Yogana Prasta           Operations Adviser             EACIF   Financial management
                                                               and disbursement
Sentot Surya Satria      Social Development            EASID   Project design
                         Specialist
Theresia Mariana Siregar Operations Analyst            EASID   Project costing
Unggul Suprayitno        Senior Financial              EASFM   Financial management
                         Management Specialist
Novira Asra              Financial Management          EASFM   Financial Management
                         Specialist
Vivianti Rambe           Environmental Specialist      EASES   Project design
Rizal Rivai              Senior Procurement            EASPR   Procurement
                         Specialist
Supervision /ICR
Susanne Holste           Lead Social Development       EASID   Operations
                         Specialist
Chloe Jane Olliver       Social Development            EASID   Co-TTL
                         Specialist
John Victor Bottini      Senior Social Development     EASID   Operations
                         Specialist
Sentot Surya Satria      Senior Social Development     EASID   Project design
                         Specialist
Jeremy Foster            Program Coordinator           EASID   Project design
Prianto Wibowo           Operations Analyst            EASID   Operations
Griya Rufianne           Operations Analyst            EASID   Operations
Vivianti Rambe           Consultant                    EASID   Monitoring and evaluation
Ahsan Ali                Lead Procurement Specialist   EASPR   Procurement
Achmad Zacky Wasaraka Procurement Specialist           EASPR   Procurement
Unggul Suprayitno        Senior Financial              EASFM   Financial management
                         Management Specialist
Festina Lavida           Financial Management          EASID   Financial management
                         Specialist
André Oosterman          Consultant                    EASID   ICR author




                                             26
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                    Staff Time and Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                                          US$ Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Preparation
 FY08                     Total:             4.6                           6.65
                             Total:          4.6                           6.65
Supervision/ICR
 FY09                                       58.0                          49.74
 FY10                                      147.4                         269.90
 FY11                                      117.6                         191.97
 FY12                                       56.6                         172.75
 FY13                                       56.5                         170.94
                             Total:        436.1                         855.53




                                        27
                                   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Introduction. In 2012, PSF commissioned two studies to assess the impacts of PNPM Green on
intended beneficiaries. The first study assessed the impacts of the project on the livelihood of
beneficiaries through focus group discussions and interviews with over 900 respondents in 50
villages in five provinces covered by PNPM Green. The objective of the second study was to assess
the spillover effects of the project through a qualitative analysis of four types of sub-projects in eight
pilot villages in four different provinces . The results of the two beneficiary surveys are summarized
below.

(a) Executive Summary of “Results Evaluation of PNPM Green Sub-Projects: An Economic
and Livelihood Analysis? 15
This study was commissioned to provide an analysis of economic, environmental, and social benefits
of the project.
The study was undertaken through extensive fieldwork combining household interviews, focus group
discussions, and key information interviews at village, sub-district (Kecamatan), and province levels.
Data was supplemented with information from the MIS of PNPM Green. The data were analyzed
directly and through computation of expected future benefits.

PNPM Green aims at improving environmental and Natural Resources Management as well as the
associated governance, while at the same time increasing the incomes for households and poor
communities and empowering local groups which prepare and execute the sub-projects. The study
used the livelihoods concepts of financial, natural, human, and social assets as well as ‘influence and
access’.

There are positive results on household financial assets, both in terms of direct income - mainly from
selling products - and savings related to reduction in household expenditures. Even stronger positive
results are expected in future, as expressed by the households and as estimated quantitatively.

Beneficiary participation level is likely to be higher if a sub-project: conforms to the urgent needs of
the participants’ livelihoods; provides immediate benefits to the community; supports increase in
direct household incomes in the communities; is supported by local values, local regulations, or local
knowledge; and is co-facilitated by community leaders and local government officials.

Some of the PNPM Green sub-projects support income-generating activities. These are often
successful, but mainly at the household level where households reported increased income from, for
example, selling fruits or fish. It appears that few viable businesses have been established. Household
assets also increase through Renewable Energy projects that reduce expenditures.

The capacity building activities of PNPM Green are generally quite effective and are appreciated by
beneficiaries, who generally apply the skills they have learned. They also find the materials used
instructive. Human assets such as knowledge and skills of beneficiaries and persons involved in
project execution have increased through participating, sharing, and formalized capacity building.


15
     Results Evaluation of PNPM Green Sub-projects: An Economic and Livelihood Analysis. LPM Equator and
     Steffen Johnsen. October 2012.


                                                    28
The study finds that 66% of households reported that capacity building by PNPM Green has had a
positive effect on their involvement in the project and 65% make use of the skills they acquired
through capacity building. Of these, 44% use the new skills directly.

An important goal of PNPM is empowerment of local communities, or improvement of social assets
and influence and access. The study finds that empowerment is happening mainly through
participation in the socialization stage (85% respondents have participated in socialization), and less
during the stage of proposal selection and maintenance of sub-projects. There are positive effects of
improved interactions with branches of government, and improved local governance of Natural
Resources Management. The latter is mainly the case in locations with pre-existing local knowledge
related to the environment for such governance. In such locations the sub-projects are generally also
more successful, and maintenance is better organized. Elite capture is low, but the involvement of
local leaders in mobilization is important.

This study found that over 33% of respondents note a positive change in women’s role in the local
community, and overwhelmingly they associate this change with PNPM Green.

The positive effects on natural assets (environment and natural resources) in terms of improved
environmental services are highly significant, but will mainly be felt a few years from now, as trees
and mangroves planted mature. The benefits are erosion control, improved protection against storms,
increased productivity of marine food webs, improvements in soil fertility, etc. Several of these have
positive effects on the local economy, both for households and for the community. Some also have
wider, positive effects on society as a whole.

The findings therefore confirm that PNPM Green is meeting its main objective of improving the
livelihoods of poor rural people, the rural environment, and natural resources.




                                                29
(b) Executive Summary of “Qualitative Study of Spillover Effects of PNPM Green Pilot
Projects? 16


The Spillover Effects Study has three goals:
1.     To identify the type of improvements generated by PNPM Green, especially on
       socioeconomic performance, natural resources, environmental management and quality of
       life. It also aims to promote medium-term village development plans (RPJMDes);
2.     To analyze how PNPM Green generates benefits for communities; and
3.     To assess the overall impact of PNPM Green sub-projects and activities, and make
       recommendations about future PNPM Green investments.

In this study, non-beneficiaries in pilot and non-pilot locations were invited to complete
questionnaires. These employed qualitative and quantitative approaches.

The scope of economic spillover effects on financial assets of non-beneficiaries is determined by the
adoption of PNPM Green practices and non-beneficiary involvement in sub-projects and activities.
Involvement in river conservation (Lubuk Larangan) provides additional income for households and
an additional source of fish-derived protein for the family. MPAs generated increased fish
populations and decreased fishing costs, travel distance, and fishing time. MHP schemes have
generated minimal benefit for non-beneficiaries due to limited turbine capacity. Training programs
generated no economic benefits because they were discontinued. The study found that economic
spillover provided relatively small increase in household income.

In terms of natural assets, diverse benefits are experienced by non-beneficiaries: increased number
and variety of fish (river conservation and MPA sub-projects), improved upstream ecosystems with
more tree planting (MHP sub-projects), improved coral reef quality (MPA sub-projects), and less
coastal erosion (mangrove planting).

The study also revealed that PNPM Green enhanced social assets for non-beneficiaries. This relates
to increased knowledge about environmental conservation, sustainability and NRM. The scope of
increased knowledge for non-beneficiaries could be increased if PNPM Green linked its sub-projects
and activities with existing local knowledge or wisdom, or existing community activities. Increased
knowledge also depends on the empowerment approach, and the effectiveness of village leaders and
facilitators.

In terms of natural resource-related governance, the study reveals that only limited benefits are
generated for non-beneficiaries. Only two study locations exhibited improvements in their natural
resource governance. The application of village regulations in the participating communities
(beneficiaries) has encouraged the non-beneficiaries to adopt similar regulations. The success of river
conservation, MPA and MHP sub-projects for participating communities has encouraged the


16
     Studi Kualitatif Efek Rembesan Pilot PNPM-Lingkungan Mandiri Perdesaan di Indonesia. Center for
     Agricultural and Rural Development Studies (CARDS), Pusat Studi Pembangunan Pertanian dan Pedesaan,
     Bogor Agricultural University. September 2012.




                                                  30
adoption of these types of sub-projects by the non-beneficiaries. In addition, qualitative analysis
suggests that an ecosystem unit approach may increase the rate of sub-project uptake by non-
beneficiaries and encourage inter-village collaboration. The sustainability of PNPM Green depends
on the success in strengthening institutions at both the village and the district levels.

Finally, the study recommends that:
• Social and environmental factors should be considered when determining types of sub-projects
    and sub-project locations;
• Local wisdom and knowledge of relevant sub-projects should be identified and supported during
    implementation;
• Informal village-level meetings should be conducted more frequently to encouarge sharing of
    information and ideas between beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries;
• Financial assets should be considered during the design and implementation of sub-projects;
• Sub-projects and activities that need technical support should focus on strengthening local
    communities (rather than relying on external facilitation); and
• Capacity building initiatives should also be targeted at the district and provincial level.




                                              31
                        Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

This annex summarizes the results of a workshop on the evaluation of PNPM Green, which was held
in Jakarta on March 18, 2013. The workshop was attended by representatives of the central
government, CSOs, development partners and consultants involved in the implementation of the
project.
The main conclusion of the workshop was that PNPM Green should be continued, but should be
more focused and better integrated with PNPM Rural. Apart from this main conclusion, the meeting
resulted in the following recommendations for the short and the medium terms:
•   Integration between PNPM Green and PNPM Rural is needed, but only at the national policy
    level, not at the district or sub-district level.
•   PNPM Green needs to be more focused.
•   The quality of facilitation and local leadership are critical success factors in project
    implementation.
•   Better verification and facilitation is needed to ensure equitable distribution of benefits.
•   Greater community awareness is needed to stimulate investment in new technologies.
•   Communities are prepared to invest themselves if a project fulfills their needs.
•   First give grants for new cost-recovery technologies, and then use RLF.
•   Ensure sustainability of green projects.
•   Ensure synergies between PNPM Green and PNPM Rural investments.
•   Evaluate first, then upscale.
•   Democratic voting for green projects does not automatically lead to optimal decisions.
•   In spite of the limitations, PNPM Green should be continued.
•   PNPM Green mainstreaming with all stakeholders is needed.
•   Facilitation and technical assistance is needed.




                                                  32
                      Annex 7. Grantee's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR

(a) Grantee’s Completion Report
Advancing an environmental agenda within the national community empowerment program in rural
area (PNPM-Rural) is an essential part of sustainable community development; and this was achieved
through PNPM Green-Decentralized Management of Natural Resource and Renewable Energy
TF093076- which was a multi donor funded project implemented during 2010-2012 by the
Government of Indonesia in eight provinces (4 provinces in Sumatra and 4 provinces in Sulawesi), 29
districts and78 sub districts. This report focuses more on outcomes of the project, PMD’s assessment
of project partners including the World Bank, PSF, donors, CSOs and TSU, as well as lessons
learned during preparation and implementation of the project.
The Project development objective of PNPM Green is to make utilization of natural resources by
local community sustainable. The objective is achieved through environmentally sound and/or natural
resource management subprojects (altogether there are 2,927 sub projects which exceeds the target
of 2,500 by end of 2012) that were implemented by communities in target location; and through the
use of renewable energy sources (36,277 households of 32,300 targeted by end of 2012).

In terms of the grant disbursement, about 93% of the grant (US$31,675,749 of US$34,000,000) was
disbursed and about US$ 23.6million were invested in community sub projects.

Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes of the project include: a) project design which
adopts PNPM Rural platform and expansion of the previously implemented CIDA funded KDP and
Environment in Sulawesi, b) earmarked block grants for NRM and MHP, c) government commitment,
d) CSO and TSU involvement, e) community participation, f) facilitation, g) access to information,
and h) weather condition which affects implementation of ‘green’ sub projects (e.g. tree planting that
needs specific weather).

In addition to the achieved PDO and intermediate outcomes, PNPM Green has spill-over effects
including increased knowledge on NRM and RE by communities and local government,
‘replication’ of PNPM Green sub projects in PNPM Rural and in PMD’s SDA Lestari Project
funded by the national budget. WCS’ study also calculated the potential reduction of GHG emission
from RE and NRM sub projects financed by PNPM Green (WCS has projected, that with the
assumption of 50% mortality rate of the trees within 15 years, the trees can contribute to carbon
sequestration of more than 818,170 ton equivalent CO2); and PNPM Green has resulted in further
discussions amongst PMD, PSF, CSOs, TSU and other stakeholders to continue and improve the pilot
project.




                                               33
The Directorate of Nature Resources and Appropriate Technology (SDATTG), under the Directorate
General of Community and Village Empowerment (PMD), Ministry of Home Affair was the
executing agency for PNPM Green, but involvement of the World Bank, PSF, CSOs, TSU and
donors played important roles in the preparation and implementation of the project.

Summary of main issues regarding the roles and performance of World Bank/PSF, Donors, CSOs
and TSU. as well as self evaluation of the Borrower’s performance are as follows:

-       Despite PSF important functioning roles in coordinating grants and supports from
development partners such as TSU for MHP, CSOs, and DANIDA technical support; Long and
bureaucratic grant administration, procurement and operational processes in the World Bank/PSF
and World Bank/PSF-driven project implementation as almost every stages of project
implementation has to be ‘approved’ or to have No-Objection Letters (NOLs) from the World Bank.

-      PMD has a serious concern regarding how the World Bank/PSF handled the proposed
No-Cost Extension of PNPM Green and PSF seems fail to maintain good coordination and
communication at the closing period of the project.

-        The role of the PSF in increasing the capacity of GOI as executing agency is very limited,
and only focused on operational and management issues of the project rather than on natural
resource management (NRM) and renewable energy (RE) which is the core business of the project.
However PSF provided support in the form of implementation support missions, aide-memoire, and
communication to public, and setting up the M&E, MIS as well as conducting analytical
works/studies.

-         PSF did not develop clear institutional setup especially on partnership between CSOs
and GOI. However, PMD observed that PNPM Green Task Team played an important role in
facilitating day-to-day communication between CSOs and PMD.

-        CSOs, which have different capacity and approaches, and TSU were regarded as
important, influencing and supportive stakeholders in the implementation of the project.
Close coordination at national and sub national level were well established, although some
improvement should have been made, such as clear coordinating line between CSOs and PMD, and
clearer and more transparent resources and information from TSU.

-       TSU is regarded as unsustainable institution and depends on fund support from donor and
not governed by the World Bank/PSF who coordinates PNPM Green grants

-        Donor involvement in project design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation varies.
However, CIDA and DANIDA contributed more in knowledge sharing with other projects, project
design and evaluation, and provision of training and capacity building to PNPM Green stakeholders,
including PMD, consultants and facilitators, and CSOs.

-       PNPM Green was considered as a pilot project of PNPM Rural. However, management set
up of PNPM Green was separated with PNM Rural in different directorate i.e. in the Directorate
SDATTG, since the Directorate SDATTG had more relevant roles and function with the pilot project.
However, this situation, made integaration of PNPM Green with PNPM Rural challenging.



                                              34
Main lessons learned of the project are:

1.    PNPM Green has responded to the immediate needs of communities for protection and
rehabilitation of essential ecosystem services, as well as the provision of productive services
(sustainable income generation and supply of renewable energy)
2. PNPM Green has been designed as a ‘one size fits all’ approach, with a somewhat rigid budget
structure that makes experimenting and deviations from the original plan very difficult
3.    The annual block grant cycle is often incompatible with the financing requirements of
biological natural resource management sub projects.
4. Developing partnership between CSOs or other institutions with PMD requires clear coordinating
line or agreements
5.    The creation of separate CDD projects increases administrative burden at sub-national
government level. Mitigation on negative impact of this situation should carefully be prepared in
project design
6. Increasing the capacity of existing and formal institutions should be the priority in developing
and implementing similar project/program rather than forming ad-hoc institutions
7.    Institutional arrangement of similar project/program at sub national level should ensure
involvement of local government planning and technical agencies (SKPD).
8. The quality of facilitators is the main driver of community-based project implementation quality
9. The right choice of CSO to promote awareness raising and capacity building for Green PNPM
is crucial to the success of the program
10. The “project culture? still very much prevalent among rural communities in Indonesia and
rural communities expect to be paid wages to contribute their labor to sub-projects
11. More sustainable ‘green’ sub projects often affected by clear roles and responsibility of specific
beneficiaries/community groups rather than separate roles of ad-hoc team in community as TPU,
TPK, and Tim Pemelihara (maintenance team)
12. To ensure effectiveness of PNPM Green investment in NRM/ conservation, sub projects should
consider natural resource/ conservation targets at landscape level and integrated in village
spatial planning.

Summary of main recommendations for the future ‘green’ investment in CDD program are:

1. Projects or programs that are advancing ‘green’ into CDD program should be encouraged to
achieve sustainability of natural resources and low emission development in rural area.
2. PNPM is a strategic platform in advancing NRM and RE in CDD program in Indonesia however
project cycle should consider multi-year financing of sub projects since annual block grant cycle is
often incompatible with the financing requirements of biological natural resource management sub
projects.




                                               35
3.   PSF should be more GOI-driven rather than World Bank-driven, in managing grants and
pioneering coordination amongst development partners in mainstreaming NRM and RE into CDD
program in Indonesia.
4.    Conservation CSOs/NGOs should be involved in partnership with GOI in designing and
implementing ‘green’ CDD project/program.
5. Adequate training on NRM and RE is required by ‘green’ CDD project facilitators as well as
local government staff. NRM & RE training modules and ‘Green’ facilitators from PNPM Green are
potential resources to be used in increasing the capacity of facilitators and local government officials.
6. To ensure effectiveness of ‘green’ CDD program/project, program/project investment should take
into account natural resource/ conservation targets at landscape level and/or integrate it in village
spatial planning.
7. Future ‘Green’ CDD should explore other concepts such as Payment for Environmental Services
(PES), Public-Private Partnership for a better design and implementation.
8. Future Green CDD program should focus more on increasing the capacity of existing and formal
institutions rather than forming ad-hoc institutions.




                                                 36
                                Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers

Comments from AusAID:

The single most important point is that AusAID fully supports the idea to mainstream the lessons
learned from this pilot into the main PNPM perdesaan. However, in our view the final ICR or some
other document needs to address more directly and with more precision how those lessons will be
incorporated into the main PNPM program. There are some good initial ideas in the ICR, but the
perhaps the final version can flesh these out further and tie them into PNPM’s roadmap and future
development more directly.

Other comments include:

· At the project closing (Dec 2012), $3.3 million allocated for Micro Hydro Power in Papua
remained unspent. What’s the plan for this remaining fund?

· Areas for Improvement (page 14):
    • Limited coordination between PNPM Green and PNPM Rural – i.e. Rural facilitators could
        have helped Green facilitators but they didn’t receive instruction to do so, lack of information
        exchange which limited mainstreaming of “Green? practices into rural.
    • Weaknesses in procurement procedures, practices and oversight mechanism i.e. sometimes
        it’s not transparent.
    • Late reporting i.e. PMD didn’t submit quarterly report until the 1st quarter of 2012
    • Late disbursement

Considering that PNPM Green is continuing but now as part of the main PNPM-perdesaan ,
how will those areas be improved in the future?

· Lessons learned (page 22):
    • PNPM Green has increased community’s awareness and understanding on natural resource
       management. However, the Green project time frame was too short and, thus, require longer
       time period for stronger sustainability;
    • Sub-projects of income generating activities (i.e. tree planting in private land and small
       business development) were highly profitable as compared to those involving ecosystem
       protection or rehabilitation, which were often seen as “cash for work? programs;
    • GoI annual budget cycle and late block grant disbursement don’t allow funding of sub-
       project during multiple years. As the result, communities tended to choose for projects that
       could be completed in one budget cycle;
    • The success of pilot project relies heavily on facilitators but there were concerns on their
       quality, competitiveness of salary package and GoI responsiveness to fill in empty positions
       of facilitators;
    • Multiplicity of Trust Funds led to a complex management structure and multiple reporting
       requirement;

The Evaluation Workshop , held in Jakarta on 8 March 2013, also concluded with a consensus that
there is a need for integration between PNPM Green and PNPM Rural (annex 6). However, the ICR
doesn’t clearly elaborate how these recommendations are moving forward or how they will be



                                                  37
transformed into clear sets of action. The idea that the major lessons from this program will be
captured and reflected into operational activities inside the main PNPM requires more detailed
elaboration, either here or in a free-standing brief that gets reflected in future PNPM support.

We would also like to congratulate the PNPM team – both PMD and the PSF – for taking on this
challenging but important activity. We believe that the benefits and lessons learned justify the
investment, particularly if follow-on work can now contribute more effectively towards community
level resource management and livelihoods development. Given the government’s overarching
commitment to sustainable livelihoods through MP3KI, these lessons should also contribute to
Bappenas’s ongoing thinking over where to invest in future livelihoods work.




                                              38
                            Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


•   Project Concept Note. Bappenas. June 2009
•   Project Concept Note. World Bank. May 2009.
•   Aide Memoires (various). World Bank. 2010-2012.

•   Implementation Status Reports (various). World Bank. 2010-2012.
•   Country Partnership Strategy for Indonesia FY2009-2012. World Bank. August 2008.

•   Quarterly Progress Reports. MoHA.
•   Annual Progress Reports. MoHA.
•   Project Paper on Proposed Grant in the Amount of US$ 18 Million to the Republic of Indonesia
    for Additional Financing from the PNPM Support Facility Trust Fund for a Decentralized
    Management of Natural Resources and Renewable Energy Project. World Bank. October 2011.

•   Technical Evaluation of Infrastructure – PNPM Rural & Other Funding Sources. PNPM Support
    Facility. May 2013.
•   Peta Jalan PNPM Mandiri – Menuju Keberlanjutan Program Pemberdayaan Masyarakat.
    Kelompok Kerja Pengendali Program Penanggulangan Kemiskinan Berbasis Pemberdayaan
    Masyarakat (PNPM Mandiri), Tim Nasional Percepatan Penanggulangan Kemiskinan (TNP2K).
    Jakarta, September 2012.

•   Micro Hydro Power (MHP) Return of Investment and Cost Effectiveness Analysis. Castlerock
    Consulting Pte Ltd. September 2012.
•   Studi Kualitatif Efek Rembesan Pilot PNPM-Lingkungan Mandiri Perdesaan di Indonesia.
    Center for Agricultural and Rural Development Studies (CARDS), Pusat Studi Pembangunan
    Pertanian dan Pedesaan, Bogor Agricultural University. September 2012.
•   Results Evaluation of PNPM Green Sub-projects: An Economic and Livelihood Analysis. LPM
    Equator and Steffen Johnsen. October 2012.




                                                39
Annex 10. PNPM Green Trust Funds and WBS Elements




                       40
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MEMORANDUM (ICM)

A. BASIC TRUST FUND INFORMATION
TF Name:               Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) in Sulawesi: Environmental
                       Training and Awareness Project
TF Number:             TF090912
TTL:                   Chloe Jane Olliver


TF Amount:             US $1,127,430
Recipient:             Wildlife Conservation Society
Donor:                 Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)


Activation Date:       October 31, 2007
Closing Date:          October 31, 2012



B. TRUST FUND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.       Original Trust Fund Development Objectives
The main objective of this project was to “implement the Training and Awareness component of
Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) in Sulawesi?. The Kecamatan Development Program
(KDP) was the predecessor to the current National Program for Community Empowerment (PNPM),
and an environmental agenda has been progressed under PNPM through the “Green KDP? (now
PNPM Green) special project in eight target provinces.
The Project Development Objective for PNPM Green is to make the utilization of natural resources
by rural communities sustainable. The objective is achieved through (i) mainstreaming natural
resource management issues in the community-driven development planning process, (ii) increasing
environmental awareness and related management capacity of communities and government
stakeholders, and (iii) the disbursement of block grants to fund environmentally supportive 'green'
projects at the sub-district (kecamatan) and district (kabupaten) level.
This Trust Fund supported technical assistance provided by the recipient: Wildlife Conservation
Society (WCS). The WCS was responsible for delivering environmental awareness-raising and
training activities to the pilot’s community beneficiaries and other sub-national stakeholders
including local government officials to assist in the design and implementation of viable ‘green’ sub-
projects.
There were no substantive changes to the development objective for this project.

2.       Original Trust Fund Activities/Components
The project consists of the following components and related activities:



                                                 41
(i)     Project management and initial assessment activities including (a) establishment of
coordination mechanisms with KDP coordinators and management consultants to integrate the
Project into the existing KDP structure and mechanisms; (b) establishment of focal points for the
project in each Participating Kabupaten; (c) carrying out of economic evaluation studies and training
needs assessments in each Participating Kabupaten; and (d) carrying out of monitoring and
evaluation activities, and compilation of reports on the progress of the Project for onward
transmission to the World Bank.
(ii)    Training including (a) preparation of modules for KDP-Sulawesi training and training
materials, including agro-forestry best practices, fishery best practices, development of community
regulations to manage natural resources, integrating environmental education with school
improvement projects; environmental risk assessment; local watershed management including micro-
hydro; pollution and waste management; and (b) training of facilitators at Kabupaten level.
(iii)   Awareness raising including (a) design and implementation of an awareness raising strategy
to address sustainable natural resource use and conservation issues in Participating Kabupaten; (b)
carrying out of an awareness media analysis and design of communication themes; (c) preparation of
local newsletters and making use of local billboards and media outlet; and (d) facilitating inter-
village exchanges, using existing Lestari multi-media approaches.
There were no substantive changes to the development objective for this project.

3.     Outcome Indicators
The original outcomes performance benchmarks for this project were:
(i)     Well trained KDP facilitators and other local KDP stakeholders, who can ignite and facilitate
‘green’ projects within the KDP, not limited to those within KDP-Sulawesi.
(ii)    Local community members, including women and children, who are aware of environmental
issues and sustainable natural resource decisions that they can participate in.
(iii)   Adoption by regional governments of natural resources governance issues as an integral part
of the policy development and decision making process.
(iv)   A sustainable capacity among both KDP facilitators and KDP stakeholders of all levels to
continue the implementation of locally-driven “green? development investment and to expand its
geographic coverage to new areas.
There were no substantive changes to the outcome indicators for this project.


4.     Other Significant Changes in Trust Fund Design
Significant changes made to this Trust Fund were amendments to extend the end date of the activity
by two years and two months, expand the number of kecamatan and kabupaten covered in the
province of North Sulawesi, and increase funding accordingly. The original end date was 30 August
2010, which was extended to 31 October 2012. The original Trust Fund amount was US $754,230,
which was increased to US $1,127,430 when the timeframe was extended.




                                                 42
C. OUTCOME
1.      Relevance of TF Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating - Satisfactory
The original Trust Fund objectives, design and implementation remain as relevant today to country
and global priorities - and to the Bank’s Country Partnership and Sector Strategies - as they were at
the outset of the project. The PNPM program is the flagship program under Cluster 2 of the
Government of Indonesia’s poverty reduction strategy. The program empowers villagers to exercise
their rights over matters of public interest and to be at the forefront of a locally managed, sustainable
development process. Indonesia is pursuing a triple track plus one development strategy: Pro-
growth, pro-job, pro-poor, and pro-environment. The National Medium-Term Development Plan
(2010 – 2014) recognizes that environmental challenges threaten the sustainable development of the
country, and various studies have outlined the opportunity costs to Indonesia of poor management of
its natural resource wealth, exacerbated by the costs of climate change.                  Advancing an
environmental agenda under this project has been an essential part of addressing priority poverty
alleviation objectives through supporting environmentally sustainable, community-driven
development.
The World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS FY2009-2012) for Indonesia has emphasized
investing in Indonesia’s institutions for inclusive and sustainable development. In addition to its
cross-cutting governance agenda, the CPS identified five thematic areas that informed the core of the
Bank’s engagement in Indonesia under this CPS: (a) private sector development; (b) infrastructure;
(c) community development and social protection; (d) education; and (e) environmental sustainability
and disaster mitigation.      This project has continued to address key issues of environmental
sustainability and community development in rural villages, as well as alternative income generation
and institutional capacity building.


2.      Achievement of TF Development Objective
Rating - Satisfactory
The development objective of this Trust Fund was achieved, with the training and awareness raising
activities undertaken by WCS leading to program facilitators and other stakeholders proposing and
successfully delivering over 2,900 green activities against a target of 2,500. This demonstrates that
stakeholders have been able to ignite and facilitate relevant natural resource management (NRM),
renewable energy (RE), and income generating activities.
WCS has delivered technical assistance to communities to support villages to develop more
sustainable village development pans (RPJM-Des), and based on these plans, to propose and manage
the implementation of these activities. Taking a thematic rather than geographical approach to their
support, WCS identified local potential that they could support by leveraging their comparative
advantage in key theme areas. The six themes that WCS maintained throughout the program were:
clean drinking water, NRM management, cattle rearing, coral reef protection, human-animal conflict,
and protection areas.
WCS delivered considerable Information, Education, Communication (IEC) campaigns and have
tracked and analyzed the impact of these campaigns on community decision-making. They establish
a clear link between increasingly diverse ‘green’ activities selected by communities, and the
awareness-raising regarding these activities that WCS undertook under this Trust Fund. WCS media


                                                   43
campaigns used a variety of forms including radio, film, mobile exhibition vehicles, campaign
billboards and newsletter, etc. Through their local partners, WCS established activity demonstration
plots (demplots), and provided on-the-job technical training to community members and other
stakeholders in the implementation and management of green activities such as bio-gas production,
alternative crop production, and so on. All of the demplot activities established under this Trust
Fund were chosen as some stage by communities as PNPM Green Block Grant activities. This is a
testament to the quality of WCS’ pre-assessment, trialing and analysis of demonstration activities
prior to scaling up the demplots.
The 2009 Grant Reporting and Monitoring (GRM) for this Trust Fund notes a tangible improvements
in coordination efforts by WCS with government program partners and other stakeholders. The
2011 GRM notes that PNPM Rural facilitators found the involvement of WCS in target areas helpful,
and WCS reports their consistent engagement with sub-national and national level government
partners in their activities throughout the program period. WCS increased the capacity of PNPM
facilitators to manage basic training and awareness-raising in environmental issues and safeguards
themselves. They also supported PNPM Rural facilitators and sub-national government Work Units
through the provision of training modules and manual on environmental principles and the activity
cycle for PNPM Green.
Unlike the other CSO engaged under PNPM Green to deliver similar outcomes in a different
location, WCS always maintained that their primary role was to work with communities, and to
support communities to increasingly engage with program and other government stakeholders. WCS
did push government contracted facilitators to uphold their responsibilities, and did not appear to try
to substitute for gaps when they appeared, maintaining a clear focus on their specific role.


3.     Efficiency
Rating - Satisfactory
The project was well managed and coordinated, and funds were utilized efficiently by WCS to
achieve the program objectives. Given the nature of the activities supported by this Grant, neither
economic nor financial rates of return can be computed, but survey data is included in the section
below on Development Impact.
The project was completed slightly under budget and within a timeline that was acceptable to the
donor and PSF. Extensions for 18 months were requested and approved by PSF. These extensions
were granted to compliment the extension by Government of Indonesia of the main component of the
program – the disbursement of Block Grants to rural communities to undertake “green? activities.


4.     Development Impacts, including those that are Unintended/Unrelated to TF Objectives
Rating - Satisfactory
As is evidenced by the relevance of this Trust Fund, as well as the recipient’s efficiency in achieving
the development objectives of the Grant Agreement, WCS has achieved significant development
impact through this Trust Fund. A recent analysis of the economic, environmental and social
benefits of PNPM Green (Economic and Livelihood Report, 2012) shows that 66% of the almost
1,000 households interviewed for this study said that capacity building endeavors had a positive
impact on their involvement in the program. Further, 65% of respondents said that they make use of
the skills they acquired during capacity building.



                                                  44
As outlined above, village development planning processes have become more environmentally
sustainable as a result of the program, and communities have become increasingly confident to
propose and implement a more diverse range of green activities. Not only have community resources
been mobilized to support program investments, but contributions have also been received from other
sources. Notable, WCS has made significant links between local communities and the private sector
(especially in eco-tourism), which increases development impact and outcome sustainability.
Particularly important has been the increased knowledge base developed in North Sulawesi, anchored
in village “study centers? supported through the sub-national PIU as well as in WCS’ local
community based organizations (CBOs) partners. Interestingly, WCS took a “cascade? approach to
providing capacity building and awareness-raising in the field, which meant that they identified and
worked through local CBOs rather than recruiting and mobilizing facilitators themselves. This
enabled them to increase their coverage and entrench capacity in local organizations. It is clear that
WCS has invested much in developing the management capacity and technical skills of these partner
CBOs, and has also invested in increasing capacity in issues such as gender inclusion and safeguards.
WCS consistently provided gender disaggregated data for their program, and by the end of the
program, report that they have provided technical assistance to over 10,000 female beneficiaries in
North Sulawesi and that 45% of all attendees at training in North Sulawesi were women. Further,
WCS has supported the development of a women’s small business network and supported women to
train other women’s groups in surrounding areas to establish similar small businesses.


5.     Overall Trust Fund Outcome
Overall rating - Satisfactory
Overall, the rating for this Trust Fund is satisfactory. This is because WCS continued to deliver
activities that contributed to the efficient achievement of the Project Development Objective, leading
to a positive development impact. The relevance of the Trust Fund objective has increased, if
anything, over the time of the Trust Fund.



D. Risk to Development Outcome
1.     Follow-On Results and/or Investment Activities
Grant Funds are being sought for a follow on activity, the objective of which is to progress
environmental sustainability across the PNPM Rural program in an integrated and measurable
manner i.e. to mainstream the outcomes of the PNPM Green pilot across the PNPM Rural program.
Central to the follow on activity will be to support the provision of supplementary, specialist
environmental technical assistance to rural communities and sub-national stakeholders, much as
WCS has done under this Trust Fund. This project has provided good lessons and models for
delivering the supplementary technical assistance proposed for the follow on activity and therefore
will assist in garnering support for the follow on activity. In particular, by approaching the program
through a “thematic? lens and working through local CBOs in a cascading approach to delivering
technical assistance on the ground, WCS has provided alternative models for the provision of sector-
specific support to that provided by the other CSO.


Activity/Investment:


                                                 45
___ Recipient/Other Investment; _X_ Grant Project/Program; __ Bank Project; __ IFC Financial
Project/Activity


2.     Replicability
This Trust Fund demonstrated that specialized, sector-based technical assistance can be provided to
communities through appropriate CSOs and can supplement PNPM Rural facilitators to support the
achievement of sector-specific outcomes.
This Trust Fund has also demonstrated that the provision of awareness raising and sector-specific
training can inspire and support sustainable investments in relevant activities by communities. This
is particularly relevant for the future of PNPM Rural and CDD programs more broadly as they
continue to evolve and incorporate multi-sectoral outcomes. This is important in a context where
small-scale infrastructure has traditionally dominated these program outcomes.


3.     Overall Risk to Development Outcome
Rating – Moderate
Understanding the high likelihood that income generating outcomes would be sustained for
considerable periods of time by program participants due to vested self-interest, from the outset WCS
prioritized support to activities that would bring income into communities. For example, by
supporting communities to establish village nurseries, those communities have generated income
from improved harvest of better crop varieties as well as from selling saplings and seedlings.
However, for some tree planting and ecosystem services activities, it is not clear to what extent these
will be sustained beyond the project cycle as it appears these sorts of activities have sometimes been
treated as “cash for work? schemes by communities. Where communities are able to articulate the
cost benefits that investments in ecosystem services bring in terms of disaster mitigation - especially
communities that have lost much in storm surge, erosion, landslide and other disasters resulting from
degraded environmental services – these investments are likely to be sustained.
For Renewable Energy investments, it is clear that communities which have electricity for the first
time highly value it, and even more so when they understand the cost savings involved in renewable
sources compared to being connected to the grid. WCS has invested in developing simple standards
and guidance for the establishment of bio-gas digesters when has led to communities replicating
these renewable energy sources in North Sulawesi using their own finances.
Other risks to development outcome include changing political priorities and decreased political
commitments to environmental sustainability. However, WCS supported communities to link up
with local government programs to maximize ongoing support for investments, for example, in
linking numerous village activities to the broader provincial Eco-tourism Strategy in North Sulawesi
as well as to private businesses such as dive resorts.
Technical capacity could pose a risk to sustainability of development outcomes for some activities,
however, WCS has invested in developing the capacity of local CBO partners, in community cadres,
and in a network of skilled resource persons – utilized by WCS as trainers and demonstration model /
plot managers under the program. Further, their cascade approach to support and strengthen local
CBOs to deliver activities in the field will mitigate risks to development outcomes. Particular
important is that some of their CBO partners have successfully attracted funding sources.




                                                  46
As with all environmental programs, outcomes are often at risk of natural disasters, a frequent
occurrence throughout Indonesia. These risks are often known by communities before they invest in
programs and are therefore factored into decision-making at the outset.



E. PERFORMANCE
1.      Performance of the Bank
Rating – Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU)
Bank performance was moderately unsatisfactory, in part because this program has had a number of
different TTLs over its lifetime which led to incremental changes in the concept of the program, and
for this recipient, changes in the way performance indicators were tracked and reported on, with the
reporting template being changed in mid-2011. These changes did better link CSO reporting to the
overall PNPM Green Project Development Objective, but posed challenges for the Recipient in terms
of consistency of progress tracking and reporting. The ultimate success of the Trust fund is a credit
to the management within the CSO, which continued to implement activities in the field in their
interpretation of what was necessary and possible, in line with the Project Development Objective.
An ongoing challenge for the Bank has been a lack of strategic cohesion, although this is not entirely
negative given that PNPM Green was piloting a number of approaches. When the concept of
addressing the environment through PNPM was first mooted the team looked at ways of integrating
environmental objectives through the PNPM Rural program. For a number of reasons, but in
particular due to the administrative complexities and management capacity weaknesses of PNPM
Rural, the environment pilot has ultimately replicated many of the PNPM Rural structures and
processes rather than being integrated into them.
The lack of strategic cohesion has led to changes in the way WCS was asked to track and report on
performance indicators. However, the Bank did undertake an Implementation Supervision Mission
in mid-2011 together with both CSOs during which various changes were collaboratively developed
and tested, the results of which were subsequently implemented by the CSO.
Some quantitative targets were set for WCS in 2009, although this was modified when the reporting
format was changed in 2011. This hampers the ability to clearly demonstrate results. Further,
although a baseline for the whole program (not just this Trust Fund) of sorts was conducted, it was
deemed inadequate very soon after it was completed. No subsequent baseline was conducted.
The project start up was not managed well by PSF. WCS was mobilized in the field to support the
communities to manage activities funded by block grants 18 months before the funding actually
arrived in the communities which caused problems.
Finally, there have not been sufficient field missions over the life of the program to verify the
outcomes and activities reporting on by the Recipient. This issue was raised in a number of Aide
Memoire.


2.      Recipient

Rating - Satisfactory (S)
The recipient met most expectations with regards to project execution and reporting, and Recipient
performance was satisfactory when the above Bank performance situation is taken into account.


                                                 47
One issue that did hamper WCS’s performance was the expiry of their Memorandum of
Understanding with GoI, which meant that the Bank could not legally disburse for around 18 months
in the middle of the project. This affected implementation and disbursement rates for this Trust
Fund. WCS has been late to submit some IFRs and did not not always complete audits on time.
Detailed reports on the Recipient’s activities were provided every three months throughout the
duration of the program. WCS was very supportive in field missions and responded quickly to any
recommendations from aide-mémoires and Back to Office Reports.



F. LESSONS LEARNED / RECOMMENDATIONS
The success of community driven development initiatives funded across the PNPM portfolio is
highly dependent on the quality of facilitation of those communities, an issue that is routinely raised
in progress and outcomes reporting. An issue for the future of PNPM is how to become more
integrated as a program, but also support multi-sectoral outcomes, the technical assistance for which
may be best provided through alternative channels, such as specialized CSOs. A review has been
commissioned to further assess and analyze the experience of using CSOs as sector-specific
supplementary facilitation / technical assistance through PNPM Green. By utilizing a thematic
approach to their support, and using a cascade model of delivering technical assistance through local
partner organizations, WCS has provided yet another model of providing supplementary, sector-
specific field facilitation. This study will provide recommendations to inform future sector-specific
facilitation support across the entire PNPM Rural program, including in the environment. It will be
particularly important to ascertain how much quality assurance and oversight was provided and is
needed by the “umbrella? CSO in such a model,
By taking a thematic approach to their support in North Sulawesi, WCS was able to identify local
potential and take up opportunities as they arose. Further, they were able to utilize their comparative
advantage in particular issues, such as through the provision of highly technically competent
assistance to communities. However, this may have left gaps in communities which had green
development potential but where this potential did not necessarily fit with WCS’ areas of expertise.
At times, it appeared that WCS was uncertain of the activities undertaken in a range of villages, but
had deep technical understanding of the activities in other areas.




                                                  48
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MEMORANDUM (ICM)

A. BASIC TRUST FUND INFORMATION
TF Name:               Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) in Sulawesi Environmental
                       Training and Awareness Project in Southeast Sulawesi (OPWAL)
TF Number:             TF090977
TTL:                   Chloe Jane Olliver


TF Amount:             US $1,466,600
Recipient:             Operation Wallacea Trust
Donor:                 Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)


Activation Date:       November 15, 2007
Closing Date:          October 31, 2012



B. TRUST FUND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.       Original Trust Fund Development Objectives
The objective of this project was to “implement the Training and Awareness component of the
Kecamatan Development Program in Sulawesi?. The Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) was
the predecessor to the current National Program for Community Empowerment (PNPM), and an
environmental agenda has been progressed under PNPM through the “Green KDP? (now PNPM
Green) special project in eight target provinces.
The Project Development Objective for PNPM Green is to make the utilization of natural resources
by rural communities sustainable. The objective is achieved through (i) mainstreaming natural
resource management issues in the community-driven development planning process, (ii) increasing
environmental awareness and related management capacity of communities and government
stakeholders, and (iii) the disbursement of block grants to fund environmentally supportive 'green'
projects at the sub-district (kecamatan) and district (kabupaten) level.
This Trust Fund supported technical assistance provided by the recipient: Operation Wallacea Trust
(OWT). The OWT was responsible for delivering environmental awareness-raising and training
activities to the pilot’s community beneficiaries and other sub-national stakeholders including local
government officials to assist in the design and implementation of viable ‘green’ sub-projects.
There were no substantive changes made to the Project Development Objective for this Trust Fund.
However, the scope was expanded under the 5th Grant Amendment (12 March 2012) to include
additional PNPM Green locations that were not receiving awareness raising and training assistance
from any Civil Society Organizations (CSOs). As a result, OWT expanded the same set of activities
into South Sulawesi.




                                                  49
2.     Original Trust Fund Activities/Components
The project consisted of the following components and related activities:
(i)     Project management and initial assessment activities including (a) establishment of
coordination mechanisms with KDP coordinators and management consultants to integrate the
Project into the existing KDP structure and mechanisms; (b) carrying out of baseline assessment
including training needs assessment and environmental overview and solutions in each Participating
Kabupaten; and (c) carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities, and compilation of reports
on the progress of the Project for onward transmission to the World Bank.
(ii)    Training including (a) develop training design and materials for local community leaders at
village level, newly appointed ‘green’ KDP facilitators, KDP facilitators, and government officials,
including tools for monitoring and evaluation; and (b) deliver the training.
(iii)   Awareness raising including (a) design and implementation of an awareness raising strategy
to address sustainable natural resource use and conservation issues in Participating Kabupaten; (b)
carrying out of an awareness media analysis and design of communication themes; and (c)
preparation of local newsletters and making use of local billboards and media outlet.
There were no substantive changes to the activities and components for this project


3.     Outcome Indicators
The original outcomes performance benchmarks for this project were:
(i)     Well trained KDP facilitators and other local KDP stakeholders, who can ignite and facilitate
‘green’ projects within the KDP, not limited to those within KDP-Sulawesi.
(ii)    Local community members, including women and children, who are aware of environmental
issues and sustainable natural resource decisions that they can participate in.
(iii)   Adoption by regional governments of natural resources governance issues as an integral part
of the policy development and decision making process; and
(iv)   A sustainable capacity among both KDP facilitators and KDP stakeholders of all levels to
continue the implementation of locally-driven ‘green’ development investment and to expand its
geographic coverage to new areas.
There were no substantive changes to the outcome indicators for this project.


4.     Other Significant Changes in Trust Fund Design
Significant changes made to this Trust Fund include amendments to expand the scope of activities to
include the additional Province of South Sulawesi, an extension to the end date of the activity by two
years, and increase funding from US $750,000 to US $ 1,466,600 to cover the increased time and
scale of the Trust Fund activities.




                                                 50
C. OUTCOME
1.      Relevance of TF Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating - Satisfactory
The original Trust Fund objectives, design and implementation remain as relevant today to country
and global priorities - and to the Bank’s Country Partnership and Sector Strategies - as they were at
the outset of the project. The PNPM program is the flagship program under Cluster 2 of the
Government of Indonesia’s poverty reduction strategy. The program empowers villagers to exercise
their rights over matters of public interest and to be at the forefront of a locally managed, sustainable
development process. Indonesia is pursuing a triple track plus one development strategy: Pro-
growth, pro-job, pro-poor, and pro-environment. The National Medium-Term Development Plan
(2010 – 2014) recognizes that environmental challenges threaten the sustainable development of the
country, and various studies have outlined the opportunity costs to Indonesia of poor management of
its natural resource wealth, exacerbated by the costs of climate change.                  Advancing an
environmental agenda under this project has been an essential part of addressing priority poverty
alleviation objectives through supporting environmentally sustainable, community-driven
development.
The World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS FY2009-2012) for Indonesia has emphasized
investing in Indonesia’s institutions for inclusive and sustainable development. In addition to its
cross-cutting governance agenda, the CPS identified five thematic areas that informed the core of the
Bank’s engagement in Indonesia under this CPS: (a) private sector development; (b) infrastructure;
(c) community development and social protection; (d) education; and (e) environmental sustainability
and disaster mitigation.      This project has continued to address key issues of environmental
sustainability and community development in rural villages, as well as alternative income generation
and institutional capacity building.


2.      Achievement of TF Development Objective
Rating - Satisfactory
The development objective of this Trust Fund was achieved, with the training and awareness raising
activities undertaken by OWT leading to program facilitators and other stakeholders proposing and
successfully delivering over 2,900 green activities against a target of 2,500. This demonstrates that
stakeholders have been able to ignite and facilitate relevant natural resource management (NRM),
renewable energy (RE), and income generating activities. OWT has delivered technical assistance to
communities to support them to manage the implementation of these activities. OWT has achieved
this through the provision of appropriately skilled and qualified facilitators at the kecamatan level.
Further, OWT has been actively engaged in the design and implementation of successive waves of
pre-service and refresher training for PNPM Green facilitators, as well as the development and
delivery of specific training for field stakeholders, for example in Catchment area Protection and
Rehabilitation management.
OWT has produced, disseminated, and implemented a diverse range of Information, Education,
Communication (IEC) media including mobile interactive environmental expos with film nights,
quizzes, and education packs, schools environment days, village clean up days, relevant technical
training manuals, activity factsheets, booklets, campaign billboards, posters, and a bi-monthly online
and hard copy magazines. Further, OWT has provided specialized training for community groups on
potential green activities. Most impressive has been the array of material on small green enterprises,


                                                   51
and as a result, the number of community enterprises that continue to generate income for program
beneficiaries e.g. extensive agro-forestry production for fruit (mango, durian, cashews, nutmeg,
rambutan, etc.) and sustainable timber, mangroves for seafood production, handicrafts from waste
products, and the production and sale of organic virgin coconut oil, briquettes, organic fertilizer,
honey, duck egg, mushroom cultivation, and much more.
OWT has continued to engage effectively with issues of regional governance of NRM through a
range of measures and processes including (a) assisting villages to include environmental
sustainability in their village development plans (RPJM-Des); (b) supporting villages to develop
relevant village regulations and by-laws; (c) supporting the inclusion of village RPJM-Des into
regional development plans; and (d) facilitating the inclusion of regional governance actors in the
program, for example through including parliamentarians, regional bureaucrats, the media and other
decision-makers in field visits, events, training and workshops as appropriate. As a result, OWT
have supported communities to successfully pursue a number of line agencies and regional
governments, as well as Corporate Social Responsibility programs to fund and manage the
replication of green activities in non-program areas (e.g. biogas in Tana Toraja), and to extend the
outcomes of activities e.g. eco-tourism investments in Muna District.
OWT have ensured that the national program-implementing unit within the Ministry of Home Affairs
has high quality training materials and manuals to be able to scale out the benefits of the program,
which they have started to do under the government’s SDA Lestari program.
OWT has maintained a focus on long term sustainability of program outcomes in a number of ways,
including: building maintenance strategies into activity implementation such as the development of
village regulations on benefit sharing and environmental conservation areas, and marketing and
market linkages for income generating activities; linking outcomes and technical assistance to
permanent locally managed programs and institutions such as local agricultural colleges and
government departments; including PNPM Rural consultants and sub-national government Work
Units in activities wherever possible so that they can continue to support green activities; and linked
into local green community based organizations and ensured that they have the capacity and skills to
support ongoing green outcomes.


3.     Efficiency
Rating - Satisfactory
The project was well managed and coordinated, and funds were utilized efficiently by OWT to
achieve the program objectives. Given the nature of the activities supported by this Grant, neither
economic nor financial rates of return can be computed, but survey data is included in the section
below on Development Impact.
The project was completed slightly under budget and within a timeline that was acceptable to the
donor and the Bank. Extensions totaling two years were requested and approved by the Bank. These
extensions were granted to compliment the extension by the government of Indonesia of the main
component of the program – the disbursement of Block Grants to rural communities to undertake
green activities.


4.     Development Impacts, including those that are Unintended/Unrelated to TF Objectives
Rating - Satisfactory



                                                  52
As is evidenced by the relevance of this Trust Fund, as well as the recipient’s efficiency in achieving
the development objectives of the Grant Agreement, OWT has achieved significant development
impact through this Trust Fund. An “Evaluation of “Green Sub-Projects? undertaken in 2011
concluded that ‘green’ activity design and implementation practices were enhanced by OWT’s input
into the program. A recent analysis of the economic, environmental and social benefits of PNPM
Green (Economic and Livelihood Report, 2012) shows that 66% of the almost 1,000 households
interviewed for this study said that capacity building endeavors had a positive impact on their
involvement in the program. Further, 65% of respondents said that they make use of the skills they
acquired during capacity building. OWT was quick to mobilize resources, and has been quick to
manage any instances of under-performing staff.
As outlined above, village development planning processes have become more environmentally
sustainable as a result of the program, and these have been better supported by village regulations to
support environmental protection, rehabilitation, equitable income sharing from investments
alternative income activities, and ongoing investment in maintenance of renewable energy. Linkages
into regional development plans have also been strengthened. Not only have community resources
been mobilized to support program investments, but contributions have also been received by district
and line agencies development programs. Particularly impressive has been the increased knowledge
base in OWT program areas, which is entrenched in village centers and “practice champions?, in
relevant line agencies, and in other local community based organizations and institutions.
OWT has placed high priority on supporting women’s groups to develop and manage numerous
green enterprises for income generation such as in waste management and recycling, the production
and sale of organics fertilizers, handicrafts made from recycled material, silk weaving, coconut oil,
fuel efficient stove briquettes, and a range of food production endeavors such as dried fish and
vegetable chips (very popular in Indonesia). This has had a positive impact on income generation in
poor rural households.


5.     Overall TF Outcome
Overall Rating - Satisfactory (S)
Overall, the rating for this Trust Fund is satisfactory. This is because OWT continued to deliver
activities that contributed to the efficient achievement of the Project Development Objective, leading
to a positive development impact. The relevance of the Trust Fund objective has increased, if
anything, over the time of the Trust Fund.



D. Risk to Development Outcome
1.     Follow-On Results and/or Investment Activities
Grant Funds are being sought for a follow on activity, the objective of which is to progress
environmental sustainability across the PNPM Rural program in an integrated and measurable
manner i.e. to mainstream the outcomes of the PNPM Green pilot across the PNPM Rural program.
Central to the follow on activity will be to support the provision of supplementary, specialist
environmental technical assistance to rural communities and sub-national stakeholders, much as
OWT has done under this Trust Fund. This project has provided good lessons and models for
delivering the supplementary technical assistance proposed for the follow on activity and therefore
will assist in garnering support for the follow on activity.


                                                  53
Activity/Investment:
___ Recipient/Other Investment; _X_ Grant Project/Program; __ Bank Project; __ IFC Financial
Project/Activity


2.      Replicability

Rating - Satisfactory (S)
This Trust Fund demonstrated that specialized, sector-based technical assistance can be provided to
communities through appropriate CSOs and can supplement PNPM Rural facilitators to support the
achievement of sector-specific outcomes.
This Trust Fund has also demonstrated that the provision of awareness raising and sector-specific
training can inspire and support sustainable investments in relevant activities by communities. This
is particularly relevant for the future of PNPM Rural and CDD programs more broadly as they
continue to evolve and incorporate multi-sectoral outcomes. This is important in a context where
small-scale infrastructure has traditionally dominated these program outcomes.


3.      Overall Risk to Development Outcome

Rating - Moderate
It is likely that income generating outcomes will be sustained for considerable periods of time as it is
in the interests of communities to keep these running because of the immediate and tangible returns.
This is also true of NRM activities that will generate medium to longer term incomes such as
commercial tree and mangrove planting activities (mangrove rehabilitation has increased fish and
crab yields).
For Renewable Energy investments, it is clear that communities who have electricity for the first
time highly value it, and even more so when they understand the cost savings involved in renewable
sources compared to being connected to the grid.
For some tree planting and ecosystem services activities, it is not clear to what extent these will be
sustained beyond the project cycle as it appears they these sorts of activities have sometimes been
treated as “cash for work? schemes by communities. However, where communities are able to
articulate the cost benefits that investments in ecosystem services bring in terms of disaster
mitigation - especially communities that have lost much in storm surge, erosion, landslide and other
disasters resulting from degraded environmental services – these investments are likely to be
sustained.
Other risks to development outcome include changing political priorities and decreased political
commitments to environmental sustainability. However, OWT systematically included regional
political stakeholders and other decision-makers in the program wherever possible, and has ensured
that these leaders understand the legitimacy gains that they gain with communities by supporting
green village development initiatives.
Technical capacity could pose a risk to sustainability of development outcomes for some activities,
however, OWT has specifically invested in local “champions? and centers of learning and knowledge
sharing to mitigate this risk. For example, OWT has developed demonstration plots that are managed
and utilized by local organizations to increase local knowledge. Also, OWT utilized local


                                                  54
“champions? as trainers to ensure that expertise remain in communities after the program ends.
OWT has supported the creation of local “self-help? groups that can champion “smart practices?.
As with all environmental programs, outcomes are often at risk of natural disasters, a frequent
occurrence throughout Indonesia. These risks are often known by communities before they invest in
programs and are therefore factored into decision-making at the outset.

E. PERFORMANCE

1.     Bank

Rating – Moderately unsatisfactory (MU)
Bank performance was moderately unsatisfactory, in part because this program has had a number of
different TTLs over its lifetime which led to incremental changes in the concept of the program, and
for this recipient, changes in the way performance indicators were tracked and reported on, with the
reporting template being changed in mid-2011. These changes did better link CSO reporting to the
overall PNPM Green Project Development Objective, but posed challenges for the Recipient in terms
of consistency of progress tracking and reporting. Despite this, good leadership within the CSO has
allowed them to continue to achieve program outcomes based on a clear vision of what was needed
and possible, and how this could be achieved.
An ongoing challenge for the Bank has been a lack of strategic cohesion, although this is not entirely
negative given that PNPM Green was piloting a number of approaches. When the concept of
addressing the environment through PNPM was first mooted the team looked at ways of integrating
environmental objectives through the PNPM Rural program. For a number of reasons, but in
particular due to the administrative complexities and management capacity weaknesses of PNPM
Rural, the environment pilot has ultimately replicated many of the PNPM Rural structures and
processes rather than being integrated into them.
The lack of strategic cohesion has led to changes in the way OWT was asked to track and report on
performance indicators. However, the Bank did undertake an Implementation Supervision Mission
in mid-2011 together with both CSOs during which various changes were collaboratively developed
and tested, the results of which were subsequently implemented by the CSO.
No quantitative targets were set for OWT which clearly hampers the ability to demonstrate results.
Although a baseline study for PNPM Green (not just this Trust Fund) was conducted, it was deemed
inadequate very soon after it was completed. No subsequent baseline study was undertaken.
The Bank did not manage the start up and project closing very well. OWT was mobilized in the field
to support the communities to manage activities funded by Block Grants a good 18 months before the
funding actually arrived in the communities. Eight months before the end of this Trust Fund, an
expansion into South Sulawesi was approved on the assumption that GoI would extend PNPM Green
to December 2013. When this extension did not occur, OWT had to cut their work plan in a very
short period of time, and are in fact investing their own funds to ensure a smoother exit from south
Sulawesi because this Trust Fund is fully disbursed.
Finally, there have not been sufficient field missions over the life of the program to verify the
outcomes and activities reporting on by the Recipient. This issue was raised in a number of aide-
mémoires.
2.     Recipient



                                                 55
Rating - Satisfactory (S)
The recipient met most expectations with regards to project execution and reporting, and Recipient
performance was satisfactory when the above Bank performance situation is taken into account.
Detailed reports on the Recipient’s activities were provided every three months throughout the
duration of the program. OWT was very supportive in field missions and responded quickly to any
recommendations from Aide Memoire and Back to Office Reports.

F. LESSONS LEARNED / RECOMMENDATIONS
The success of community driven development initiatives funded across the PNPM portfolio is
highly dependent on the quality of facilitation of those communities, an issue that is routinely raised
in progress and outcomes reporting. An issue for the future of PNPM is how to become more
integrated as a program, but also support multi-sectoral outcomes, the technical assistance for which
may be best provided through alternative channels, such as specialized CSOs. A review has been
commissioned to further assess and analyze the experience of using CSOs as sector-specific
supplementary facilitation / technical assistance through PNPM Green. This study will provide
recommendations to inform future sector-specific facilitation support across the entire PNPM Rural
program, including in the environment.
One concern has been a lack of clarity of the respective roles and responsibilities of CSO facilitators
and government contracted facilitators. OWT did take on roles that should have been undertaken by
government facilitators at times, and although this was well intentioned and caused by high levels of
vacancies, etc., it led to overlap in other areas and a limit to how much the PNPM facilitators were
held to account to fulfill their roles. Important in the future will be the development of distinct roles
for government and supplementary facilitators, and managing these to fulfill their roles.
Another lesson – although not surprising – is that the sustainability of outcomes has been greatest
when clearly linked to income generation or cost savings. Sustainable small green business
development was a particular success, as was tree planting on private land. However, ecosystem
protection and rehabilitation programs were seemingly treated more as “cash for work? programs,
and the long term sustainability of these activities is unclear and the subject of a study planned for
early 2013 (Tree Planting Survey). It is recommended that small green enterprise development
remain a high priority in the follow on activity.




                                                   56
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MEMORANDUM (ICM)

A. BASIC TRUST FUND INFORMATION
TF Name:               Support Facility for the National Program for Community Development
                       (PNPM) Environmental Pilot Project - 'Green' PNPM
TF Number:             TF096887
TTL:                   Chloe Jane Olliver


TF Amount:             US $2,295,400
Recipient:             Wildlife Conservation Society
Donor(s):              Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), The Netherlands, and
                       the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)


Activation Date:       June 28, 2010
Closing Date:          December 31, 2012



B. TRUST FUND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
1.     Original Trust Fund Development Objectives
The objective of the Project is “to support the implementation of Green PNPM by delivering
environmental awareness raising and training activities designed to improve rural livelihoods while
simultaneously benefiting the environment, wildlife and wild habitats in the Project areas?, i.e.
Sumatra. The project development objective for PNPM Green was to make the utilization of natural
resources by rural communities sustainable. The objective was achieved through (i) mainstreaming
NRM issues in the community-driven development planning process, (ii) increasing environmental
awareness and related management capacity of communities and government stakeholders, and (iii)
the disbursement of block grants to fund environmentally supportive 'green' projects at the sub-
district (kecamatan) and district (kabupaten) level.
This Trust Fund supported technical assistance provided by the recipient, Wildlife Conservation
Society (WCS), to deliver environmental awareness raising and training activities to the pilot’s
community beneficiaries and local government officials under component two above.
There were no changes to the development objective for this project.


2.     Original Trust Fund Activities/Components
The project consists of the following components and related activities:
(i)     Project management and initial assessment activities, including activities to (a) hold a Project
inception workshop for all collaborating Project Partners to agree on standardized strategies for
communication and coordination; (b) establish Project bases in each of the Project Provinces which
will be responsible for activity coordination within each Project Kabupaten and Project Kecamatan;


                                                  57
(c) establish coordination mechanisms with Project Staff Members, PNPM Management Consultants,
and PNPM Green Facilitators, and PNPM Verification Teams at the provincial, Kabupaten, and
Kecamatan levels; (d) identify potential local NGO/CBOs to assist in extending training and
environmental awareness raising activities to the village level. Once identified, award and supervise
Project Sub-Grants to NGOs/CBOs qualifying as Project Sub-Grantees to implement specific
activities to support Green PNPM in Project Kabupaten, Project Kecamatan, and Project Villages; (e)
conduct Knowledge, Attitude and Practices (KAP) survey of PNPM Participating Communities and
Project Partners on natural resource use and conservation needs throughout the Project Provinces; (f)
conduct training needs assessments of all Project Partners at Project Province, Project Kabupaten,
Project Kecamatan, and Project Village levels; (g) identify and establish network of volunteers in
each Project Province and mobilize the network to Kecamatan level; and (h) on a quarterly basis,
produce progress and activity reports of Project.
(ii)     Capacity Building / Training, including activities to (a) develop training modules based on
initial assessments and tailored to the specific needs of individual Project Partners. Provide thematic
and technically specific training to Project Partners, as required; (b) hold training sessions for PNPM
Green Facilitators at the Provincial level and Kabupaten level; (c) assist PNPM Green Facilitators in
delivering Green PNPM socialization activities within Project Villages, describing possible options
for PNPM Sub-Project proposals; (d) utilizing Project Staff Members and volunteers, assist Green
Facilitators and PNPM Participating Communities to develop PNPM Sub-Project proposals for
PNPM Block Grant funding, and as needed provide technical assistance in implementation; and (e)
adjust and adopt verification tools for PNPM Verification Teams.
(iii)   Awareness Raising, including activities to (a) design and implement environmental
awareness raising strategy for Project Sub-Grantees which addresses sustainable natural resources
management and integrates environmental issues with other existing activities in PNPM; (b) Conduct
media analysis and design communication themes (parallel to KAP survey); (c) Develop and
implement standard awareness raising modules for use by Project Sub-Grantees at Project Province,
Project Kabupaten and Project Kecamatan levels; (d) work with PNPM Block Grant recipients to
develop demonstration plots and information centers at the Project Kabupaten and Project
Kecamatan levels; and (e) document, develop and disseminate best practices models of
livelihood/natural resource use activities to areas participating in Green PNPM, and propose
strategies for mainstreaming those practices into PNPM.
(iv)     Monitoring & Evaluation, including activities to (a) monitor and evaluate Project-produced
training modules, materials and other initiatives and awareness raising and media promotion
activities; and (b) develop PNPM Sub-Grant project tracking/monitoring methods; monitor the
uptake of PNPM Sub-Project proposals produced by PNPM Participating Communities; and evaluate
the impact of PNPM Sub-Projects implemented by those PNPM Participating Communities who
received environmental awareness and training through this Project.
There were no changes to the project components / activities.


3.     Outcome Indicators
The original indicators for the performance of outcomes for this project were:
(i)     Well trained PNPM Green Facilitators and other Project Partners who can sustain the
capacity to ignite and facilitate the implementation of Green PNPM Sub-Projects, throughout the
Project Provinces, Project Kabupaten and Project Kecamatan and in other areas where PNPM is
operational.


                                                  58
(ii)   A functioning communication network established among local and international
NGOs/CSOs, PNPM Participating Communities, and other Project Partners throughout the Project
Provinces to share and effectively disseminate information on environmental and natural resource
management issues in support of PNPM.
(iii)   Increased number of PNPM Participating Community members, including women and
children, which are aware of environmental issues and the sustainable natural resource management
decision-making procedures in which they can participate in.
(iv)    Increased number of local government institutions adopting natural resources governance
issues as an integral part of the policy development and decision making process.
There were no changes to the outcome indicators for this project


4.      Other Significant Changes in Trust Fund Design
There were no amendments or extensions to this Trust Fund.



C. OUTCOME
1.      Relevance of Trust Fund Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating - Satisfactory
The original Trust Fund objectives, design and implementation remain as relevant today to country
and global priorities, as well as the Bank’s Country Partnership and Sector Strategies as they were at
the outset of the project. The PNPM program is the flagship program under Cluster 2 of the
Government of Indonesia’s poverty reduction strategy. The program empowers villagers to exercise
their rights over matters of public interest and to be at the forefront of a locally managed, sustainable
development process. Indonesia is pursuing a triple track plus one development strategy: Pro-
growth, pro-job, pro-poor, and pro-environment. The National Medium-Term Development Plan
(2010 – 2014) recognizes that environmental challenges threaten the sustainable development of the
country, and various studies have outlined the opportunity costs to Indonesia of poor management of
its natural resource wealth, exacerbated by the costs of climate change.                  Advancing an
environmental agenda within PNPM Green under this project has been an essential part of addressing
priority poverty alleviation through environmentally sustainable community development.
World Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS FY2009-2012) for Indonesia emphasizes investing
in Indonesia’s institutions for inclusive and sustainable development. In addition to its cross-cutting
governance agenda, the CPS identifies five thematic areas that form the core of the Bank’s
engagement in Indonesia: (a) private sector development; (b) infrastructure; (c) community
development and social protection; (d) education; and (e) environmental sustainability and disaster
mitigation. This project has continued to address key issues of environmental sustainability and
community development in rural villages, as well as alternative income generation and institutional
capacity building. This project has complimented a range of programs being undertaken by the Bank
in the environment sector.


2.      Achievement of Trust Fund Development Objective
Rating - Satisfactory


                                                   59
The development objective of this trust fund was achieved, with the training and awareness raising
activities undertaken by WCS leading to program facilitators and other stakeholders proposing and
successfully implementing over 2,900 “green? projects across the program. It is clear that lessons
were learned from the previous two years of PNPM Green funded activities in Sulawesi and adapted
to improve program outcomes in Sumatra. For example, WCS focused intensively on increasing the
quality of village development planning from the outset in Sumatera, having learned of the long term
benefits of this in Sulawesi. Further, WCS facilitated champions from Sulawesi to undertake peer-
to-peer learning with community stakeholders in Sumatera
The WCS delivered basic and refresher training to PNPM Green facilitators, and supported rural
communities to develop and manage demonstration plots for a diverse range of environmental and
income generating activities, which has resulted in local community members, including women and
children, increasing their awareness and understanding of environmental issues and sustainable
natural resource decisions. Based on their increased understanding, community members
participated in village meetings to propose “green? activities, which were then funded through other
components of PNPM Green. There was a clear correlation between the range of demonstration
plots established by WCs and the increasingly diverse range of environmental activities proposed and
implemented by participating communities, demonstrating the effectiveness of these demonstration
plots.
WCS adapted capacity building approaches to better suit adult learning and on-the-job training, and
developed increasingly more advances training materials for PNPM Green facilitators and other
stakeholders as they gained more skills and experience over the years of the program. Further, they
effectively integrated capacity building into existing government and community structures and
events.


3.     Efficiency
Rating - Satisfactory
The project was well managed and coordinated and the funds were utilized efficiently to achieve the
objective. Given the nature of the activities supported by the Grant, neither economic nor financial
rates of return can be computed, but survey data is included in the section below on Development
Impact.


4.     Development Impacts, including those that are Unintended / Unrelated to TF Objectives
Rating - Satisfactory
As is evidenced by the relevance of this Trust Fund, as well as the recipient’s efficiency in achieving
the development objectives of the Grant Agreement, WCS has achieved significant development
impact through this Trust Fund. A recent analysis of the economic, environmental and social
benefits of PNPM Green (Economic and Livelihood Report, 2012) shows that 66% of the almost
1,000 households interviewed for this study said that capacity building endeavors had a positive
impact on their involvement in the program. Further, 65% of respondents said that they make use of
the skills they acquired during capacity building. WCS worked with a broader consortium of local
civil society organizations from the outset was quick to manage instances of under-performing
partner organizations.




                                                  60
As outlined above, village development planning processes have become more environmentally
sustainable as a result of the program, and these have been better supported by village regulations to
support environmental protection, rehabilitation, equitable income sharing from investments
alternative income activities, and ongoing investment in maintenance of renewable energy. Linkages
into regional development plans have also been strengthened. WCS has facilitated the mobilization
of significant community resources to support program investments, but contributions have also been
received by district and line agencies development programs. It is clear that sub-national government
and communities are funding the replication of WCS demonstration activities using their own funds
in non-target locations.
Finally, and particularly impressive has been the increased participation of women in the program
that WCS has facilitated, with WCS providing gender disaggregated data for program activity and
outcomes.


5.      Overall Trust Fund Outcome
Rating - Satisfactory
Overall, the rating for this Trust Fund is satisfactory. This is because WCS continued to deliver
activities that contributed to the efficient achievement of the Project Development Objective, leading
to a positive development impact. The relevance of the Trust Fund objective has increased, if
anything, over the time of the Trust Fund.

D. Risk to Development Outcome
1.      Follow-On Results and/or Investment Activities
Grant Funds are being sought for follow up activities, the objectives of which will be to progress
environmental sustainability across the PNPM Rural program in an integrated and measurable
manner i.e. to mainstream the outcomes of the PNPM Green pilot across the umbrella PNPM rural
program. Central to the follow on activity will be to support the provision of supplementary,
specialist environmental technical assistance to rural communities and sub-national stakeholders,
much as WCS has done under this Trust Fund. This project has provided significant good lessons
and models for delivering the supplementary technical assistance proposed for the follow on activity
and therefore will assist in garnering support for the follow on activity.
Activity/Investment:
___ Recipient/Other Investment; _X_ Grant Project/Program; __ Bank Project; __ IFC Financial
Project/Activity


2.      Replicability

Rating - Satisfactory (S)
This Trust Fund demonstrated that specialized, sector-based technical assistance can be provided to
communities through appropriate CSOs and can supplement PNPM Rural facilitators to support the
achievement of sector-specific outcomes.
This Trust Fund has also demonstrated that the provision of awareness raising and sector-specific
training can inspire and support sustainable investments in relevant activities by communities. This


                                                 61
is particularly relevant for the future of PNPM Rural and CDD programs more broadly as they
continue to evolve and incorporate multi-sectoral outcomes. This is important in a context where
small-scale infrastructure has traditionally dominated these program outcomes.


3.     Overall Risk to Development Outcome

Rating - Moderate
It is likely that income generating outcomes will be sustained for considerable periods of time as it is
in the interests of communities to keep these running because of the immediate and tangible returns.
This is also true of NRM activities that will generate medium to longer term incomes such as
commercial tree and mangrove planting activities (mangrove rehabilitation has increased fish and
crab yields).
For Renewable Energy investments, it is clear that communities who have electricity for the first
time highly value it, and even more so when they understand the cost savings involved in renewable
sources compared to being connected to the grid.
For some tree planting and ecosystem services activities, it is not clear to what extent these will be
sustained beyond the project cycle as it appears they these sorts of activities have sometimes been
treated as “cash for work? schemes by communities. However, where communities are able to
articulate the cost benefits that investments in ecosystem services bring in terms of disaster
mitigation - especially communities that have lost much in storm surge, erosion, landslide and other
disasters resulting from degraded environmental services – these investments are likely to be
sustained.
Other risks to development outcome include changing political priorities and decreased political
commitments to environmental sustainability. However, WCS has been quick to include regional
political stakeholders and other decision-makers in the program wherever possible, and has ensured
that these leaders understand the legitimacy gains that they gain with communities by supporting
green village development initiatives.
As with all environmental programs, outcomes are often at risk of natural disasters, a frequent
occurrence throughout Indonesia. These risks are often known by communities before they invest in
programs and are therefore factored into decision-making at the outset.



E. PERFORMANCE
1.     Performance of the Bank
Rating – Moderately unsatisfactory (MU)
Bank performance was moderately unsatisfactory, in part because this program has had a number of
different TTLs over its lifetime which led to incremental changes in the concept of the program, and
for this recipient, changes in the way performance indicators were tracked and reported on, with the
reporting template being changed in mid-2011. These changes did better link CSO reporting to the
overall PNPM Green Project Development Objective, but posed challenges for the Recipient in terms
of consistency of progress tracking and reporting. The ultimate success of the Trust fund is a credit
to the management within the CSO, which continued to implement activities in the field in their
interpretation of what was necessary and possible, in line with the Project Development Objective.


                                                  62
An ongoing challenge for the Bank has been a lack of strategic cohesion, although this is not entirely
negative given that PNPM Green was piloting a number of approaches. When the concept of
addressing the environment through PNPM was first mooted the team looked at ways of integrating
environmental objectives through the PNPM Rural program. For a number of reasons, but in
particular due to the administrative complexities and management capacity weaknesses of PNPM
Rural, the environment pilot has ultimately replicated many of the PNPM Rural structures and
processes rather than being integrated into them.
The lack of strategic cohesion has led to changes in the way WCS was asked to track and report on
performance indicators. However, the Bank did undertake an Implementation Supervision Mission
in mid-2011 together with both CSOs during which various changes were collaboratively developed
and tested, the results of which were subsequently implemented by the CSO.
Finally, there have not been sufficient field missions over the life of the program to verify the
outcomes and activities reporting by the Recipient. This issue was raised in a number of Aide
Memoire.


2.     Performance of the Recipient
Rating - Satisfactory (S)
The recipient met most expectations with regards to project execution and reporting, and Recipient
performance was satisfactory when the above Bank performance situation is taken into account.
One issue that hampered WCS’s performance was the expiry of their Memorandum of Understanding
with GoI, which meant that the Bank could not legally disburse to them for around 18 months in the
middle of the project. This affected implementation and disbursement rates for this Trust Fund.
WCS has been late to submit some IFRs and did not not always complete audits on time.
Detailed reports on the Recipient’s activities were provided every three months throughout the
duration of the program. WCS was very supportive in field missions and responded quickly to any
recommendations from aide-mémoire and Back to Office Reports.




F. LESSONS LEARNED / RECOMMENDATIONS
The success of community driven development initiatives funded across the PNPM portfolio is
highly dependent on the quality of facilitation of those communities, an issue that is routinely raised
in progress and outcomes reporting. An issue for the future of PNPM is how to become more
integrated as a program, but also support multi-sectoral outcomes, the technical assistance for which
may be best provided through alternative channels, such as specialized CSOs. A review has been
commissioned to further assess and analyze the experience of using CSOs as sector-specific
supplementary facilitation / technical assistance through PNPM Green. By utilizing a thematic
approach to their support, and using a cascade model of delivering technical assistance through local
partner organizations, WCS has provided yet another model of providing supplementary, sector-
specific field facilitation. This study will provide recommendations to inform future sector-specific
facilitation support across the entire PNPM Rural program, including in the environment. It will be
particularly important to ascertain how much quality assurance and oversight was provided and is
needed by the “umbrella? CSO in such a model,


                                                  63
By taking a thematic approach to their support in North Sulawesi, WCS was able to identify local
potential and take up opportunities as they arose. Further, they were able to utilize their comparative
advantage in particular issues, such as through the provision of highly technically competent
assistance to communities. However, this may have left gaps in communities who had green
development potential but that this potential did not necessarily fit with WCS’ areas of expertise. At
times, it appeared that WCS was uncertain of the activities undertaken in a range of villages, but had
deep technical understanding of the activities in other areas.




                                                  64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 39993

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PNPM GREEN PROJECT
                                                                                                                     VIETNAM                                                                                                                                               PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT KABUPATENS

                                         THAILAND                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sulu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PA C I F I C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

  1 NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OCEAN                                                                          KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES
               1. Aceh Timur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
               2. Aceh Tengah
               3. Aceh Selatan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

Banda Aceh                                                                                           2 SUMATERA UTARA
                                                                                                       4. Phak Phak Barat                                                                                     BRUNEI                                                      Celebes
              1                                                                                        5. Tapanuli Selatan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                     1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                        2
                                                                          MALAYSIA                     6. Mandailing Natal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Talaud                                                                  GSDPM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                               Medan                                                                               Natuna                                                                                                                                                                                                              Is.                                                                     Map Design Unit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                    Besar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24 SULAWESI UTARA                                                17
                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17. Kepulauan Sangihe
                                          4         2                                                                                                                                                                                                          18. Minahasa                                           24
      Simeulue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Morotai
                                                                                                                                   19                                             MALAYSIA                                                                     19. Minahasa Utara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20. Bolaang Mongondow Induk                                                                                                                                                                        0        100         200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21. Bolaang Mongondow Selatan                Manado              19
                                                   5                                                   SINGAPORE                                          13                                                            23                                                                                                                                28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30

                      Nias                                                                               Tanjung Pinang                                        14                                                                                                                                                              18                                                                                                                                 0              100              200 Miles
                                                       6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ternate                           Halmahera
                                                              7
                                                               Pekanbaru
                                                                                3                                                                                                              K A L I M A N TA N                                                                25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         29
                                                                                                                                                                      15                                                                                                                     Gorontalo 21                                                                                         Waigeo
                                                                                                                                              Pontianak
                                                               11                                                Lingga
                                                                10                                                                                                         20                                                      Samarinda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Palu            26                                                                   30                                                                                  Manokwari                 Biak
                                                       Padang
                                         Me




                                                                                                                                                                                                              27 SULAWESI BARAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Peleng
                                                       Siberut             8                Jambi                                                                                                    21                                                                     22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  32
                                         nt




                                                                      9                5                                  Bangka                                                                18                   16. Mamasa                          SULAWESI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21                                                                                                31
                                          aw




                                                              4                                                                                                                          16                                                                     20                                                   32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Obi                                                                              Yapen
                                                                                                                             Pangkal Pinang                                                                                                    27                                                                          Sula Is.                                              Misool
                                              ai




                                                                                                                                                                                    Palangkaraya                                                               29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jayapura
              4 SUMATERA BARAT                                                    SUMATERA                                         9                                                                                                    Mamuju
                                               Is




                                                                                                                                                Belitung                                                                                                  28
                                                   .




                                                                                                                 Palembang                                                          17                                                              16
                   7. Pasaman                                                  12 15    7                                                                                                                        22                                      26                                                                                       26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             27
                   8. Solok Selatan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                   9. Pesisir Selatan
                                                                                       3                                                                                                       Bandjermasin                                                                                                                                                                      Ceram
                                                                          Bengkulu                                                                                                                                                                                         22                Kendari                                   Buru
                   10. Padang Pariaman                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     28 SULAWESI SELATAN                       25                                                                                                        Ambon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      33
                   11. Agam
                                                                               6           13
                                                                                            1            6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25. Wajo                      28                         29                         29 SULAWESI TENGGARA
                                                                                                14           5      8                                               Java Sea                                                 26. Tana Toraja                                                23        Muna                           22. Kolaka                                                                                                                                  PAPUA
                                                       6 BENGKULU                                                    4                                                                                                       27. Maros        Makassar  27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kai Is.
                                                                                      Enggano                                 11                                                                                                                       Makassar                                                                      23. Muna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28. Toraja Utara                                           24
                                                       12. Bengkulu Utara                                                          JAKARTA                                                                                   29. Luwu Utara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     24. Buton                                          31                              24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Aru
                                                       13. Bengkulu Selatan
                                                                                            Tanjungkarang-                                                     Semarang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Is.
                                                       14. Kaur
                                                                                               Telukbetung          Serang                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Banda Sea
                                                       15. Lebong                                                                                         13                                  Madura
                                                                                                                                         12                                                                                                                                                                                            Wetar
                                                                                                                     10                                                                       Surabaja         16                                                                                                                                                                 Babar                23    Tanimbar
                                                                                                                             Bandung                                                                          Bali     Lombok           Sumbawa                                                                  Alor                                          Moa                                          Is.
                                                                                                                                                   Yogyakarta                                                                                                                                    12    11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10

                                                                                                                                                                    14          JAVA 15                                                                                                                                             TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Denpasar                                                          Flores
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mataram      17                                                  18                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7               Sumba                                       8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kupang                        Timor                                     Arafura Sea
                                                                                                                                                    INDIAN OCEAN




     PROVINCES
     1   NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM             12   JAWA BARAT                      23 KALIMANTAN TIMUR
     2   SUMATERA UTARA                       13   JAWA TENGAH                     24 SULAWESI UTARA                                                           INDONESIA
     3   RIAU                                 14   D.I. YOGYAKARTA                 25 GORONTALO
     4   SUMATERA BARAT                       15   JAWA TIMUR                      26 SULAWESI TENGAH
     5   JAMBI                                16   BALI                            27 SULAWESI BARAT
     6   BENGKULU                             17   NUSA TENGGARA BARAT             28 SULAWESI SELATAN
     7   SUMATERA SELATAN                     18   NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR             29 SULAWESI TENGGARA
     8   LAMPUNG                              19   RIAU KEPULAUAN                  30 MALUKU UTARA
     9   BANGKA-BELITUNG                      20   KALIMANTAN BARAT                31 MALUKU
    10   BANTEN                               21   KALIMANTAN TENGAH               32 PAPUA BARAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUSTRALIA
    11   D.K.I. JAKARTA                       22   KALIMANTAN SELATAN              33 PAPUA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APRIL 2013
