IOFICtAL
1w4SW TS
LOAN NUMBER 8139-MU
Loan Agreement
(Private Sector Competitiveness - Development Policy Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 20, 2012


﻿LOAN NUMBER 8139-MU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated April 20, 2012, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
MAURITIUS ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- LOAN
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of nine million six hundred thousand
Pounds (GBP 9,600,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such
non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by
the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.


﻿-2-
2.05. The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. (a)    The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the
aggregate equal or exceed GBP 9,600.000 shall be converted from the initial
Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance
with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
2.09.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy


﻿-3-
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
specified in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part of it, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V -EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
framework.
5. 02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6. 01. The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance and Economic
Development.
6. 02. The Borrower's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable:              Telex:                     Facsimile:
MINFIN              4247                       (230) 213 6450
Port Louis          EXTERN IW
6. 03. The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:      Telex:               Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD           248423(MCI) or       1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.     64145(MCI)


﻿-5-
AGREED at Washington, D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
By:
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
Author     epresentative


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I.   Actions Taken under the Program
Pillar 1:    Enterprise Growth and Competitiveness
1.    The Borrower has sought and obtained Cabinet approval in principle for the
consolidation of SME programs under MoBEC.
2.    The Borrower has secured ministerial approval of regulations governing the
Register of Insolvency Practitioners, including registration guidelines and
corresponding prescribed application forms.
Pillar 2:    Improving Access to Finance
3.    The Borrower has sought and obtained Cabinet approval of a decision to
transform DBM into a financially viable MSME bank duly licensed by BOM,
and with private sector involvement.
4.     The Borrower has enacted legislation amending the Transcription and Mortgage
Act in order to prescribe a time limit consistent with business standards to
register property.
5.    The Borrower has expanded the coverage of MCIB to include all non-bank
financial institutions.
Pillar 3:    Enhancing ICT and e-Gov Support for Increased Efficiency and
Transparency Gains
6.    The Borrower has sought and obtained Cabinet approval of its National
Broadband Policy.
7.    The Borrower has enacted legislation amending the ICT Act in order to introduce
therein a definition of significant market power (SMP) and equip the ICT
Authority with the appropriate tools to regulate markets in which there is
evidence of SMP.
8.    The Borrower has sought and obtained Cabinet approval of its plan to promote
widespread adoption and use of public key infrastructure (PKI) technology to
execute secure electronic transactions.


﻿-7-
Section II.  Availability of Loan Proceeds
A.     General. The Borrower nay withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.     Allocation of Loan Amount. The Loan (except for the amount required to pay
the Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amount of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations              Amount of the Loan Allocated
(expressed in GBP)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                9,576,000
(2) Front-end Fee                               24,000
TOTAL AMOUNT                                  9,600,000
C.    Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (b) with
the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.
D.    Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
I.    all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
and
2.    the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of
the Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to
the Bank.
E.     Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refinded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2012.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date              Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February I5 and August 15                3.85 %
Beginning August 15, 2017
through August 15, 2029
On February 15, 2030                             3.75 %
2.     If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)    To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b)    Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.


﻿-9-
3.    (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable oil each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.    If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.


﻿-10-
APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1.    "Bank of Mauritius" or "BOM" means the Bank of Mauritius established
pursuant to the Bank of Mauritius Act, inter alia, to act as the central bank of
Mauritius.
2.     "Bank of Mauritius Act" means the Bank of Mauritius Act 2004 (Act N. 34 of
2004).
3.     "Cabinet" means the Borrower's cabinet of ministers.
4.     "DBM" means the Development Bank of Mauritius Limited, a company and
incorporated and established under the Borrower's Companies Act for the
purpose of facilitating the industrial, agricultural and economic development of
Mauritius.
3.    "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group        Sub-group      Description of Item
112                       Alcoholic beverages
121                       Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                       Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                       Radioactive and associated materials
667                       Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked


﻿- 11 -
718         718.7        Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728         728.43       Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3       Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971                      Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
4.     "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
5.     "ICT" means Information and Communication Technologies.
6.     "ICT Act" means the Information and Communication Technologies Act 2001
(Act No. 44 of 2001).
7.     "ICT Authority" means the ICT Authority established pursuant section 4 of the
ICT Act, inter alia, to license and regulate information and communication
services.
8.     "Insolvency Act" means the Insolvency Act 2009 (Act N. 3 of 2009).


﻿-12-
9.     "MCIB" means Mauritius Credit Information Bureau, a unit of the Bank of
Mauritius established pursuant to section 52 of the Bank of Mauritius Act to
ensure the development of an overall sound credit environment.
10.    "MoBEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Business, Enterprise and
Cooperatives.
11.   "MSME" means micro, small and medium enterprise.
12.   "SME" means small and medium scale enterprise. and "SMEs" means more than
one SME.
13.    "SMEDA" means Small and Medium Enterprises Development Authority
established pursuant to the Small and Medium Enterprises Development
(SMEDA) Act to promote and develop entrepreneurship.
14.    "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed
to strengthen the policy and institutional environment to support competitiveness
and enterprise development, and set forth or referred to in the letter
dated February 8, 2012 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
15.    "Register of Insolvency Practitioners" means the Register of Insolvency
Practitioners provided for in section 374 of the Insolvency Act.
16.   "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section 11 of Schedule I to this Agreement.
17.    "Transcription and Mortgage Act" means Transcription and Mortgage Act 1982.
Section I. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3.     Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.


﻿- 13 -
4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c)    The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
(c)    The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b)    A new definition of GBP is added as follows:
"GBP", "E", "Sterling" or "STG" means the lawful currency of the
United Kingdom."
(c)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.


﻿- 14 -
(d)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
(e)    The definition of "Reference Rate" is modified by inserting "GBP" in
the first sentence of sub-paragraph (a) and in sub-paragraph (c) thereof.
(f)    The definition of "Reference Rate Reset Date" is modified by inserting
therein an additional sub-paragraph that reads as follows:
"Reference Rate Reset Date" means, for GBP, the first day of the
relevant Interest Period (or in the case of the initial Interest Period, the
first or fifteenth day of the month in which the Loan Agreement is
signed, whichever day immediately precedes the date of the Loan
Agreement; provided that if the date of the Loan Agreement falls on the
first or fifteenth day of such month, the Reference Rate Reset Date shall
be such first or fifteenth day as the case may be).


