Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19381 DO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12.3 MILLION
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FORA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY REFORM PROJECT
June 10, 1999
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Unit
Caribbean Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 27, 1999)
Currency tUnit = Dominican Republic Pesos (RD$)
RD$1.0 = US$0.06
US$1.0 = RD$15.75
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank
CDT                  Contribucion al Desarrollo de las Telecomunicaciones
(Contribution to Telecommunications Development levy)
DGT                 Direcci6n General de Telecomunicaciones
(Directorate-General of Telecommunications)
FDT                 Fondo para la financiaci6n de proyectos de desarrollo
(Fundfor the Development of Telecommunications)
INDOTEL             Instituto Dominicano de Telecomunicaciones
(Dominican Institute of Telecommunications)
ITU                 Intemational Telecommunications Union
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative (of the World Bank)
PMR                 Project Management Report
PMU                  Project Management Unit
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
RFP                  Request for Proposal
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
STP                 Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia
(Technical Secretariat of the Presidency)
TOR                 Terns of Reference
WTO                  World Trade Organization
Vice ]President: David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director: 0. Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director: D. Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: H. von Gersdorff



Dominican Republic
Telecommunications Regulatory Reform
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective                                           ..............................................................1
1. Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators ......................................1
B: Strategic Context .........................................................................1
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project ..........1
2. Main  Sector Issues and Government Strategy .............................................................,.1
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ...................................2
C: Project Description Summary .............................................................4
1. Project Components ................................................                 ,          .           ,          .          4
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project .........................................5
3. Benefits and Target Population ................................................5
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ................................................5
D: Project Rationale ...........................................................6
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ...............................................6
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies ..........6
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design .........................................................7
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .......................................................7
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project ................................................                        ,      .     7
E: Summary Project Analyses .............................................8
1. Economic .............................................8
2. Financial .............................................8
3. Technical .............................................9
4. Institutional .............................................9
5. Social ............................................                                                                             10
6. Environmental Assessment ............................................                                                           10
7. Participatory Approach ....... I I
F: Sustainability and Risks ............................................                                                                               11
1. Sustainability ........................                  ,,,.. 11
2. Critical risks .......................                                                                                           12
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .......................                                                                           12
G: Main Loan Conditions ..................................                                                                                              13
1. Accounts/Audits .,,,,,, 13
2. Disbursement ............................                                                                                       13
3. Project Implementation ............................                                                                             13
H: Readiness for Implementation ............................                                                                                            13
I: Compliance with Bank Policies ............................                                                                                           14



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I      Project Design Summary
Annex 2      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4      Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5      Financial Summary
Annex 6      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.1   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A.2   Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8      Documents in Project File
Annex 9       Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10     Country at a Glance
Map



Dominican Republic
Telecommunications Regulatory Reform
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Latin America and the Caribbean Department
Date: June 10, 1999                           Task Team Leader/Task Manager: H. von Gersdorff
Country Manager/Director: 0. Kalantzopoulos   Sector Manager/Director: D. Leipziger
Project ID: 52736  Sector: Telecommunications   Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: SIL                       Program of Targeted Intervention:   [] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data   [X] Loan          [] Credit   [  Guarantee       [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$12.3 mln
Proposed terms:                           [   Multicurrency         [ X ] Single currency (US$)
Grace period (years): 3              []  Standard Variable    [ X ] Fixed   [ ] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 9
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front-end fee: 1.0%
Financing plan (US$mln):
Source                           Local         Foreign      Total
INDOTEL                                      9.35                      9.35
IBRD                                          1.98          10.32     12.30
Total                                        11.33          10.32     21.65
Borrower: The Dominican Republic
Executing Agency: INDOTEL
Estimated disbursements                          2000      2001      2002      2003        2004
(Bank FY/US$mln)
Annual              3.92      5.08     2.30       0.76         0.24
Cumulative          3.92      9.00     11.31      12.06       12.30
Project implementation period: 4.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: December 22, 1999
Expected closing date: June 30, 2004



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page I
Country: Dominican Republic
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICA TORS
The project seeks to strengthen the policy, legal and regulatory environment in the telecommunications
sector and improve rural access to services by encouraging private investment in those areas.
Key indicators of success in achieving the project development objectives will be:
* decrease in the number of illegal transmitters by 75% by year four;
*  rural access to telecommunications services increased from 40% to 50% by year four; and
* total number of lines (including mobile) per 100 inhabitants increased from 10 to 14 by year four.
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRYASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT
CAS DOCUMENT NUMBER: 14260-DO    DATE OF LATEST CAS DISCUSSION: MAY 2, 1995
The CAS stresses the need to:
*  ease infrastructure constraints to private sector development;
*  increase the coverage of basic infrastructure services; and
*  involve the private sector in the provision of these services.
The project will support these goals by improving the efficiency of infrastructure services provision and
expanding service coverage to rural areas.
2. MAINSECTORISSUESAND GOVERANMENTSTRATEGY
The telecommunications sector in the Dominican Republic has enjoyed rapid expansion over the past
decade with an average annual growth in the total number of lines of 15%. The sector currently accounts
for about 4.5% of GDP, having increased in relative importance over the past several years.
Notwithstanding this impressive overall performance, sector growth has been heavily skewed in favor of
mobile and value-added services; development of telecommunications has virtually ceased in the rural
communities despite a high level of unmet demand in that area. Growth in residential areas has also been
very low. The reason for this imbalance is due to the business strategies -- reflecting weak incentives --
of the telecommunications operators.
Telecommunication services have been provided by three licensed private sector enterprises for the past
three decades - CODETEL, Tricom (a Dominican firm which has entered a partnership with Motorola),
and All American Cable and Radio (a Dominican company recently bought by the American company
World Teleport). CODETEL had enjoyed the dominant position providing fixed lined, long-distance, and
international services until the early 1990s when Tricom and All American sought to more aggressively
enter the market for provision of long-distance telephony services. CODETEL, however, imposed high
interconnection charges making access by the two firms very difficult. Mandatory interconnection
charges reflecting more realistic costs were decreed by the Government in 1995, which permitted Tricom
and All American to begin providing competitive services. CODETEL, however, continues to enjoy
market dominance in telephony services, with a 70-80% share of all sub-markets.
Despite the opening of international services to competition, the provision of local services have been
neglected by the new operators since the tariffs were unattractively low (having been cross-subsidized by
the high tariffs on international services). But with increasing competition in international services,



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 2
Country: Dominican Republic
returns on these operations have also fallen and operators have sought to expand into mobile and value-
added services which yield relatively higher returns. They have ignored the rural sector altogether.
In 1993 the three telecommunications companies began consultations with the Government to draft a new
telecommunications law which would reflect the new competitive environment and be consistent: with
International Telecommunication Union (ITU) standards. In 1995, the Government responded by
beginning to draft new legislation covering interconnection and tariff re-balancing, as well as the need to
further develop telecommunications in the rural areas. It sought assistance from the ITU to include more
general provisions covering technical and operational regulations, radio spectrum management, and rural
telecommunications. The draft law also included the ratification of commitments made by the
Government to the WTO Agreement on Basic Telecommunications. Finally in April 1998, the draft law
was considered and passed by Congress.
The new legislation reflects a consensus among the local stakeholders, including broadcasters, who have
been brought within the regime. Key elements of the new regime are: (i) open entry; (ii) mandatory
interconnection; (iii) price regulation limited to those services provided by dominant operators; (iv)
establishment of an autonomous regulatory institution which will be financed by a portion of a 2% levy
assessed on end-user telecommunication services and net international settlements (Contribuci6n al
Desarrollo de las Telecomunicaciones (CDT)); and (v) universal service provided by the private sector
but assisted by the Fondo para la financiaci6n de proyectos de desarrollo (FDT) which is financed from
the CDT levy.
The provision of services to rural areas had been the responsibility of the Directorate-General of
Telecommunications in the Secretariat of Public Works (DGT). The Secretariat employs about 730 staff
to operate its telegraph system and charges only nominal fees. The system is virtually entirely financed
out of public funds. Moreover, recent advances in technology offer means to improve cornmunications
service provision to these rural areas, while reducing (or eliminating) the burden on public expenditures.
In light of these factors, under the new law the DGT will be dismantled.
As provided for by the new law, the DGT will be replaced by INDOTEL, the new regulatory entity.
INDOTEL will have only a role as a regulator and will not operate any systems, unlike the DGT had
done. INDOTEL will now be responsible for sector regulation, planning, and policy. This includes the
policy to extend coverage to rural areas which private sector providers have not reached.
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BEADDRESSED) BY THE PROJECTAND STRATEGIC CHOICES
The telecommunications sector issues to be addressed by the project include the following:
Implementation of a modern regulatory framework: The former regulatory regime which dated from
1966 did not establish clear rules of the game either in terms of entry or competition in the
telecommunications sector. This conferred a strong advantage to the incumbent provider by discouraging
new entrants. In addition, tariffs reflected substantial cross subsidies; international long distance service
tariffs are set far above costs, in order to subsidize local service. In the past three years, international
service prices have come down with the entry of the two competitors to CODETEL. In 1995, the
Government granted increases in basic local rates in response to pressure from CODETE]L, slightly
reducing the cross-subsidy. The project would support the drafting and implementation of legal,
economic, and technical regulations related to further tariff re-balancing, interconnection agreements,
and technical plans.
Establishment of an independent regulatory agency: The project would support the establishment of a
new regulatory agency (INDOTEL) instead of strengthening the regulatory capacity of the DGT; the
project will assist the Govemment in closing DGT in an orderly manner, including the financing of



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 3
Country: Dominican Republic
severance payments. In addition to the fact that the operations of DGT are no longer necessary, the
separation of regulation from operation of the system is a basic regulatory principle. Best regulatory
practice has shown that regulatory bodies should be autonomous from the government and not located
within a ministry (e.g., DGT). It is preferable to create an independent, technical, and self-financed
regulatory entity to grant new licenses, solve disputes among operators, and protect the public interest.
To promote independence, the new law provides for a five-member board which will oversee the policies
and operations of INDOTEL. The board has been appointed by the President and includes members
representing the telecommunications operators (1); broadcasters (1); consumers (1); the Technical
Secretariat of the Presidency (1); and a separate member (1) appointed by the President.
In addition to assistance in INDOTEL's organization and design, the project would finance some start-up
costs of INDOTEL (salaries of key management, office equipment/systems, and technical assistance).
Technical assistance would include training of staff, overseas visits, and consultancies to cover detailed
elaboration of the organizational structure, job descriptions, internal systems, and procedures. Additional
consultancies would be required to elaborate and implement the FDT. It is expected that INDOTEL
would be self-financing within four years. The new law allows for a portion of the CDT to be allocated to
INDOTEL for its operating expenses. The percent share of the CDT allocated for the regulator's
operations is to be determined and set forth in the new regulations, but it is expected to be 20%. In
addition, INDOTEL would generate revenue from radio spectrum use fees (see below); if such revenue
exceeds related costs it will be transferred to the FDT.
Spectrum management will be a function for which INDOTEL would need substantial technical and
financial support from the project, in a telecommunications sector that relies increasingly on wireless
communications. The project would help the Government to devise a strategy regarding management of
the radio frequency spectrum and to assist the new regulatory agency in implementing the strategy. Radio
frequency spectrum was initially allocated to licensees without charge. As demand for spectrum access
has increased, the Government has recognized the need to determine policies and procedures for
allocating this scarce resource. A standard option is to auction spectrum. Since radio frequency spectrum
was already allocated to licensees without charge, the implications for current licensees would need to be
carefully considered. Alternative allocation methodologies would also be investigated and assessed. The
policy adopted would need support in implementation.
In addition, INDOTEL's spectrum management responsibilities will require access to monitoring and
management systems. As part of project preparation, an earlier study of equipment and systems needs has
been reviewed and expanded (i.e., detailed engineering and costing) to determine the number, location,
and characteristics of this system and for preparation of the bidding documents. After the system has
been purchased, staff must be trained in its use and maintenance.
Provision of service to rural areas: Rural areas have relied mainly on a public telegraph network,
financed by a loan from the Japanese Government in 1981 and operated by DGT at highly subsidized
rates financed out of public funds. Because of poor maintenance, however, this network is no longer
operational, although some of the assets are still in place. An initial study funded by the project would
identify the needs and demand for communications services in rural areas, design the legal and
contractual arrangements under which these would be provided by private firms, and recommend bidding
and other operating procedures. The law requires that subsidies for the provision of rural services would
be bid out on the basis of least-cost subsidy, financed by the FDT. The law also mandates that the FDT,
to be managed by INDOTEL, be ready to provide subsidies within one year of the date in which
INDOTEL becomes operational. During the project implementation period, annual studies of rural
services would be conducted to determine whether the FDT subsidies are appropriately addressing rural
needs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 4
Country: Dominican Republic
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS (SEE ANNEX2 FOR A DETAILED DESCRIPTIONAND ANNEx 3 FOR A DETAILED COST
BREAKDOWN)
Component                 Category       Cost Incl.     % of      Bank-      % of Bank-
Contingencies   Total   financing   financing of
(US$mln)     Project  (US$mln)   component
1) Create new
telecommunications regulatory
framework to:                    Policy               2.06       10%        2.06         100%
* Draft clear regulations for:
> Interconnection agreements
> Issuing licenses
> Resolution of disputes
> Radio frequency use and mgm't
> Different types of existing
services and new services
* Rebalance tariffs to reduce cross
subsidies and reflect marginal costs
* Design and administer FDT
2) Create new autonomous
telecommunications regulatory
entity
e Appoint executive management and  Institution        15.17        70%        5.82         38%
key staff                        building
* Defme organizational functions and
procedures
* Recruit and train technical staff
* Procure spectrum monitoring
equipment
* Procure office and computer
equipment; office space
* Obtain technical assistance during
start-up phase
3) Closure of DGT
* Transfer regulatory functions to  Policy             1.65          8%        1.65         100%
INDOTEL
* Fund severance compensation
4) Project management
* Financing of key management for    Project
PMU and INDOTEL                  management          2.78         13%       2.78         100%
* Project audit
* Public information campaign to
educate public on rationale and
benefits of reform program
TOTAL                                                  21.65        100%      12.30         56%



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 5
Country: Dominican Republic
2. KEYPOLICYAND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT
The project would assist the Government in developing the capacity of the new regulatory agency,
INDOTEL. Once INDOTEL is fully operational, it would absorb the Project Management Unit (PMU).
Until that time, the PMU would remain in the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency.
Under the new law, DGT will be shut down and labor redundancies would be financed by the project.
Initial estimates based on a review of civil service employment law indicate that the amount for severance
payments would be US$1.65 mln.
3. BENEFITSAND TARGETPOPULATION
The project would benefit all telecommunications users in the Dominican Republic by increasing the
availability and quality of telephone services. The introduction of greater competition in the sector and
the stronger role of the regulating agency will serve to control cost of services and also have a favorable
impact on service quality and variety.
The expansion and improvement of telecommunications services would contribute to economic
development and improve the quality of life by improving health and education services and enhancing
public administration. Residents of rural areas, in particular, would benefit greatly by obtaining access to
telephone services, often for the first time.
Businesses, which increasingly depend upon telecommunication services to be competitive, will benefit
especially from lower costs for international communications and greater variety of value-added services.
Moreover, foreign investors will be more attracted to the Dominican Republic if it has a modem
telecommunications sector.
Creating a strong regulator, INDOTEL, would lead to more transparent and accountable regulatory
framework, reducing the risks and increasing the interest of private investors (especially foreign) as
operators would know the rules for licensing, tariff adjustments, interconnection, etc. INDOTEL would
also gain by developing its capacity to manage radio spectrum and thereby ensure the availability of
frequencies and reduce radio interference problems. This would make private investment in wireless
technologies more attractive and improve the quality of services offered.
The Government also has much to gain from the modernization of the regulatory framework, supported
by the project. Government expenditures would be reduced by the closure of the DGT. The new
regulatory agency would eventually be self-financing via the CDT and revenue from fees. In addition,
greater competition among telecommunications operators will lead to improved services and thereby
stimulate economic growth, resulting in greater revenues to the Government from operator licenses and
tax receipts. The FDT, in particular, will support build-out of rural telecommunications.
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Initially, project implementation would be undertaken by the PMU (part of the Technical Secretariat of
the Presidency), which successfully prepared the project. The management of the remaining activities of
the project (principally training of staff, purchase of the spectrum monitoring system, and implementation
of the FDT) would be taken over by INDOTEL once it is operational, which is expected within six
months of project commencement.
By February of each year, the PMU/INDOTEL will prepare a progress report of the preceding year's
operations and a detailed management report for the forthcoming year. In addition, the Bank will
undertake semi-annual supervision missions. The PMU/INDOTEL will conduct a mid-term review to



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 6
Country: Dominican Republic
evaluate progress of implementation against planned objectives. The PMU/INDOTEL will also prepare a
project Implementation Completion Report not later than six months after the closing date of the loan.
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. PROJECTALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION
The Bank considered initially the alternative of preparing this project as part of an operation that would
address infrastructure constraints as a whole. Representatives from the Presidency and the Ministry of
Finance, however, specifically requested that the Bank first assist in the implementation cf the new
regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector. They asked that this be processed quickly as a
separate, free-standing operation to take advantage of momentum toward change in the sector generated
in the drafting of the new legislation.
Another project alternative which was considered was to sub-contract the monitoring of radio frequencies
to a private firm, rather than to have INDOTEL procure the system and undertake the actual monitoring.
This alternative was rejected, however, since given the country's small size it would be hard to attract an
interested firm. Moreover, other countries' experience with sub-contracting of this function has been
disappointing.
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANKAND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENTAGENCI.ES
Sector issue                  Project            Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
________________   (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Power loan addressing transmission issues   Power Loan
to facilitate private provision of electricity. (in preparation)
Seeks to bring highway network to     Highway                 S              S
acceptable standards and to improve public  Maintenance
works department.
Other development agencies
ITU: Modernization of telecommunications  Telecom TA
law
Power Loan
IDB: Power privatization
Reform of Public
IDB: Privatization of public enterprises  Enterprises Loan
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 7
Country: Dominican Republic
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN
Lessons learned in other restructuring and privatization projects in the telecommunications sector are
reflected in the project design. These are:
*  A clear, predictable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to attracting investment in the sector.
* Government should create an independent, technical, and self-financed regulatory entity to grant new
licenses, solve disputes among operators, and protect the public interest.
* Government should not participate as a provider of telecommunications services, which are more
efficiently run by private companies.
* Telecommunication investments in rural areas can yield, on average, an adequate and even high
economic as well as financial rate of return. Servicing the remotest areas, however, represents higher
costs per line and greater risk, and therefore may require a subsidy.
* Universal access funds have been successfully used in both industrialized and developing countries.
In Chile, which is considered a best practice example, the amount of the subsidies were actually quite
low but provided considerable leverage to generate much greater telecommunications development in
the rural sector. The subsidies were distributed competitively (ranging from 0 to US$10,000 per
line), using a least-cost approach with a one-time subsidy for capital, rather than for recurrent costs.
* Whether a universal access fund is successful or not will depend in large measure on whether it is
complemented by sector liberalization and reform. The most significant profitability factors for rural
investments relate more to policy variables (especially interconnection and tariffs) than to risk and
financial variables. It is important to note, however, that reform efforts are likely to have more
impact if they are backed with such financial incentives, albeit relatively small overall.
* Newly-created regulatory entities are frequently overwhelmed but have little expertise to draw upon.
Providing on-site consultant support and hand-holding during the initial start-up phase has been
shown to be very useful.
* A project that is tightly focused and simple to administer (e.g., focusing just on telecommunications
rather than including other sectors) is less likely to get bogged down by administrative or other
procedural delays. In the Dominican Republic, this is particularly important since the Bank and the
country have limited recent experience in implementing private sector development projects, which
increases the risk of such process-related delays. The learning on both sides through the processing
of this simpler project could facilitate later attempts at more ambitious operations (including some
already initiated).
4. INDICATioNS OF BORROWER COMmITMENTAND OWNERSHIP
The Government is clearly committed to this project, as indicated by:
*  Congressional passage of the new telecommunications law in April 1998;
*  Government co-financing (with private firms) an initial study to prepare the new
telecommunications law;
*  Liberalization of long distance tariffs and adjustment of basic telephone tariffs to better reflect
costs and reduce cross subsidies;
*  Issuance of decree for mandatory interconnection among providers of telecommunication services
to increase competition;
*  Sought out and explicitly requested the Bank's assistance to prepare this project;
*  Successful preparation of project, funded by a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance; and
*  Appointment of the Board of Directors of INDOTEL on April 21, 1999.
5. VALUEADDEDOF BANK SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT
The Government of the Dominican Republic values the Bank's worldwide experience in the restructuring
of the telecommunications sector, especially its involvement in several Latin American countries such as
Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela, Peru, and Bolivia. In those countries the Bank has assisted governments



F'roject Appraisal Document                                                                Page 8
C,ountry: Dominican Republic
to create a new regulatory framework, establish new regulatory institutions, and privatize the public
enterprise in charge of telecommuniication operations.
By supporting a regulatory reform program together with the creation of a universal accessi fund, the Bank
is assisting the Government in attracting private investment to the most difficult and least attractive part
of the telecommunications market. Through the Bank's leverage to affect change in such Icey regulatory
areas as interconnection and tariff policies, the long-term returns on the rural subsidies will be great.
E: Summary Project Analyses
(Detailed analyses are in the priject file, see Annex 8)
i'. ECONOMIC (SUPPORTEDBYANNEx4):
Economic evaluation methodology:
f ] Cost-Benefit        [ X ] Cost Effectiveness
The relatively strong performance of the telecommunications sector in recent years has made a significant
contribution to the country's economic growth. Taking into account the benefits of the refbrm program
supported by the project, it is expected that the average annual rate of growth of the telecommunications
sector over the next several years will be about 18% and tapering off slightly thereafter.
The economic benefits of the project are likely to include: increased competition; improved range and
quality of service provision; reduced prices for advanced services that will allow businesses and the
Government to reduce telephony costs and expand their use of information technology; and expanded
access to telecommunications in rural areas. Leveraging rural subsidies with a broader sectoral reform
program will yield significant returns over the longer term. Indeed, the total costs of the subsidies are
likely to be a small fraction of the returns.
Increased telecommunications access to international markets will allow for reduced purchasing costs and
new export opportunities, especially, in the services sector. Advanced information services, also have
wide-ranging applications in health care and education, and these will become more affordable as prices
fall. Such indirect benefits, although difficult to quantify, are certain to far outweigh the directly
rneasured impact.
2. FINANCIAL (SUPPORTED BYANNEX4):
As shown in Annex 4, the project will have an internal rate of return of 25%, according to the
assumptions made and the detailed Financial analysis (in the Project File) that was conducted to evaluate
the financial impact of the project.
Tariff rebalancing: To better reflect actual costs and thereby encourage competition in local services, the
Government allowed increases in the monthly tariff for the first residential line. Despite these increases,
however, cross-subsidies still exist between international and local services. To correct this further, the
new telecommunications law requires that the prices of local services for the first residential line must
reflect costs by end-2000. To this end, the project would support studies for tariff rebalancing which will
be submitted to a newly-appointed rate rebalancing commission. This commission will evaluate these
studies and will recommend the schedule for rebalancing tariffs.
Fiscal impact: The financial analysis (in the Project File) suggests that overall there will be a positive
fiscal impact for the Government. The new law allows for the imposition of a new 2% levy (CDT) on
end-user telecommunications services and net international settlements. The revenues from the CDT will
be allocated to 1NDOTEL for its operations (expected to be 20% of CDT revenue) and to the FDT (80%
share of CDT revenue) to subsidize the expansion of telecommunications services in rural areas.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 9
Country: Dominican Republic
The CDT levy replaces the existing 10% tax on international and long-distance telecommunication
services, which had gone directly to the treasury. The Government, therefore, will no longer receive this
revenue nor will it receive revenue from the CDT which will go directly to INDOTEL (an autonomous
self-financing agency) and the FDT. At the same time, the Government budget transfers to finance DGT
and its rural operations will be eliminated. While the net fiscal impact during the initial transition period
is expected to be negative, over the medium-term Government tax revenues will be more than off-set by
an increase in the income and value-added taxes generated from the expansion of telecommunications
activities (especially in the rural sector) as a result of the reform efforts.
3. TECHNICAL:
Technical viability is mostly a concern for the equipment required for radio spectrum monitoring and
direction-finding. While this equipment is readily available, it is highly specialized. Portable monitoring
and direction-finding equipment is required for compliance and interference resolution. To minimize
technical risks associated with this project activity, the following requirements have been built into the
component design:
* A technical training program for INDOTEL personnel on radio spectrum management,
monitoring, and measuring; and
* Procurement of the radio spectrum equipment will be on a turn-key basis and include
engineering, installation, commissioning, testing, systems training, one-year warranty, one-
year operational support, and Y2K compliance.
4. INSTITUTIONAL:
Project Management: The Government of the Dominican Republic will be the borrower and INDOTEL
will be the executing agency. The project was prepared by a special project management unit which was
part of the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency. The PMU includes the project manager, a lawyer, an
economist, a project accountant; and a technical specialist. The PMU has demonstrated a high level of
competence in preparing the project. Once INDOTEL is operational, it would absorb the PMU and be
responsible for all project-related activities. The PMU/INDOTEL will have the important task of
assessing project progress and alerting all concerned if there are difficulties. The project management
component provides resources for key staff of the PMU/INDOTEL, office equipment/supplies, as well as
technical assistance for the first 18 months of start-up. An important aspect of Bank supervision of the
project will be to ensure that adequate resources are, in fact, being dedicated to the project and that project
management tasks are being undertaken in a timely manner by appropriate personnel.
Financial Management System: In a pre-appraisal mission of a Bank Financial Management Specialist
(FMS) an Action Plan for the establishment of a financial management system was agreed to between the
Bank and project management. According to this plan, a project accountant and an accounting firm as
project auditor have been selected. In addition, a firm has been retained to prepare a financial
management system for cash management, accounting, internal control and financial reporting to be fully
in place prior to project effectiveness, including the preparation of an operational manual. The financial
management system incorporates the use of procedures under the Bank's Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI), but allows for the use of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) in the event that the project
is not completely prepared for the new procedures upon effectiveness.
In accordance with LACI, on a quarterly basis the PMU would produce and submit to the Bank a Project
Monitoring Report (PMR), which allows for the simultaneous monitoring of financial, physical, and
procurement activity of the project, while also serving as an application for disbursement from the loan
account. In addition to submission of quarterly PMRs, the project will be required to submit an annual
audit report to the Bank, the format of which was discussed with the borrower during pre-appraisal. The



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 10
Country: Dominican Republic
audit should be performed by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and the report should be
received by the Bank no later than six months after the close of the project's financial year (December).
Procurement: Based on a borrower procurement capacity assessment conducted by a Bank procurement
specialist, it was agreed that procurement will be handled by the PMU which will retain a qualified
procurement expert to assist in the preparation of RFPs, bidding documents, advertisements, and other
procurement activities financed by the project. A manual on procedures for project operatiions will be also
be issued by INDOTEL
Redundancies: To ensure the technical competence of the new regulator, INDOTEL will be free to
recruit new qualified staff. To this end, the Government has taken the decision to make most of the 730
DGT employees redundant, rather than retain them in the new regulatory entity. The project would fund
their severance payments in accordance with guidelines set out in the Bank Operational M[emorandum of
March 5, 1996, as well as with the Dominican Republic national civil service labor law (Law No. 14-9 1),
which allows up to one year of salary for those having served ten years or more. Workers who will be
retained by INDOTEL will be identified prior to the granting of the severance packages, and will not be
eligible for those payments. The risk of adverse publicity as the result of the DGT redundancies is
considered very small since the severance packages have been fully agreed to by the affected workers.
The financial and economic analysis takes into account, among other things, the costs of the severance
package as well as the discontinuation of Government transfers to the DGT (see Annex 4). It is expected
that the benefits of eliminating the inefficient and obsolete DGT will far exceed the costs, in terms of an
improved telecommunications regulatory framework which will encourage competition, productivity, and
growth.
Disposal of DGT assets: The Government intends to de-link the sale of the remaining DGCT assets with
its strategy to encourage rural access. Therefore, rural towers and any other salvageable equipment will
be sold publicly; firms receiving subsidies from the FDT to develop rural operations will not be required
to purchase or use the DGT assets.
5. SOCIAL:
A major focus of this project will be to support the expansion of telecommunications to rural areas. A
study would be undertaken to assess the type of service and number of lines rural citizens require. Based
on this study, the FDT would be designed to encourage the expansion of the services which best address
the identified needs. Each year of the project, a new rural demand study would be conducted to ensure
that FDT subsidies are being optimized and appropriately directed.
Workers affected by the closure of DGT have already been consulted and participated in the planning of
severance payments.
The PMU/INDOTEL will oversee a public relations campaign to educate the public on the rationale and
the benefits of the reform program, embodied in the new telecommunications law. Specifically, the
campaign will emphasize the development of rural telecommunications; the benefits that increased
competition will yield (e.g., improved variety of services at lower costs); and the role of the new regulator
(e.g., handling consumer complaints).
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT:      ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY    [IA   []B   [XI C
This is a telecommunications restructuring project, which involves primarily policy and institution
building components. The radio spectrum monitoring equipment to be financed by the project for use by
rNDOTEL receives radio and other electromagnetic signals to determine which frequencies are in use and
by whom. It produces no pollution, can be small enough to fit inside a briefcase, and will be operated out



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 11
Country: Dominican Republic
The FDT will be designed to include an enviromnental assessment of all rural expansion projects
supported by the Fund, to ensure that there is no adverse environmental impact.
Unlike other infrastructure projects that may degrade the environment, telecommunication projects yield
environmental benefits inasmuch as they:
* Substitute transport by clean communication using electromagnetic signals;
* Provide the means for people to communicate, including the detection and correction of
environmental hazards; and
* Are used as a means to monitor the quality of the environment including the pollution in water,
air and deforestation using satellite imagery.
Competitive pricing of communications could benefit the environment by permitting development of non-
tourism service exports such as data processing and computer-based services, which are environmentally
friendly.
7. PARTICIPATORYAPPROACH.
Project preparation included consultation with public and private stakeholders and has generated support
from them. In particular, during the drafting of the new telecommunications law, the private operators
were extensively consulted. On-going discussions have continued with the three operating telephone
companies: CODETEL, Tricom, and All American Cable and Radio. In addition, nine companies which
have been licensed but not yet operational had been consulted. The rural workers affected by the closure
of DGT were consulted and participated in the planning of severance payments. And importantly, the
views and telecommunication needs of the rural population would be solicited and reflected in the design
of the FDT.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. SUSTAINABILITY:
If properly implemented, the benefits from the project should be permanent because the legal and
regulatory framework would provide for adequate operational and financial independence for the new
regulatory entity. The main risks to sustainability are:
* The Government delays execution of the project, such that there is no financing available for
technical assistance at critical junctures in preparation of regulations and the design of the
regulatory agency.
* Once INDOTEL becomes operational, the Government could seek to intervene in its actions, or
INDOTEL could take actions (possibly politically motivated) which would reduce investor and
consumer confidence.



IProject Appraisal Document                                                          Page 12
Country: Dominican Republic
.2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk             Risk Minimization Measure
'from Outputs to Objective "
Delays in execution of project by Government    S    Establish strong counterpart relationship with the
Technical Secretary of the Presidency and include
key officials in core team that will develop
regulations, new regulatory entity.
Political will wanes to implement regulatory  M   (idem)
framework to promote competition and
efficiency.
]3acktracking on tariff policy (e.g., reversal of    M  (idem)
cross-subsidy reduction)
Government could seek to intervene in       S    Limit the scope of actions by the regulator through
INDOTEL's actions or INDOTEL could take           the use of concession contracts and requiring public
actions (possibly politically motivated) which    consultations before it takes deciisions.
reduce investor and consumer confidence.
Regulatory agency does not have sufficiently  M   New CDT levy to provide funding for regulatory
qualified staff and adequate financial            agency; project to support strengthening of
resources.                                        institutional capacity.
'from Components to Outputs"
Low quality of preparatory and other        M     Bank oversight of terns of reference, selection and
technical outputs.                                work of technical experts.
Inadequate capacity of the Project          M     Bank-approved TORs and PPF fanding for
Management Unit.                                  assistance to design financial management system
and specialized staff recruited for procurement
tasks.
Overall Risk Rating    M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System)
Risk                   Type of   Risk   Risk Minimization Measure
Risk    Rating
Labor unrest due to redundancies of telegraph    S   N     Consultation with workers and
vvorkers                                                   severance program
Public information carmpaign
Type of Risk - S (Social);
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 13
Country: Dominican Republic
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
Conditions of Effectiveness:
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and INDOTEL.
A financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank is in place for INDOTEL.
INDOTEL shall issue a manual on Procurement Procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, to be used for
Project operations.
Accounts/Audits:
The PMU shall prepare and provide acceptable audits for all accounts to the Bank, as required under the
Loan Agreement. Annual standard project financial audits will be carried out according to terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and shall be furnished to the Bank no later than six months after the
close of the project's financial year (December).
In accordance with the Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), on a quarterly basis the
PMU shall produce and submit to the Bank a Project Management Report (PMR), which allows for the
simultaneous monitoring of financial, physical, and procurement activity of the project, while also serving
as an application for disbursement from the loan account. The first PMR will be for the initial advance to
the Special Account, with the amount requested being based on the projected Bank-eligible expenditures
for the first six months of project execution.
Disbursement.
No disbursement for the DGT severance compensation shall be made until the Borrower provides a
severance program which is satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement/Project Implementation:
The responsibilities for project management shall initially reside in the PMU until INDOTEL is fully
operational. At that time, INDOTEL shall then be responsible for all project management and for this
purpose shall maintain sufficient staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank until completion of the
project.
By February 28 of each year, the PMU in INDOTEL shall prepare a progress report of the preceding
year's operations and a detailed management report for the forthcoming year. The Borrower shall review
this report with the Bank not later than March 31 of each year.
The PMU in INDOTEL shall conduct a mid-term review on or about March 31, 2001 to evaluate progress
of implementation against planned objectives.
The PMU in INDOTEL shall prepare a project Implementation Completion Report to be submitted to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the closing date of June 30, 2004.
The PMU in INDOTEL shall furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the closing date a plan
for the future operation of the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 14
Country: Dominican Republic
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ X ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[ X ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready fir the start of
project implementation.
[ X ] The Project Implementation FPlan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
?fermrn(/Y von Gerof
T ask team Lead  /Task Manager
Dan      pziger
Sector Director
O)rsalia Kalantzo    os
Country M,aerlDirector



Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Dominican Republic: Telecommunications Regulatory Reform
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:
I) Ease infrastructure constraints   Investment by private companies    Economic indicators monitored by   Macroeconomic and political
to private sector development   in the sector increases          the Govemment and the Bank       stability
2) Increase the coverage of basic    Increase infrastructure coverage in
infrastructure services and involve   rural areas
the private sector in the provision
of those services
Project Development Objective:
Strengthen the policy and       Decrease in the number of illegal   Monitoring by the Technical   Government continues its
regulatory environment in the   transmitters by 75% by yr. 4     Secretary of the Presidency,     policy to invite private
telecommunications sector and                                    regulator, and the Bank (semi-   participation in infrastructure
improve rural access to services by  Rural access to             annual supervision missions)
encouraging private investment in  telecommunications services
those areas.                    increased from 40% to 50% by yr.  Rural demand studies (semi-
4                               annual)
Total no. of lines (including
mobile) per 100 inhabitants
increased from 10 to 14 by yr.4
Project Outputs:
1) New telecommunications        Tariffs rebalanced              Monitoring by the Technical      Timely execution of project
regulatory framework                                             Secretary of the Presidency,     by Government
Regulations/guidelines for      regulator, and the Bank (bi-annual
interconnection agreements      supervision missions)           Government continues to
implement regulatory
Procedures for issuing licenses  Telecommunication rates        framework to promote
competition and efficiency
Regulations for radio frequency
use and management                                              No backtracking on tariffs
policy (e.g., reversal of
Procedures for resolution of                                    reduction of cross-subsidy)
disputes
Regulations for each type of
existing service and guidelines for
new services
FDT established and operational



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
2) New autonomous                INDOTE]L executive management                                    Regulator avoids actions,
telecommunications regulatory    appointed.                                                       possibly politically
entity                                                                                            motivated, which reduce
Procedures, organizational                                      investor and consumer
functions, and roles defined                                     confidence
Key staff appointed                                              Regulatory agency has
qualified staff and adequate
Technical staff recruited and                                    finamcial resources
trained
Regulator financially self-
sufficient within 4 yrs.
3) Closure of DGT               DGT's regulatory functions (and                                   Social acceptance of
some qualified staff) transferred to                             redundancies
the new regulatory entity
DGT's commercial operations
terminated
Project Components:                         (USSmln)
1) New telecommunications
regulatory framework
* draft competition policy                   2.06                Regular Bank reviews             Adequate quality of
* draft legal regulations                                                                         prelparatory and other
regarding granting concessions,                                                               technical outputs
sanctions, and consumer                                       FDT operational and least-cost
complaints                                                    subsidies granted
* analyze/recommend
interconnection methodology
and operators accounting
standards and propose
interconnection rates and tariffs
* draft technical regulations
* prepare fundamental plans
(numbering, signaling, billing,
routing, etc.)
* demographic studies and
admin., financial and legal
aspects of FDT developed
* prepare tender specifications
for spectrum monitoring
equipment



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
2) New, autonomous
telecommunications regulatory
entity                                       15.17              Organizational and other plans for
*   recruit INDOTEL executive                                   INDOTEL prepared
management and key staff
*   prepare organizational                                      INDOTEL office operational
functions and procedures
*   recruit and train technical                                 Staff trained
staff
*   long-term technical assistance
for start-up
*   develop training plan and
train staff
*   procure spectrum equipment                                  Procurement
(installation/ training)                                    equipment
*   procure computer!
information systems
*   rent office space
*   procure office equ.pment,
furniture
3) Closure of DGT
*   fund severance compensation               1.65              Severance packages paid
4) Project Management
*   financing for key                        2.78               Project supervision will include  Adequate capacity of Project
management of PMU and                                       regular reviews (according to   Management Unit
INDOTEL                                                     LACI guidelines) and mid-term
*   project audit                                               review
*   technical assistance to
undertake public information
campaign
GRAND TOTAL (US$mln)                        21.65



Annex 2
Page I of 4
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Dominican Republic: Telecommunications Regulatory Reformi
Project Component 1: New Telecommunications Regulatory Framework (US$ 2.06 mi)
The objective of this component would be to create the supporting regulations, draft the necessary legal
amendments, and define the technical plans and methodologies to carry out the telecommunications
reform as initiated by the new 1998 Telecommunications Law (no. 153-98).
Develop a policy and draft regulations to promote competition in the telecommunications sector,
consistent with the new law:
> describe the concepts and basic principles to be applied to promote competition;
> define the procedures to determine the existence or not of a dominant position and other exi,ting
restrictions which could impede competition; and
> set forth the mechanisms to determine whether a dominant position is being abused (and to what
extent) to impede competition.
*  Define and design regulations to grant concessions and licenses for telecommunication services:
)  identify which services will require concessions, licenses, and other types of authorization;
>  set out the steps required to obtain the approvals;
t define the necessary technical, economic, and financial information to be provided by the
potential operators;
>  define the required technical specifications of the potential operations;
>  determine when it is desirable to have a bidding process for the concessions and licenses; and
E  establish model contracts for the concessions, licenses, and other authorizations to be filed in
special registries.
*  Analyze current costs and propose interconnection rates and tariffs:
>  determine and analyze the long-run incremental marginal costs of the telecommunications
services for local service;
>  based on these costs, estab'lish a tariff rebalancing scheme to eliminate cross-subsidies between
local and other services;
>  set the interconnection costs between the various service providers; and
>  develop cost-accounting guidelines for operators to ensure that the regulator will have sufficient
input (including the productivity) to determine tariff guidelines.
*  Design and administer the Fondo para el Desarrollo de las Telecomunicaciones (FDT) to provide
financial incentives to expand telecommunication services to rural areas, as provided for under the
new telecommunications law:
>  undertake demographic studies of rural markets (would include initial study and subsequent
follow-up studies);
>  develop a strategic plan and guidelines to provide financial incentives to the private sector to
expand services to rural areas, to be operational within one year of lNDOTEL's esta'blishment;
>  prepare the necessary regulatory, administrative, fiscal, financial and legal aspects of the FDT;
>  develop a program, including training requirements, to implement the FDT; and
>  conduct annual studies to determine whether FDT subsidies are helping to address rural needs.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Develop the fundamental technical plans and basic technical norms which would provide the
basis for an efficient national telephone system, compatible with international standards:
> analyze and design (including the principles, procedures and control systems) for the
fundamental plans for transmission, tariffs, numbering, signaling, service standards and security,
and access;
>  prepare an operational manual setting forth specific guidelines for interconnection arrangements;
>  review, analyze, and design for the management and administration of the technical plans;
; establish procedures for maintenance; and
>  develop a program, including training requirements, to implement the technical plans.
*  Draft technical regulations:
> mobile services (cellular, PCS, beeper, trunking);
> broadcast (am, fm TV (VHF, UHF, cable, mmds)); and
> fixed services (basic telephony, carriers, satellites).
*  Develop a plan for the national allocation of spectrum frequencies:
>  design the overall structure for a plan;
>  draft regulations;
> create and collect data for registry of frequencies;
>  prepare detailed specifications on the use of the spectrum to be allocated to the specific type of
service (e.g., cellular, PCS, trunking, etc.);
>  develop a methodology to set spectrum use fees;
>  set forth the guidelines for management and administration of the spectrum, consistent with ITU
guidelines;
>  prepare a budget to implement and manage the plan;
>  develop a program, including training requirements, to implement the plan.
Project Component 2: New Autonomous Telecommunications Regulatory Entity (US$ 15.17 mln
The objective of this component is to provide support for technical assistance, the recruitment and
training of management and staff, and the procurement of equipment and other office items necessary to
make INDOTEL operational.
* Initial technical assistance will be provided to:
>  establish the rules, policies and procedures related to the intemal operations of the regulatory
agency, including the chart and operational structure and job descriptions;
>  prepare the statute of the organization, including specification of different units and departments,
identifying the role and objectives of each unit, the scope of actions, and the hierarchy of units
and departments;
>  prepare a position manual and definition of the necessary staff for the operation of INDOTEL,
including the profile and skills required and the salaries for all staff;
>  design of a training plan based on skill assessments (this plan would include overseas visits and
consultancies);
>  create an operation plan for the regulatory agency, including the transition from the actual DGT
to INDOTEL, and planning the start-up support by on-site consultant team; and
>  finance a consultant to provide on-sight technical assistance during the first 18 months of
INDOTEL's operations.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Procure and acquire equipment and other items necessary for INDOTEL to perform its new functions:
P assistance to the PMU/INDOTEL in developing the technical specifications for tender
documentation for the spectrum monitoring equipment, also assist in the technical evaluation of
bids;
>  radio spectrum monitoring equipment;
> computer and information systems; and
>  office equipment/furniture, etc.
Recruit and train key management staff and technical personnel:
> (see proposed organizational chart below)
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR INDOTEIL
Managing Committee
Executive
Director
!  IDT   1
i Rural developmenti
Policy/Regulations  Granting of Concessiors   Consumer Protection  Technical and Economic    Spectrum Management   7    Administrative
and Licenses                 Supervision                   Services
Project Component 3: Closure of DGT (US$ 1.65 mln)
As mandated by the new telecommunications law, the Directorate-General of Telecomrnunications in the
Secretariat of Public Works (DGT) will cease to exist. The DGT employs about 730 staff to operate its
rural telegraph system. The decision has been taken by the Government to discontinue DGT's rural
operations and make most of its employees redundant (some technical staff may be retained by
INDOTEL).
The project would fund their seve:rance payments in accordance with guidelines set out in the Bank
Operational Memorandum of March 5, 1996, as well as with the Dominican Republic national civil
service labor law (Law No. 14-91), which allows up to one year of salary for those having served ten
years or more. Workers who will be retained by INDOTEL will be identified prior to the granting of the
severance packages, and will not be eligible for those payments. The risk of adverse publicity as the
result of the DGT redundancies is considered very small since the severance packages have been fully
agreed to by the affected workers, who are not represented by a union. The financial and economic
analysis takes into account, among other things, the costs of the severance package as well as the
discontinuation of Government transfers to the DGT (see Annex 4). It is expected that the benefits of
eliminating the inefficient and obsolete DGT will far exceed the costs, in terms of an improved
telecommunications regulatory framework which. will encourage competition, productivity, and growth.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
Project Component 4: Project Management (US$ 2.78 ml)
This component is intended to support the successful implementation of the project by financing the
Project Management Unit (PMU). Once INDOTEL is established, it will absorb the PMU and its
responsibilities for project management. The PMU/INDOTEL team will be responsible for ensuring that
adequate management arrangements are in place to meet Bank requirements set out in the legal
agreements and to allow for successful project implementation. The Bank will oversee the
PMU/INDOTEL during supervision to ensure that this is the case, and may make continuation of
disbursements under the project contingent on actions to improve project management should those in
place be found to be inadequate. The following project management-related costs would be eligible for
financing:
*  project management services (including the salaries of the project manager and other key
managers, including the project accountant);
.  computer hardware and software (including information systems) for project management as well
as for the broader operations of INDOTEL;
* office equipment, furniture, and car;
* project audit services;
* official project-related travel for PMU/INDOTEL management;
* technical assistance for start-up phase of MNDOTEL;
* fee for procurement agent; and
* training fees for PMU/INDOTEL management.
The PMUIINDOTEL will oversee a public relations campaign to educate the public on the rationale and
the benefits of the reform program, embodied in the new telecommunications law. Specifically, the
campaign will emphasize the development of rural telecommunications; the benefits that increased
competition will yield (e.g., improved variety of services at lower costs); and the role of the new regulator
(e.g., handling consumer complaints). The campaign will encompass: public seminars; publications
(including brochures and other publications on INDOTEL); interviews; and other media activities.
In accordance with the Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), on a quarterly basis the
PMU/TNDOTEL shall produce and submit to the Bank a Project Management Report (PMR), which
allows for the simultaneous monitoring of financial, physical, and procurement activity of the project,
while also serving as an application for disbursement from the loan account.
By February 28 of each year, the PMU/INDOTEL will prepare a progress report of the preceding year's
operations and a detailed management report for the forthcoming year. The Bank and PMU/Indotel will
discuss this report by March 31 of each year. In addition, the Bank will undertake semi-annual
supervision missions. The PMU/INDOTEL will conduct a mid-term review in February 2002 to evaluate
progress of implementation against planned objectives. The PMU/INDOTEL will also prepare a project
Implementation Completion Report not later than six months after the closing date of the loan.



Annex 3
Page I of 1
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Dominican Republic: Telecommunications Regulatory Reform
(US$)
Project Component                                      Local      Foreign       Total
(including contingencies)
1. New Regulatory Framework
Consultancies                                               2,057,000    2,057,000
2. New Regulatory Entity
Consultancies                                                214,500      214,500
Training                                                     462,000      462,000
Spectrum equipment                                          4,735,500    4,735,500
INDOTEL Staff                                  8,250,000                8,250,000
Computer/information systems                                 173,250      173,250
Office rental/recurrent expenses               1,100,000                1,100,000
Equipment (computer, furniture, car)                         231,000      231,000
Sub-Total                                      9,350,000    5,816,250   15,166,250
3. Restructured DGT                                1,650,000                 1.,650,000
4. Project Management
Consultants/Management                                      2,200,000    2,323,000
Economic/financial analysis                                    13,750      13,750
Project audit                                                110,000      110,000
Public Information Campaign                     330,000                   330,000
Unallocated (front-end fee)                                   123,000
Sub-Total                                       330,000    2,446,750    2,776,750
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                11,330,000   10,320,000   21,650,000
Note:
Physical contingencies 10% (applied to all)
Price contingencies 5% (applied to goods only)



Annex 4
Page lof I
Annex 4
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Dominican Republic: Telecommunications Regulatory Reform
Present Value of Flows                  Fiscal Impact
Economic    Financial
Analysis    Analysis            Taxes                 Subsidies
Project Costs:     Greater than  IRR: 25%    Telecom-related tax    Budget transfers to
US$ 21.65 mln   financial                 revenue will decline    finance rural DGT-
return since              initially until revenue  operations would be
there are                from income and value-   eliminated.
only positive            added taxes on telecom
externalities            operations increase.    Eighty percent of the
on other                 (New CDT levy does      new CDT would go to
sectors                  not accrue to           the FDT to subsidize
Government but will     the provision of private
fund INDOTEL and        rural
FDT)                   telecommunications
services. One-time
capital subsidies would
be given competitively
on least-cost basis.
Main Assumptions of Financial Analysis
*  Growth of telecommunications sector:
>  with reforms will be yr. 1-5: 18%; yr. 6-10: 14%; yr. 11-25: 10%
> without the reforms will be yr. 1-5: 15%; yr. 6-15: 12%; yr. 16-25: 8%
*  New regulator's income and expenses
> 20% of CDT levy will be allocated to INDOTEL to cover its expenses
> fees generated from radio spectrum licenses are expected to be used to cover INDOTEL
expenses; any excesses will be passed to FDT
*  Impact on Government revenue:
> existing Government tax of 10% on international and long-distance services is discontinued
) new CDT levy does not accrue to Government but will fund INDOTEL and FDT
>  subsidies to DGT are discontinued
> Government revenue from income and value-added taxes on telecommunications operators and
services will increase as a result of the reform program since growth in the sector will increase
*  Continuity of the present exchange rate throughout the period
* A 25-year period implementation period



Annex 5
Page 1 of I
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Dominican Republic: Telecommunications Regulatory Reform Project
(US$)
Implementation Period
FYOO      FY01       FY02       FY03  I FY04    TOTAL
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs    3,921,866   5,078,318  2,304,916   758,233   236,667 12,300,000
Recurrent Costs     2,805,000   1,870,000  1,870,000  1,870,000   935,000  9,350,000
Total             6,726,866   6,948,318  4,174,916  2,628,233  1,171,667 21,650,000
Financing Sources (%)
IBRD                3,921,866   5,078,318  2,304,916   758,233   236,667 12,300,000
Government          2,805,000   1,870,000  1,870,000  1,870,000   935,000  9,350,000
Total             6,726,866   6,948,318  4,174,916  2,628,233  1,171,667 21,650,000
Main Assumptions:
- Physical contingencies: 10%
- Price contingencies for equipmnent and supplies: 5%



Annex 6
Page I of 6
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Dominican Republic: Telecommunications Regulatory Reform
Procurement
Procurement will be handled by the PMU which will retain a qualified, full-time procurement expert to
assist in the preparation of RFPs, bidding documents, advertisements, and other procurement activities
financed by the project. A summary of procurement arrangements is provided in Table 6A.
Goods
Procurement of goods will follow the Bank Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (dated January 1995, revised January and August 1996, revised September 1997, revised January
1999). For all goods procured under ICB, the World Bank's standard bidding documents and standard
form of contract shall be used. National/international shopping shall be permitted for purchases of goods
under US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000, NCB will be used for purchases above
$50,000 for PMU/INDOTEL office and other equipment/supplies, and computer-related purchases.
Procurement of goods and equipment for contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines. The radio spectrum frequency monitoring equipment shall be procured through
ICB.
Consultant and Training Services
Consultant and training services shall be selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997, revised September 1997,
revised January 1999) and use the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (dated July 1997, revised April
1998), including standard and sample contracts. All consulting assignments of US$200,000 or more will
be advertised in accordance with the consultants' guidelines. All consulting assignments for which a firm
is to be hired and which have a value equal to or greater than US$100,000, shall be procured according to
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS), except for the project audit to be chosen by least-cost
selection because of the standard nature of the assignment. For long-term technical assistance for
INDOTEL, the individual consultants will be hired on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment.
Consultant services for contracts under US$100,000 shall be hired based on Consultants' Qualification
(CQ) and Individual Consultants (IC) and shall be selected in accordance with section 5 of the guidelines.
Review Procedures
As shown in Table 6B, all contracts for goods procured under ICB shall be subject to the Bank's prior
review. The first three (3) contracts procured under national/international shopping shall be subject to the
Bank's prior review. With respect to consulting firms estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, these shall
be subject to prior review of the entire process. Contracts for employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost US$50,000 or more shall require the Bank's prior review of the entire process. Short
list and terms of reference for all consultant contracts as well as individuals, irrespective of dollar amount,
are subject to prior review.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
Disbursement
Disbursement will take place over the four-year period of the project, with an anticipated project closing
date of June 30, 2004. The disbursement schedule is presented below. (The allocation of loan proceeds is
provided in Table 6C.) Disbursements for the first year reflect the refinancing of the Project Preparation
Advance of US$2 million. There is no retroactive financing for this project.
FY00          FY01          FY02           FY03          FYi4
Annual      3.92          5.08          2.30           0.76          0.24
Cumulative     3.92           9.00          11.31         12.06         12.30
In a pre-appraisal mission of a Bank Financial Management Specialist (FMS) an Action Plan for the
establishment of a financial management system was agreed to between the Bank and project
management. According to this plan, a project accountant and an accounting firn as project auditor have
been selected. In addition, a firm will be retained in due course to prepare a financial management system
for cash management, accounting, internal control, and financial reporting to be fully in place prior to
project effectiveness, including the preparation of an operational manual.
The Action Plan. also seeks to incorporate the use of procedures under the Bank's Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI), but would allow for the initial use of traditional disbursement procedures
(which include direct payments, special commitments, Statements of Expenditure (SOE)) until the new
LACI procedures are fully in place. In either instance, a Special Account shall be established and
maintained in US dollars in the central bank, or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.
Using the traditional disbursement procedures, US$700,000 (about four months of eligible expenditures)
would be the authorized allocation for the Special Account. The use of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) would be allowed for the following types of expenditure:
e contracts for goods costing less than US$200,000;
* contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than US$100,000;
* contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than US$50,000: and
* training.
Once a full conversion to the LACI procedures has taken place, the PMU would produce and submit to
the Bank a Project Management Report (PMR) on a quarterly basis, which allows for the simultaneous
monitoring of financial, physical, and procurement activity of the project, while also serving as an
application for disbursement from the loan account to the Special Account. The amount will be based on
the expected eligible expenditures for the subsequent six-month period. Using LACI procedures, the total
amount in the Special Account would not exceed US$2.5 million.
In addition to submission of quarterly PMRs or the use of traditional disbursement procedures, the project
will be required to submit an annual audit report to the Bank, the format of which was discussed with the
borrower. The audit should be performed by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and the
report should be received by the Bank no later than six months after the close of the project's financial
year (December).



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
(in US$)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                                   Nat'l/Int'l
ICB        NCB       Shopping    Other       NBF
1. Goods                           4,735,500     204,450    200,000
- radio spectrum monitoring equip.    (4,735,500)   (204,450)  (200,000)
- office equipment/furniture/car
- computer/information systems
2. Consultants' Services and Training                                 5,387,250   8,250,000
- develop new regulatory framework                               (5,387,250)
- create new regulatory entity
- public information campaign
3. DGT Severence Payments                                             1,650,000
(1,650,000)
4. Project Management
- office rental/recurrent expenses                                            1,100,000
Front-end Fee (no procurement)
Total                            4,735,500    204,450    200,000   7,037,250   9,350,000
(4,735,500)   (204,450)  (200,000) (7,037,250)
Note:
Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the Bank loan
ICB:    International Competitive Bidding
NCB:  National Competitive Bidding
NBF:   Not Bank-financed
Nat'l/Int'l shopping: National and international shopping
Other:  Includes selection of consultants under IBRD guidelines;
DGT severance payments are not subject to procurement



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Table 6A.2: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$)
Consultant Services               Selection Method                           Total Cost
(including
QCBS         IC         CQ         LC         NBF    contingencies)
Firms             2,926,000                  13,750   110,000                 3,049,750
(2,926,000)               (13,750)  (110,000)              (3,049,750)
Individuals                    137,500    2,200,000             8,250,000    10,587,500
(137,500)  (2,200,000)                        (2,337,500)
Total              2,926,000   137,500    2,213,750   110,000    8,250,000    13,637,250
(5,387,250)
Note:
Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the Bank loan
QBCS: Quality and cost-based selection
IC:    Individual consultant
CQ:   Consultants' qualifications
LC:    Least-cost selection
NBF:  Not Bank-financed



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
Expenditure             Contract Value      Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category                (Threshold)          Method             Prior Review
1. Goods                    > $200,000             ICB                  Prior Review
< $200,000             NCB                 Prior Review
< $50,000              Nat'l/intl shopping  Post Review
2. Consultants' Services    > $100,000             QCBS                 Prior Review
and Training              forfirms *
> $50,000 <$100,000    IC                   Prior Review
for individuals*
< $50,000*             CQ, IC              Prior Review
3. DGT Severence Payments                          no procurement required
*Short list and TORs for all consultant contracts as well as all individuals, irrespective
of dollar amount are subject to prior review.
Note:
ICB:   International Competitive Bidding
NCB:  National Competitive Bidding
QCBS: Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
CQ:   Consultants' Qualifications
IC:    Individual Consultants
Nat'l/Int'l Shopping: National and international shopping up to an aggregate amount of $200,000
beyond which NCB procedures apply



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
Table 6C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds a/
Amount
Expenditure Category                              (US$)    Financing Percentage
1.    Goods                                           4,450,000    100% of foreign expenditure,
80% of other local expenditures
2.    Consultants' Services and Training              2,898,000                100%
3.    DGT Severance Compensation                      1,500,000                100%
4.    Refinancing of the Project Preparation Advance  2,000,000
5.    Fee                                               123,000
6.    Unallocated                                     1,329,000
TOTAL                                         123Q00,000
a/ The description of the expenditure category as defined in the Loan Agreement



Annex 7
Page I of I
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Dominican Republic: Telecommunications Regulatory Reform
A. Project Budget                                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$89,800            US$75,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank Mission (identification)              8/09/97               8/09/97
Appraisal mission departure                      6/08/98              11/02/98
Negotiations                                     5/12/99               5/12/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/10/99
Prepared by: Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, Dominican Republic
Preparation assistance: Project Preparation Facility
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Hermann von Gersdorff                Task Manager
Eloy Vidal                           Principal Telecommunications Engineer
Daria Goldstein                      Counsel
Juan Navas-Sabater                   Telecommunications Specialist
Daniel Boyce                         Financial Management Specialist
Michael Fowler                       Disbursement Officer
Vladimir Jadrijevic                  Senior Procurement Specialist
Max Pulgar-Vidal                     Sector Leader
Susan Goldmark                       Sector Leader
Philip Gray                          Peer Reviewer
Marta Priftis                        Program Assistant



Annex 8
Page I of I
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
Dominican Republic: Telecommunications Regulatory Reform
A. Project Implementationi Plan
Detailed project implementation and procurement plan
(L:/regions/-lacldoreppreprationlimpsche2.mpp)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Detailed project costs and disbursement tables
(L:/regions/lac/domrep/preparation/procdis4.xls)
C. Other
Reestructuraci6n y Fortalecimiento del Sector de Telecomunicaciones (Restructuring &
Strengthening of the Telecommunications Sector), by ITU and UNDP; 1993
Estudio de Demanda de los Servicios Telef6nicos (Study on the Demand for Telephone
Services)
By Gallup Repuiblica Dominicana S. A.; November 1996
Consolidaci6n del Marco Regulatorio del Sector de Telecomunicaciones (Consolidation of
the Regulatory Framework for the Telecommunications Sector), by ITU and UNDP; April
1997
Ley General de Telecomunicaciones, Numero 153-98
Asistencia Tecnica para la Reglamnentaci6n de los Aspectos Tarifarios y los Costos de
Servicio del Sector de Telecomunicaciones en la Repuiblica Dominicana; Nov. 1.998
Analyisis Econ6mico y Financiero de la Reforma del Sector de Telecomunicaciones; October
1998
Analysis and Recommendation for Radio Spectrum Management System for the Dominican
Republic; Sept. 1998
Analysis and Recommendation for the Establishment of the New Regulatory Agency:
Instituto Dominicano de Telecomunicaciones (INDOTEL); Oct. 1998
Analysis and Recommendation for the Expansion of Telecommunications Coverage to Rural
Areas; Dec. 1998



Annex 9
Page 1 of I
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
MOP Schedule D
Status of Bank Group Operations in Dominican Republic
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                      disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                      Purpose
IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 24
Active Projects
DO-PE-63201      1999   GOVERNMENT OF THE DOMINIC          EMERGENCY OPERATIONS                     111.11         0.00         0.00             111.11         0.00         0.00
DO-PE-35733      1998   GOVERNMENT                         ENVIRONMENT POLICY                         3.00         0.00         0.00                2.90          .24        0.00
DO-PE-7015       1998                                       PROV.HEALTH SERV.PRJ                     30.00         0.00         0.00              23.69        -4.90         0.00
DO-PE-35722      1997   GOV'T. OF DOM. REP.                NATIONAL HWY. PROJ.                       75.00         0.00         0.00              65.74        25.75         2.75
DO-PE-35494      1996   GOV'T OF DOMINICAN R               BASIC EDUCATION                           37.00         0.00         0.00              34.04        21.34        11.54
DO-PE-7020       1995   GOVERNMENT OF DR                    IRRIG LAND & WATERSH                     28.00         0.00         0.00              25.97        10.44          .51
Total                                                                                               284.11         0.00         0.00             263.45        52.87        14.80
Active Projects        Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    20.66               545.63               566.29
of which has been repaid:                     0.00              341.31               341.31
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   284.11               204.68               488.79
Amount sold                       :                  0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid                :                 0.00                 0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :               263.45                   .36              263.81
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.



Annex 10
Page I of 2
Dominican Republic at a glance                                                                    10/1198
Latn    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Dominican   America   middle.                             - ____ .
Reoublic   & Carib.  income       Development dlamond
1997
PoDutation. mid-vear fmilfions)                        8.1       494     2.285
GNP oer caDita (Atlas method, USSi                   1.670      3.880     1.230                Life expectancy
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                      13.5      1.917    2.818                       T
Averaae annual arowth. 1991-97
Pooulation M%)                                         1.8        17        1.2
Labor force (fh                                       2.7       2.3       1.3      GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1991.97)                               capita                        nmlilmAnt
Povertv (% of oovulation below national Doverrv line)   21
Urban oooulation (% of total DoDulation)                63        74        42
Life exDectandv at birth (vears)                        71        70        89
Infant mortalitv roar 1.000 live births)                38        32        36
Child ma3nutrition (% of children under 5)               6         .         .               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of ooorulation)                 71        73        84
lilliteracv (%of DoDulation ace 15+)                     18       13        19
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of schoo/-aae Dooolation)  103       111        11            Dominican Republic
Male                                                 103        ..       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               104        ..       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENOS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios,
GDP 1USS billions)                            4.0      6.1       13.2     14.7
Gross domestic investmerntGDP                22.5    21.1       27.5      28.8                     Trad
Exoorts of ocods and services/GOP            20.9     23.0      29.1      30.4                         e
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                   15.2     17.3       19.0     20.8
Gross national savinos/GDP                   18.3     17.8      25.7      27.3
Current account balanice/GDP                 -3.3      -3.4      -1.8      -1.5     Dometic\
Interest DavmentslGDP                         0.9      3.0        1.2       1.2                m        e s   Investment
1Totat debUGDP                               20.6     60.2       32.7      28.4     Savings
1Total debt service/exoorts                  11.2     24.7       11.2
FPresent value of debtlGDP                      -               29.3
P resent value of debtVexworts                 ..       ..      968 
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(averace annual orowth)
GDP                                  3.3      3.4      7.3        8.2       5.2              Oominicen Republic
GNP Der caoita                       0.3      1.7      5.7        3.6       3.6        -         Lower-middle-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services        9.2      7.6     13.3        8.6       5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          30
Aoriculture                                  19.0     17.4       12.9      13.0.90
industrv                                     31.3     23.7      31.6      32.4    10
Manufacturino                              20.6      12.7      17.0      17.0      0
Services                                     49.6     59.0       55.4      54.5    .10     92   93   94  9o  59    97
Frivate consumotion                          80.9    72.4       74.8      67.3    -2c
Generaloovemmentconsumotion                   3.8     10.2        6.2      11.9              _     GDI           GDP
IonDorts of ooods and services               28.2     26.7       37.6     38.1
(averaae annual romwthl                   1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (56)
Acriculture                                   2.6      1.9        9.5       3.4    301
Industrv                                      2.2      3.6        7.0      10.6    20
Manufacturina                                2.3      3.0       4.1       7.9
Services                                      4.1      3.7        7.0       7.9     s-
Private consumotion                           2.6      4.0        6.8       5.9     0,
General oovemment consumotion                14.3      0.0        3.2      19.1            92   93                96   97
Gross domestic investment                     0.9      2.4        8.5       4.3    10
IrnDorts of aoods and services                7.5      4.8        9.8       7.8                  Exports     0Imports
Gross nabonal oroduct                         2.6      3.7       7.6        5.5
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomolete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Dominican Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
DomesUc prices                               1976    1986       1996      1997     Inflation
(% change)                                                                         so
Consumer prces                                7.8      9.7        5.4      8.3    so
Implicit GDP deflator                         2.9      9.3        5.4      6.8    40
Government finance                                                                 20
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                 D
Current revenue                                 ..      ..      19.9      20.8            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..       ..        6.6      4.5             -     GOP deflator    O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..      -1.0       0.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    897        1,804    1,873    5,0o
Sugar                                         ..    114         142      141      ,
Gold                                          ..    105         46        40
Manufactures                                  ..      58        128      126    32000
Total imports (cif                              .    1,879     4,215     4,260     2,00
Food                                          ..45  373  396    1                                J M
Fuel and energy                                      507       863       921  1000
Capital goods                                 ..    303        815       853    .o
ExDort once index (1995=1001                    .       69        96        94    j           92  93  94  95  go  97
Imoort orice index (995'100)                   ..       54       106        99                  Exports     U imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    128          91        94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                               1976    1986       1996      1997     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 844    1,499     3,895     4,050     2 T
Imports of goods and services                 990    2,059     4,218    4,427
Resource balance                             -146    -560       -323      -377 
Net income                                   -109    -245    -1,063    -1,193      2-
Net current transfers                         126      596     1,147     1,345
Current account balance                      -129    -209       -239      -225 1S
Financing items (net)                         107      227       278       331
Changes in net reserves                        23      -18       -39      -106     -i
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS millions)         ..    359         375       475
Conversion rate (DEC. locaYUSS)               1.0      2.9       13.8     14.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ mlillons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          814    3,687      4,310    4,171
IBRD                                         20      180       244      209                        A: 209 B: 16
IDA                                          11       21        17        16               G:615
_|C: 30
Total debt service                            108      374       445
IBRO                                          4       33        56        44                                    0:920
IDA0                                                   1         1         1
F:02333
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              12       21        55
Official creditors                           54      102       -20
Prvate creditors                            61        -8       -28
Foreign direct investment                    60       50       358      405
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         ..                      E: 1,759
World Bank program
Commitments                                  10        0        37        75     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 6       13        18        13     8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          2       18        38        29     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                      4       -6       -19       -16
Interest payments                             2       15        19        16
Net transfers                                 2      -21       -39       -32
Development Economics                                                                                                10/1/98



IBRD 19599R
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
-20,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-Internajtional bodnodries
LPeron                                /Provtr,ne boundaries
Monte Cristi'                                                                                        Nofiotrto  capital
Puerto  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~0            Frovinp~e capitfpIs
Peptilo   RONTE       I/Sr.                                                                        -Mon toads 
Soleedo                         ~~~~~PUERTO   PLATA                                             rciad
I VIA VGACtu                                         T             
SAN  JUAN   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s. u
D bon  7L  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aloroi  ~VSRITA                                    I~ 
L                     jambo~~~~~PrAl V/I\RSTBL     DADA   A                                                         l A/'  /
rIAGO  LI  Santiag ~  ~      ~     ~      ~    ~     DMIGO-~                                           olomn          eYn~
de las Mata          41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d s                                                           on elin
Retiura   r5IsBA    IIN               AUNTCD GO       lA-ESSon ranc'                                                      -
Ie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nfe
0                                                                                                      11010
H A I T I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M '.
N                                  0   10  20   0  40   ~ 0 ~o~n ~o  tIn                   ~                    CL5ALVA      NICdRnGn
70                                                                                          IOOMETSS ELIAST PINA~.
--I                                                                                 70*               ~~                                       COO'TARI~C.0   ).....VENEZU0~I 
MIR                               iches~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR[19



