                            Document of
                        The World Bank




                                                     Report No:ICR0000112




    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-45050)




                               ON A

               LOAN / CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                        US$ 12.3 MILLION

                                TO

                        Dominican Republic

                                FOR

             Telecommunications Regulatory Reform Project




                          March 30, 2007




Policy Div (IBRD Telecom Inf.)
Caribbean Countries CMU
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective March 9, 2007)

      Currency Unit = Dominican Republic Pesos (DOP)
                  DOP 1.00 = US$ 0.0304
                  US$ 1.00 = DOP 32.894

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 ­ December 31


          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARPU         Average revenue per user
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CCI          IT Training Centers
CDT          Telecommunications Development Contribution
CODETEL      Compaρνa Dominicana de Telιfonos
DGT          Directorate-General of Telecommunications
FDT          Telecommunications Development Fund
GODR         Government of the Dominican Republic
IFC          International Finance Corporation
INDOTEL      Dominican Institute of Telecommunications
ISR          Implementation Status Report
ITU          International Telecommunication Union
KPI          Key Performance Indicators
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PMU          Project Management Unit
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SMAS         Spectrum Monitoring and Administration System
UNDP         United Nations Development Program




               Vice President: Pamela Cox
             Country Director: Caroline Anstey
              Sector Manager: Philippe Dongier
          Project Team Leader: Eloy Eduardo Vidal
            ICR Team Leader: Eloy Eduardo Vidal

                                             COUNTRY
                                            Project Name




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 27
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 30
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 32

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Dominican Republic:
Country:                Dominican Rep.        Project Name:          Telecom Regulatory
                                                                     Reform
Project ID:             P052736               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-45050
ICR Date:               03/30/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              GOVERNMENT
Original Total
                        USD 12.3M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 11.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
INDOTEL
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/11/1997    Effectiveness:         12/22/2000        12/22/2000
Appraisal:             11/02/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/06/1999    Mid-term Review:       12/01/2005        12/01/2002
                                     Closing:               06/30/2004        09/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          No                                     None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                           10                  10
Telecommunications                                          90                  90


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Law reform                                                 Primary            Primary
Regulation and competition policy                          Primary            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                          Primary            Primary
Social safety nets                                        Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Caroline D. Anstey             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:           Philippe Dongier               Emmanuel Forestier
Project Team Leader:      Eloy Eduardo Vidal             Eloy Eduardo Vidal
ICR Team Leader:          Eloy Eduardo Vidal
ICR Primary Author:       Arturo Muente Kunigami



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project seeks to strengthen the policy, legal and regulatory environment in the
telecommunications sector and improve rural access to services by encouraging private
investment in those areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                            ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval           Target          Completion or
                                               documents)          Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Decrease in the number of illegal transmitters by 75% by year 4
                                                                                More than 200
                                                                                illegal radio
                                                                                stations, three

Value                                      Decrease of illegal                  illegal TV channels,

quantitative or .                          transmitters by                      31 illegal cable TV

Qualitative)                               75%.                                 channels, 20 illegal
                                                                                call centers and 13
                                                                                illegal mobile re-
                                                                                sellers have been
                                                                                closed.
Date achieved 06/10/1999                   06/10/2004                           09/30/2006
Comments        The spectrum monitoring and administration equipment acquired through the
(incl. %        project allows INDOTEL to locate any illegal transmission throughout the
achievement)    country.

Indicator 2 :   Rural access to telecommunication services increased from 40% to 50% by year
                4

Value                                                                           100% of rural

quantitative or 40%                        50%                                  communities with

Qualitative)                                                                    more than 300
                                                                                inhabitants.
Date achieved 06/10/1999                   06/10/2004                           09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Overall, the project contributed to the design of tenders to install telephone

achievement)    service in 2,250 rural communities.

Indicator 3 :   total number of lines (including mobile) per 100 inhabitants increased from 10 to
                14 by year 4
Value
quantitative or 18.7                       21.4                                 55.7
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/10/1999                   06/10/2004                           06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Internet penetration has also increased through the promotion of PC labs in

achievement)    schools and training centers.

Indicator 4 :   Investment by private companies in the sector increases.
Value                                                                           $2,004 million
quantitative or 98.0 (millions USD)        .                                    between 2000 and
Qualitative)                                                                    2005.
Date achieved 06/10/1999                   06/10/2004                           12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Average annual investment between 1997-1999: $82 million. Average annual

achievement)    investment between 2000-2005: $330 million.




                                                iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :  total number of lines including mobile per 100 inhabitants increased from 10 to
               14 by year 4
Value
(quantitative  11 lines/100 inhabitants   14 lines/100 inhab.

or Qualitative)in 1997                    in year 4

Date achieved 12/31/1997                  12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     11/17/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     05/08/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     11/06/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    0.00
  4     06/11/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    4.12
  5     12/11/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    4.05
  6     02/11/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    4.05
  7     03/07/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    4.05
  8     08/13/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    4.05
  9     02/21/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    6.23
  10    04/07/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    6.23
  11    11/05/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    7.55
  12    04/06/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    7.75
  13    10/06/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    7.75
  14    05/06/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    8.06
  15    11/02/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    8.38
  16    06/15/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    9.60
  17    10/20/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   11.41
  18    11/10/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   11.41



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The telecommunications sector in Dominican Republic enjoyed rapid expansion over the
1990s with an average annual growth in total number of lines of 15%. At appraisal, the
sector accounted for approximately 4.5% of GDP. Despite such impressive overall
performance, total number of lines (fixed and mobile) was only 10 per 100 inhabitants
and expansion of telecommunications in rural communities and residential areas in
general virtually ceased in spite of a high level of unmet demand in 1997. This imbalance
was due to business strategies followed by existing operators, which in turn reflected the
weak incentives set in place.

Telecommunications services had been provided by three licensed private sector
enterprises for the previous three decades: CODETEL, Tricom and All American Cable
and Radio. CODETEL had enjoyed the dominant position providing fixed line, long-
distance and international services until the early 1990s when Tricom and All American
sought to enter the long-distance market more aggressively. CODETEL, however,
imposed high interconnection charges making access by the two firms very difficult.
Mandatory interconnection charges reflecting more realistic costs were decreed by the
Government in 1995, which permitted Tricom and All American to provide competitive
services. CODETEL, however, continued to enjoy market dominance in telephony
services, with a 70-80% share of all sub-markets.

Despite the opening of international services to competition, the provision of local
services had been neglected by new operators since the tariffs were unattractively low
(cross-subsidized by high tariffs on international services). Moreover, the returns on
international services have also fallen due to competition, and operators preferred to
expand into mobile and value-added services which yielded higher returns.

In 1993, the three operators began consultations with the government to draft a new
telecommunications law which would reflect the new competitive environment and be
consistent with standards from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). In
1995, the government responded by drafting new legislation covering interconnection
and tariff rebalancing, as well as the need to further develop telecommunications in rural
areas. With the support from the ITU, representatives from the telecommunications
industry met several times to review the drafts of the different chapters of the Law that
the ITU consultants had prepared in order to reach a consensus. The draft law also
included the ratification of commitments made by the Government in the WTO
Agreement on Basic Telecommunications.

In August of 1997, representatives from the Presidency and the Technical Secretary of
the Presidency specifically requested that the Bank assist in the implementation of the
new regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector. The Government of the
Dominican Republic (GODR) acknowledged and valued the Bank's worldwide



                                              1

experience in the restructuring of the telecommunications sector, especially its
involvement in several Latin American countries such as Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela,
Peru and Bolivia. In those countries, the Bank had assisted the governments in creating
new regulatory frameworks, establishing new regulatory agencies; and privatizing the
public enterprise in charge of telecommunications operations.

The Bank through a PPF assisted the Government to finance consultants to review the
Draft Law that was prepared by the ITU and assist Government in explaining the Draft
Law to Congress Committees in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies and clarify
their questions. After 6 months of review and debate, Congress approved the Telecom
Law in April of 1998.

The new legislation was approved relatively easily because it reflected a consensus
among local stakeholders, including broadcasters, who were brought into the regime. Key
elements of the new regime were: (i) open entry; (ii) mandatory interconnection; (iii)
price regulation limited to those services provided by dominant operators; (iv)
establishment of an autonomous regulatory institution financed by a portion of a 2% levy
assessed on end-user telecommunication services and net international settlements ­ the
Telecommunications Development Contribution (CDT in Spanish); and (v) universal
service provided by the private sector but assisted by the Telecommunications
Development Fund (FDT in Spanish).

The provision of services in rural areas had been the responsibility of the Directorate-
General of Telecommunications (DGT) in the Secretariat of Public Works. The DGT
employed around 730 staff to operate its telegraph system and charged nominal fees. The
system was almost completely financed by public funds. Moreover, advances in
technology were providing alternative means to improve communications in rural areas
while reducing (or eliminating) the burden on public expenditures. In light of these
factors, the new law dismantled the DGT.

The DGT was to be replaced by the Dominican Institute of Telecommunications
(INDOTEL in Spanish), the new regulatory entity. INDOTEL would not operate any
network. It would be responsible for sector regulation, planning and policy. This would
include the policy to extend coverage to rural areas that private sector providers had not
reached.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project seeks to strengthen the policy, legal and regulatory environment in the
telecommunications sector and improve rural access to services by encouraging private
investment in those areas.

Key indicators of success in achieving the project development objectives are:
    · Decrease in the number of illegal transmitters by 75% by year four;




                                             2

    · Rural access to telecommunications services increased from 40% to 50% of the
       population by year four; and
    · Total number of lines (including mobile) per 100 inhabitants increased from 10 to
       14 by year four.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Not Applicable


1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The project would benefit all telecommunications users in the Dominican Republic by
increasing the availability and quality of telephone services. The introduction of more
competition in the sector and the stronger role of the regulatory agency would serve to
control the cost of services and also have a favorable impact on service quality and
variety. Residents of rural areas, in particular, would benefit by obtaining access to
telephone services, often for the first time, through the FDT.

Businesses, many of which depend upon telecommunications services to be competitive,
would benefit especially from lower costs for international communications and from a
greater variety of value-added services. Moreover, foreign investors would find the
country more attractive if it has a modern telecommunications sector.

Finally, the government also had much to gain from the modernization of the regulatory
framework. Government expenditures would be reduced with the closure of the DGT. On
the other side, the new regulatory entity would eventually be self-financed via the CDT.
In addition, greater competition among telecommunications operators would lead to
improved services and thereby stimulate economic growth, resulting in greater revenues
to the Government from licenses and tax receipts.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted on four (4) components, briefly described below:

    Component 1. Create new telecommunications regulatory framework ($2.06 million)
    The objective of this component was to create the supporting regulations, draft the
    necessary legal amendments, and define the technical plans and methodologies to
    carry out the telecommunications reform as initiated by the 1998
    Telecommunications Law (Law 153-98)
            · Develop a policy and draft regulations to promote competition in the
                telecommunications sector.
            · Define and design regulations to grant concessions and licenses for
                telecommunication services.
            · Analyze current costs and propose interconnection rates and tariffs.




                                               3

            · Design and administer the Telecommunications Development Fund (FDT)
               to provide financial incentives to expand telecommunication services to
               rural areas, as provided for under the new Law.
            · Develop the fundamental technical plans and basic technical norms which
               would provide the basis for an efficient national telephone system,
               compatible with international standards.
            · Draft technical regulations.
            · Develop a plan for the national allocation of spectrum frequencies

    Component 2. Create new autonomous telecommunications regulatory entity ($15.17
    million)
    The objective of this component was to provide support for technical assistance, the
    recruitment and training of management and staff, and the procurement of equipment
    and other office items necessary to make INDOTEL operational
            · Establish operational procedures for INDOTEL.
            · Design training plan based on skill assessments.
            · Recruit and train key management staff and technical personnel.
            · Create operation plan for INDOTEL, including the transition from the
               DGT.
            · Assist the project management unit (PMU) and INDOTEL in developing
               the technical specifications for tender documentation.
            · Acquire radio spectrum monitoring equipment.
            · Acquire office equipment, furniture, computer and information systems,
               etc.

    Component 3. Closure of the DGT ($1.65 million)
    As mandated by the Law, the DGT was to disappear. The project would fund the
    severance payment of all redundant employees (some technical staff was retained by
    INDOTEL), in accordance with Bank guidelines and the Dominican Republic
    national civil labor law.

    Component 4. Project Management ($2.78 million)
    This component was intended to support the successful implementation of the project
    by financing the PMU. Once INDOTEL was established, it would absorb the PMU
    and its responsibilities for project management. The PMU/INDOTEL team would be
    responsible for ensuring that adequate management arrangements were in place to
    meet Bank requirements. Additionally, the PMU/INDOTEL would oversee a public
    relations campaign to educate the public on the rationale and benefits of the reform
    program.

1.6 Revised Components

None of the components was revised. Nevertheless, a reallocation of funding among
categories was approved by the Bank upon request from the Government (see 1.7 below).

1.7 Other significant changes



                                             4

The closure of the DGT took fewer resources than expected, and due to some delays in
the approval of several norms and regulations, the amount to be used in consultancies
was expected to end up below appraisal.

On the other side, the government wanted to expand the radio spectrum monitoring
equipment to have a better coverage of the country. Additionally, the FDT requested
additional funds from the project to help finance equipment for its "Centers for IT
Training" (CCIs in Spanish), explained in detail in Section 3.2 below.

Due to these circumstances, the GODR requested a reallocation of expenditure amounts.
The amounts described in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement were then modified as
follows:

                               Original Amount      Reclassified Funds    Revised Allocation
          Category             Allocated (US$)

Goods                            4,450,000            3,010,000.00           7,460.000.00

Consultant's Services            2,898,000             -969,240.12           1,928,759.88
and training
DGT Severance Compensation       1,500,000             -710,102.88           789,897.12

Refunding of Project             2,000,000              -1,657.00            1,998,343.00
Preparation Advance
Fee                                123,000                0.00                 123,000

Unallocated                      1,329,000            -1,329,000.00               -

TOTAL                           12,300,000                0.00               12,300,000


It must be also noted that, even though the project was approved by the Board on July
1999, it was effective on December 2000 due to the approval process in the Dominican
Republic Congress (the project had to be approved at both the Senators Chamber and the
Deputies Chamber). Due to this initial delay and to the reallocation of categories, the
closing date for the project was extended three times until September 30, 2006.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The PDO defined were clear, realistic and much in line with the 1999 CAS, which
stressed the need to:

    · Ease infrastructure constraints to private sector development;
    · Increase the coverage of basic infrastructure services; and
    · Involve the private sector in the provision of these services.




                                             5

The project supported these goals by improving the efficiency of infrastructure service
provision and expanding service coverage to rural areas.

Several lessons learned in other projects in the telecommunications sector were reflected
in project design. These are:

    · A clear, predictable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to attracting
       investment in the sector.
    · Government should create an independent, technical, and self-financed regulatory
       entity to grant new licenses, solve disputes among operators, and protect the
       public interest.
    · Government should not participate as a provider of telecommunications services,
       which are more efficiently run by private companies.
    · Telecommunications investments in rural areas can yield, on average, an adequate
       and even high economic as well as financial rate of return. Servicing the remotest
       areas, however, represents higher costs per line and greater risk, and therefore
       may require a subsidy.
    · Universal access funds have been successfully used in both industrialized and
       developing countries.
    · Whether a universal access fund is successful or not depends in large measure on
       whether it is complemented by sector liberalization and reform. The most
       significant profitability factors for rural investments relate more to policy
       variables (especially interconnection and tariffs) than to risk and financial
       variables. It is more important to note, however, that reform efforts are likely to
       have more impact if they are backed with such financial incentives, albeit
       relatively small overall.
    · Newly-created regulatory entities are frequently overwhelmed but have little
       expertise to draw upon. Providing on-site consultant support and hand-holding
       during the initial start-up phase has been shown to be very useful.
    · A project that is tightly focused and simple to administer (e.g., focusing just on
       telecommunications rather than including other sectors) is less likely to get
       bogged down by administrative or other procedural delays. In the Dominican
       Republic, this is particularly important since the Bank and the country have
       limited recent experience in implementing private sector development projects,
       which increases the risk of such process-related delays. The learning on both sides
       through the processing of this simpler project could facilitate later attempts at
       more ambitious operations (including some already initiated).

2.2 Implementation

Factors Outside the control of government agencies

After the project was approved by the Board on July 6, 1999, it took the government
more than a year to get approval from Congress. The project was approved by the
Senators Chamber on February 2000 and sent to the Deputies Chamber on August 2000.
Finally, the project was effective on December 22, 2000 almost one a half year after



                                               6

Board approval. However, the impact of this delay was diminished by the use of a Project
Preparation Facility.

Factors generally subject to government control

Despite going through three different presidential periods, the project received
continuous support from all these Administrations. Government officials always showed
a strong commitment towards the project and its main objectives. All changes in the
counterpart team composition due to government changes did not have any adverse
impact on implementation or on the quality of the outcome.

Nevertheless, the installation of the Spectrum Monitoring and Administration System
(SMAS) took longer than expected due to a lack of coordination between INDOTEL and
the Ministry of Transport. In order to install one of the Monitoring Stations, an access
road needed to be improved; and it took more than a year to improve this road to allow
the crews to install the Station.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

The PPF was approved in 1997 and was used to help the Government start the
modernization process of the telecommunications industry. During this period, a small
team of professionals was formed to coordinate with government officials and Congress
the review and approval of the Telecommunications Law (Law 153-98) which was
initially drafted by ITU consultants. Additionally, the team drafted the first set the
Telecommunication Regulations to implement the Law.

INDOTEL was created by the Telecommunications Law and hence was closely linked to
the project since its conception stages. After the project became effective, INDOTEL
took over from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP)1 all fiduciary duties
and included the Bank's PMU as an operational unit within the organization. Support
from INDOTEL authorities has remained strong until the end of the project in September
2006.

INDOTEL's Board includes a representative from the operators and a representative from
the final users. This composition guarantees open and transparent processes, but also
increases the risk of the Board taking longer periods to agree on any decision. Actually,
the internal process to approve new regulations and bylaws has proven to be somewhat
slow. The average period to approve a piece of regulation within the agency has been of
around one year. This delayed the completion of the whole regulatory framework: on top
of necessary public audiences and legal periods to receive comments from third parties,
INDOTEL's Board took a long time to debate and finally publish any piece of regulation.



1The Government hired the UNDP in 1997 to manage the fiduciary responsibilities of the
PPF.



                                              7

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Adequate Key Performance Indicators (KPI) were defined for each output. They were
regularly collected to monitor progress towards the PDO by the PMU, and presented and
analyzed by the Bank during supervision missions. All supervision aide-memoirs include
an attachment with an update of all KPIs.

The following KPI were defined at appraisal:

PDO / Component                              Key Performance Indicator
Strengthen the policy and regulatory         · Decrease in the number of illegal
environment in the telecommunications            transmitters by 75% by year 4
sector and improve rural access to services  · Rural access to telecommunications
by encouraging private investment in those       services increased from 40% to 50% by
areas.                                           year 4
                                             · Total number of lines (including
                                                 mobile) per 100 inhabitants increased
                                                 from 10 to 14 by year 4
1. New telecommunications regulatory         · Tariffs rebalanced
framework                                    · Regulations / guidelines for
                                                 interconnection agreements
                                             · Procedures for issuing licenses
                                             · Regulations for radio frequency use and
                                                 management
                                             · Procedures for resolution of disputes
                                             · Regulations for each type of existing
                                                 service and guidelines for new services
                                             · FDT established and operational
2. New autonomous telecommunications         · INDOTEL executive management
regulatory entity                                appointed
                                             · Procedures, organizational functions
                                                 and roles defined
                                             · Key staff appointed
                                             · Technical staff recruited and trained
                                             · Regulator financially self-sufficient
                                                 within 4 years
2. Closure of the DGT                        · DGT's regulatory functions (and some
                                                 qualified staff) transferred to the new
                                                 regulatory entity
                                             · DGT's commercial operations
                                                 terminated


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance




                                           8

During Project preparation, UNDP was in charge of all procurement and financial
management activities. Soon after the project became effective, the government decided
to appoint personnel of their own to take care of this. Two members of the PMU were
trained by Bank's staff in procurement and financial management activities and these
functions were transferred to them. These resources remained as part of the team until
project completion, guaranteeing an adequate compliance to all Bank requirements. No
issues regarding procurement or financial management were raised throughout the project.
On this note, it must be mentioned that all annual audit reports were satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The PMU will be eliminated from INDOTEL's organization and all its members will be
re-allocated in other Departments of the agency. No follow-up operation has been
requested by the GODR.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project outcomes are aligned with the current Country Assistance Strategy (2005
CAS). The overarching focus of the 2005 CAS is to improve governance and strengthen
institutions. One of the main outcomes of the project is the creation of a strong and
independent regulatory agency that is well respected by all agents in the sector (operators,
government and general public). INDOTEL is often acknowledged as an exemplary
institution in the government.

Additionally, the 2005 CAS outlines two main pillars that will help focus its main
activities:

    1. Stabilize the economy, improve competitiveness, and restore economic growth;
        and
    2. Achieve a greater social equity through human development and increased
        coverage and quality of basic public services.

The enhancement of the regulatory environment due to the presence of INDOTEL has
definitely increased private investment in the country. Nowadays, relying on good
telecommunications infrastructure at affordable prices is key in improving the
competitiveness of any industry. Finally, with the creation of the FDT, projects aimed at
extending basic telephony to rural areas were awarded under public-private partnerships.
The IT Training Centers initiative, partially financed by the project, helped to decrease
the digital divide within the country.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project fully achieved its development objectives, meeting and even exceeding all
KPIs defined for the PDO. Most of the new regulatory framework is in place, and the
regulatory entity was successfully established, replacing the DGT. The FDT has


                                              9

developed several projects since its creation, focusing on rural and underserved low
income communities nationwide.

The following graph shows the trend in investment in the telecommunications sector:


                                    Figure 1. Dominican Republic: Telecommunications Investments
                                                                     1997-2005
                         600


                         500                      Project is declared
                                                  effective by

  sn                     400                      Congress

    ioill                       Telecommunications
         m               300
          $SU                   Law 193-98 is
                                passed in Congress
                         200


                         100


                           0
                                1997       1998       1999         2000     2001      2002        2003     2004      2005

 Source: INDOTEL



As can be seen in the graph, investment in the telecommunications sector exceeded $2
billion between 2000 and 2005. Additionally, the number of telephones (both fixed and
mobile) increased dramatically, with penetration reaching 55.7 per 100 inhabitants as of
June 2006. The following graph shows this growth:


                                      Figure 2. Dominican Republic: Fixed and Mobile Subscribers
                                                                     1990 - 2006
                        4,000,000
                                           Fixed
                        3,500,000
                                           Mobile
                                                                                    Centennial and Orange
                        3,000,000                                                   start services in
             srebircsb  2,500,000                                                   Dominican Republic


                        2,000,000

                                                         New Telecommunications
                      Su1,500,000
                                                         Law approved in Congess
                        1,000,000

                         500,000

                                0

                                 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994      1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000    2001 2002 2003 2004 2005




                                                                         10

The role of the Bank in achieving these impressive results has been critical. The Bank
provided financial support and technical assistance throughout the whole project. Overall,
it is estimated that US$2 billion of investment has been introduced in the market.
Consumer surplus in the mobile market has increased at least in US$668 million through
mobile competition, expansion of networks and price reductions.

Each of the three different components has contributed to the overall outcome:

1. Create New Telecommunications Regulatory Framework.

From the start of the project, INDOTEL was very aggressive in drafting the regulatory
framework required in the country. However, all regulations had to go through a fairly
long process which includes internal review by INDOTEL's staff, review and approval
by INDOTEL's Board, publications of those regulations in newspapers, a period to allow
review by stakeholders, public audiences and the reception of comments from any
interested party. Following that, INDOTEL had to reply to all comments and, make the
necessary changes to the Regulations, review and approval by INDOTEL staff, and
finally, all regulations had to be reviewed again are approved by INDOTEL's Board. It
also did not help that not all Board members were industry experts. This slow process,
albeit being consensual, delayed the issuance of many of the regulations.

Nevertheless, due to an early start using the preparation facility, the main pieces of
regulation were issued in a timely manner; and this was the main trigger for new mobile
operators' entry. Increased competition among four operators in the end, as shown in
Figure 2 above, was responsible for rapid sector growth.

Currently, as shown in Annex 2, some remaining regulations are under public
consultation, pending a public audience. The drafts for these regulations have actually
been prepared by INDOTEL's regulatory experts, proving that the entity is already
capable of preparing regulatory framework adjustments without permanent assistance
from the project or the Bank.

Among the first set of regulations issued by INDOTEL was the bylaws for the FDT. The
fund has issued three bi-annual plans (2001-2003, 2003-2005 and 2005-2007), and has
already committed US$29 million of CDT funds.

The FDT held two different tenders which ended up covering all communities with more
than 300 inhabitants throughout the country with public telephones. Other projects
partially financed by the FDT include the IT Training Centers (CCIs) and some cross-
sector projects such as installing video conference facilities in rural hospitals, developing
education portals, supporting virtual libraries, etc. (a more detailed list of projects is
included in Annex 2).

As of August 31, 2006, the FDT had an outstanding balance of US$18.3 million.

2. Create New Autonomous Telecommunications Regulatory Entity



                                             11

INDOTEL was created by Law 153-98. Nevertheless, it was implemented during project
preparation. The starting PMU team became the nucleus of the whole technical staff
within the entity. Since August 2000, INDOTEL has had financial independence with the
creation of the CDT.

The main consultancies carried out through the project include:
· Ethics Code for Employees
· Procurement Guidelines
· Functional Organization and Roles
· Procedures Guidelines

It is important to note that a very important effort to streamline all procedures and
digitalize every document in the institution is being carried out. The project, called
"Document Digitalization and Knowledge Management" has been partially funded by the
project and will help keep a more organized record management and will allow a more
rapid response from the entity to industry requirements.

The acquisition of the Spectrum Management and Monitoring System was also a key
element of the modernization of the sector, even though implementation was not as fast
as possible due to the need to prepare and update a database with information from of all
users' stations. The preparation of this database required INDOTEL to visit many
stations and update legal records of licensees, an effort that took several years. As a result,
almost all illegal stations in the country were promptly closed and an important amount
of spectrum has been recovered and reallocated to productive use: open bids for more
than 30 radio stations have been held.

At first, due to insufficient resources, the System did not cover some small areas with low
population density. Later, with excess resources from Component 3 and as part of the
reallocation of categories, INDOTEL acquired a couple of new Monitoring Stations to
cover 95% of the radio emitters in the territory. The reallocation of funds also allowed
INDOTEL to pay for an extension in the system maintenance program with the supplier
for another year, while INDOTEL technicians became familiar with system maintenance.

This subcomponent was the largest in the project, requiring almost $5.5 million. Despite
its relatively small territory (48,000 km2), illegal interference and congestion hindered the
development of formal broadcasting businesses. Currently, there are 46 local TV
channels; and revenues from spectrum fees have been increasing since the installation of
the SMAS.

INDOTEL created a best-practice system to solve user complaints and disputes, through
the installation of system that included three methods of access: (1) a toll-free number
call center; (2) internet access; and (3) personal attention center, to receive customer
complaints. INDOTEL staff referred each case to the specific telecommunication
operator for re-consideration. Most cases were resolved quickly. Those cases that were
not solved by the first referral were transferred to external experts that mediated in the



                                               12

dispute between parties. Only those cases that were not solved by them went to the
judiciary. This system reduced the number of cases that were litigated to the minimum
and reduced the time to solve disputes dramatically.

Finally, it must be mentioned that technical staff was trained in all relevant matters.
Additionally, members of the Dominican Republic Judiciary System were also trained in
regulation and telecommunications since they had to rule on operator-user and operator-
operator disputes and other sector-specific legal matters.

These initiatives helped create an independent and capable regulatory agency that is well
regarded by the Dominicans. Together with the actual regulations that the entity drafted
and issued, successful implementation of this component created a suitable environment
for investment attraction and sector growth. Actually, the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) supported the entrance of ORANGE in the Dominican mobile market.
The US$75 million operation was a clear sign of confidence and showed that an
institution like IFC considered that the regulatory environment in the telecommunications
sector was appropriate and fair for new entrants.

3. Closure of DGT

Closure of DGT required fewer resources than initially planned. DGT staff was given a
total of US$0.83 million in severance payments. The availability of resources under this
component was one of the main reasons for the reallocation request later on.

Formal closure of DGT was a clear sign of change and modernization of the sector to
external agents. However, as mentioned before, due to legal difficulties, the project failed
to deal with the disposal of DGT's physical assets (mainly consisting of buildings
scattered throughout the whole country), which were inherited by INDOTEL.

3.3 Efficiency

During project implementation, investments in the telecommunications sector added up
to US$2 billion. Comparing it to average investments during the period 1997-1999, this
represents approximately US$1.5 billion more investments in the sector. Most
investments came from new operators and network expansion, which were in turn direct
results of the changes in the regulatory framework.

Consumers have been the main beneficiaries. It is estimated that consumer surplus gains
in the mobile market have been of at least US$668 million: approximately US$235
million from transfers from suppliers and US$433 million from the creation of surplus in
the market.

Even though no specific numbers are available for this project, the installation of public
payphones in rural areas through the FDT has had an impact on the communities that
were served. Using parameters from other Bank projects, it is estimated that
approximately US$5 million are saved every year in these communities by having a
public payphone in town.


                                             13

Annex 3 explains the main assumptions behind these calculations.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall rating for the project is Satisfactory. The PDO was achieved in a timely
manner, all outputs goals were met or surpassed and no major problems or delays were
identified throughout implementation. Investments in the sector added up to US$2.0
billion between 2000 and 2005. Entry of new mobile operators generated benefits to
consumers in excess of $56 million and the implementation of rural projects by the FDT
generated additional benefits of around US$4.8 million every year. However, there were
several delays on effectiveness that ended up extending the project's closing date.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The FDT benefited rural and underserved communities. The expansion of mobile
networks due to aggressive competition from entrants benefited all users, especially
lower income ones in urban and rural areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

When the project started, INDOTEL literally did not exist. Now, INDOTEL has six years
of operation and has consolidated as an independent regulatory agency. It has developed
the required expertise to supervise the industry and be in charge of the regulatory
framework. Even though some minor regulations couldn't be developed within the
project, INDOTEL's regulatory experts are ready and capable of handling them without
external advisory.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The IT Training Centers, funded by the FDT and partially with Bank funds, have proven
to be a healthy and productive alternative to young students in peri-urban and rural areas
after classes. By attending the CCIs at a relatively low cost, they spend their time in a
learning and productive environment.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No beneficiary or stakeholder workshops were held.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

INDOTEL has become an exemplary institution within the GODR. It is well
acknowledged and respected by private operators and by the public in general. A strong



                                             14

regulatory framework that has been established and capacity building efforts have created
a technical and professional team within the regulatory agency.

Investments in the telecommunications sector in the country have boomed since the
project started, adding up to more than $2 billion between the years 2000 and 2005.
These investments are mostly related to long-term projects that involve an increase in
service coverage and quality of service.

Finally, telephony projects financed by the FDT in rural towns under public-private
partnerships have proven to be sustainable and are operated by private operators.
Additionally, the IT Training Centers installed in private schools are also sustainable and
have been welcomed by the communities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The rating is satisfactory. The Bank helped pass the law during preparation; and was key
in designing and setting up INDOTEL as an autonomous regulatory agency. Additionally,
the PMU became part of the regulatory agency, guaranteeing coordination and better
supervision of the implementation. The PDO and the outputs defined at appraisal were
well defined.

However, Component 3 was overestimated and there was no awareness of the
complicated legal procedures to dispose of DGT's physical assets. This could have been
avoided if a broader analysis of DGT had been executed at appraisal.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during supervision is rated as satisfactory. The Bank advised
the government, INDOTEL and the PMU when necessary on procurement and
implementation of the different components. During the adoption of procurement and
financial management duties from UNDP in 2000, the Bank trained two experts that
eventually remained in the PMU until the project closed. It is also worth mentioning that
the reallocation of amounts among categories was closely coordinated between the Bank
and INDOTEL, resulting in a straight-forward process with high impact by using most of
the amount in the FDT and in completing the coverage of the Spectrum Management and
Monitoring System.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                             15

The overall Bank Performance is rated satisfactory. Throughout the project,
collaboration between the Bank and the implementing agency has been valuable and
critical for the program's success.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The rating is satisfactory. Throughout the preparation and implementation, the GODR
has proved to be committed and supported the project. The implementation of all
components was fully supported by the government and could not have been done
without its support. Other ministries and government officials collaborated with the Bank,
the PMU and INDOTEL, despite delays and some lack of coordination in one case such
as the repair of a road for the installation of a Monitoring Station of the SMAS and a
couple of projects from the FDT.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
INDOTEL                            INDOTEL's performance is rated as satisfactory. The
                                   project helped create an independent and strong
                                   regulatory entity, with technical staff that gave
                                   confidence to all agents. The PMU was part of
                                   INDOTEL and the agency implemented satisfactory
                                   components 1 and 2. All INDOTEL Directors appointed
                                   throughout implementation strongly supported the
                                   project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance of the GODR is rated as satisfactory. Government officials
showed commitment and supported the project during preparation and implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be drawn from the implementation of this project:
· Building up a successful institution is time-consuming and challenging and
    requires close Bank supervision, especially during changes of Government
    administration. INDOTEL was created while preparing the project and it required a
    lot of time and effort since the project aimed at creating both the regulatory entity and
    the regulatory framework. Changes of Government administration can negatively
    affect young institutions that are still being shaped. However, in this case the
    incoming authorities were very receptive and Bank assistance proved to be critical to
    maintain continuity. As mentioned before, by the end of the project most of the
    regulatory framework had been already issued, including all basic regulations.
    INDOTEL is not a perfect organization, but is acknowledged as being among the
    most responsive and efficient in the country.


                                               16

· Closing an institution implies a thorough review of all its assets. During
  preparation, the team failed to recognize the complicated legal procedures to dispose
  of DGT's physical assets throughout the country. Former offices from postal and
  telephone operations were inherited by INDOTEL, who still remains owning many of
  them. Many CCIs were actually built in these premises, but their final use should
  have been depicted at appraisal.
· Internet community centers require a specific use. Unlike many failures regarding
  telecenters deployments in other countries, the CCIs program has been a great success
  in the Dominican Republic. Two main reasons for their success are the fact that they
  were created with a specific purpose: education; and that the administrators are real
  and experienced NGOs that come from and are extremely committed with the actual
  communities being served.
· Approval processes within an institution must be designed bearing in mind that
  there is a tradeoff between time and exhaustiveness. Approval processes at
  INDOTEL are too long. Holding public audiences and allowing third parties submit
  their comments is commendable and transparent. However, when the institution can
  not handle the pipeline created by this process, then something needs to be done.
  INDOTEL should tighten the timeline, including the period its Board needs to
  approve (or reject) the actual piece of regulation.
· A good SMAS requires more than just the equipment. Three different departments
  in INDOTEL used the old database (registry books inherited from the DGT):
  supervision, licensing, and broadcasting. However, even after installing the
  equipment, these three departments failed to reconcile their registries. It took them
  around two years to finally transfer all the records to the new system, to inspect all
  the stations in the country and clean the data base. It is important to incorporate
  database migration and maintenance during appraisal to guarantee an efficient use of
  the equipment and the system.
· Mobile networks are very active and expand in a timely manner. Many sites
  where the FDT placed public payphones (identified as towns without
  telecommunications services during appraisal) were already under the mobile
  footprint by the time the project was implemented. However, it must be said that all
  communities, especially in extremely poor areas, welcomed the payphones, because
  many people could not afford to buy cell phones.
· Cross-sector projects require commitment and coordination from all involved
  parties. Many cross-support projects designed by the FDT and funded by the CDT
  did not work very well due to lack of commitment from other government entities.
  For example, the Ministry of Education did not cooperate with INDOTEL to
  complete all the FDT initiatives that INDOTEL had agreed with them. It is
  recommended that in these cases, and especially if the supporting agency lacks the
  required capacity, collaboration from private parties and/or NGOs be sought.
· It is better to have an independent regulator. Currently, INDOTEL is both
 Regulator and Ministry. It is best practice that the regulatory entity be independent
  and separated from the entity taking policy decisions. However, it must be said that,
  in the case of Dominican Republic, this fact did not became an obstacle that hindered
  the development of the project.




                                            17

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

CREATE NEW
TELECOMMUNICATIONS                        1.87                1.20           64.17
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
CREATE NEW
AUTONOMOUS
TELECOMMUNICATIONS                       13.57              20.46            150.77

REGULATORY ENTITY
CLOSURE OF DGT                            1.50                0.79           52.66
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                        0.41                0.89           36.93


            Total Baseline Cost          17.35               23.34           134.52

Physical Contingencies                    1.93

Price Contingencies                       0.24
             Total Project Costs         19.52               23.34           119.57
Project Preparation Fund                  2.00                2.00            100
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.12                0.12            100
      Total Financing Required           21.65               25.46           117.60




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   12.30        11.91        96.83




                                            19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                    Summary                                 Key Performance Indicators
Goals from the Country Assistance Strategy for
Dominican Republic (CAS)

1) Remove constraints for private sector          1) Private investment in the sector (US$ million)
development
                                                  1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
                                                  32.8 117.1 98.0 272.2 500.0 434.7 294.6 243.9 259.0

                                                  Information for 2006 is not available.

2) Increase coverage from basic services and      2) Coverage in rural areas
involve private sector in provision of services
                                                  a) Public payphones

                                                  1st phase:
                                                  Public payphones in 500 communities (>300 inhab.)
                                                  Investment from INDOTEL: $3.4 million
                                                  Supplied by CODETEL. Currently operating.
                                                  As part of an agreement with INDOTEL, Verizon
                                                  (former CODETEL) returned part of the subsidy in
                                                  exchange for operating the public payphones under
                                                  different conditions and for a shorter time.
                                                  2nd phase:
                                                  Public payphones in 1,750 communities (>300
                                                  inhab.)
                                                  Investment from INDOTEL: $6.4 million
                                                  Awarded to Bec Telecom in August 2004. Currently
                                                  operating. Disbursements:
                                                  15% (US$ 965,476.80) ­ Sep. 2004
                                                  45% (US$ 2'896,430.40) ­ Nov. 2005
                                                  3% (US$ 193,095.36) ­ Jun. 2006
                                                  3% (US$ 193,095.36) ­ Nov. 2006

                                                  b) Radio communications network with 255 rural
                                                  hospitals.
                                                  Investment from INDOTEL: $0.4 million.
                                                  Provided by TRICOM. Completed.

                                                  c) Community Telecenters
                                                  15 units in low income urban zones.
                                                  Estimated investment: $1.25 million.
                                                  Awarded to ENDELCA. 100% completed.
                                                  Pending: six out of 12 quarterly payments (subsidy
                                                  plus maintenance).

                                                  d) Tele medicine (videoconference and Internet)
                                                  Installation of videoconference facilities in five
                                                  hospitals. Installation of Internet access in 27
                                                  hospitals.
                                                  Investment from INDOTEL: 15.8 DOP million.



                                                 20

 Provided by CODETEL. 100% executed.

 e) Tele education

 e.1) Wan Network: phase 1
 120 public schools in low income urban areas have
 been given Internet access. Investment from
 INDOTEL       23.0   DOP    million.  Provided    by
 CODETEL. 100% executed.

 e.2) Wan Network: phase 2. Investment from
 INDOTEL       43.3   DOP    million.  Provided    by
 CODETEL (Verizon). 90% executed.

 f) Platform for a Dominican Education Portal, totally
 implemented, at a cost of 12.8 DOP million.

 g) Development of applications for the Dominican
 Education Portal, at a cost of 19.0 DOP million.
 100% implemented.

 h) Internet for public municipal libraries and
 "Culture Houses", at a cost of 15 DOP million,
 100% implemented.

 i) Digital libraries network in schools.    Winning
 bidder: CECOMSA. Cost 15 DOP million, 100%
 implemented.

 j) Digital rooms in Universities. 13 rooms in
 Universities nationwide. Cost: 17 DOP million.
 Executed 76%.

 k) Project: Integrated System for external trade one-
 stop window. (SIVUCEX).        100% implemented.
 Investment from INDOTEL: 16 DOP million.

 l) IT Training Centers (CCI), cost: 132 DOP million.
 80 training centers nationwide.

       Phase I (12 Centers)
       Winning company: ISISA
       Awarded amount: 10,499,000 DOP
       Status: Phase concluded

       Phase II (24 Centers)
       Winning company: ISISA
       Awarded amount: 18,820,195.36 DOP
       Status: Phase concluded

       Phase III (26 Centers)
       Winning company: CECOMSA
       Awarded amount: US$545,091.19
       Status: Phase under execution

       Phase IV



21

                                                       Status: Bidding process is being prepared.

                                                       Phase V
                                                       Status: Bidding process is being prepared.

                                                 m) Community Technology Centers (CTC)
                                                 Centers with      all  telecommunications services
                                                 installed in low income urban areas.

                                                       Phase I (8 Centers)
                                                       Winning company: ADVANTICS
                                                       Awarded amount: 14,676,812.64 DOP
                                                       Status: Concluded.

                                                       Phase II (10 Centers)
                                                       Winning company: ADVANTICS
                                                       Awarded amount: 16,386,555.48 DOP
                                                       Status: Under implementation

                                                       Phase III (20 Centers)
                                                       Winning      company:      UNIVERSAL       DE
                                                       CΣMPUTOS
                                                       Awarded amount: 30,690,000 DOP
                                                       Status: Under implementation

                                                 n) ICT support in the Dominican Postal Institute ­
                                                 Project: Digit@l mail.
                                                 This Project consists in the installation of a
                                                 computer in provincial postal offices of the country,
                                                 to use the new electronic services offered through
                                                 the project Digital mail. The winning company was
                                                 ADVANTICS for US$125,291.20 and the project
                                                 has been completed.

                                                 o) Project to support citizen security
                                                 This Project provided the Dominican National
                                                 Police with the required infrastructure to expand
                                                 their investigation systems, installed in their
                                                 headquarters. It also implemented a private WAN
                                                 network for the police. The Project was awarded to
                                                 Solar Satellite CxA for US$1,246,361; and the
                                                 project has been concluded.


Project Development Objective                    1) Reduce number of illegal transmissions in 75%
Strengthen the policy, legal and regulatory      by 2004
environment in the telecommunications sector and
improve rural access to services by encouraging  a) More than 200 illegal radio stations have been
private investment in those areas.               closed (includes stations closed more than once), 3
                                                 TV channels, 31 Cable TV channels, 20 call and
                                                 internet centers, 13 mobile phone dealers;
                                                 b) A Spectrum Monitoring and Administration
                                                 System     (SMAS)     was     acquired  through   an
                                                 International Public Bidding, which is currently
                                                 operating;
                                                 c) There has been a process of migration to make



                                                22

                                              spectrum usage more efficient and open bids for
                                              more than 30 radio stations have been held.
                                              d) Even though there is no way to prove if the 75%
                                              target has been accomplished, the number of
                                              closures and the SMAS allow INDOTEL pinpoint
                                              the location of any illegal broadcasting nationwide,
                                              suggesting that an even higher number (closer to
                                              100%) has been achieved.

                                              2) Rural access to telecommunications services
                                              increased from 40% to 50% by year 4

                                              Before the project, there were 650 public payphones,
                                              out of which only 580 worked. With the FDT, phase
                                              1 awarded a project to install 500 public payphones
                                              in 500 rural and low income sites using satellite
                                              technology. The second phase was awarded in 2004
                                              and included 1,750 communities with similar
                                              characteristics to those in phase 1.

                                              In 2002, rural access to telecommunications services
                                              reached 41% of communities with more than 300
                                              inhabitants. By 2005 it was 100%. Thus, after phase
                                              two, 100% of rural communities with more than 300
                                              inhabitants had coverage.

                                              Technologies used to provide the service has been
                                              mobile and point-multipoint (WLL).

                                              3) Total number of lines (including mobile) per 100
                                              inhabitants increased from 10 to 14 by year 4.

                                              These targets have been exceeded considerably.
                                              There are almost five million lines out of which 89%
                                              are digital mobile lines. Internet accounts increase at
                                              10.2% per year, reaching 148,289 accounts (64%
                                              residential, 36% business). Additionally, there are
                                              more than 400 computer labs in public schools.

                                              Fixed and mobile teledensity

                                              1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
                                              11.0 12.6 15.9 20.0 27.5 30.5 34.9 39.5 50.7

                                              2006*
                                              55.7

                                              *As of June 2006.

Project Results                               1) Tariffs rebalanced: rebalancing process ended in
                                              December 2000.
1) New Telecommunications Regulatory FrameworkCurrent per minute local rate = US$ 0.09 (approx.)

                                              1.1) Tariffs and Costs regulations: approved by
                                              INDOTEL on June 1st, 2006.



                                             23

 2)   Interconnection    regulation:   approved   by
 INDOTEL on June 7, 2002. Effective as of June 20,
 2002.

 3) Procedures for issuing licenses: Approved
 through resolution 007-2002, published on April 26,
 2002.

 4) Regulations for radio frequency use and
 management:
  Approved by INDOTEL
  National Plan for Allocation of Frequencies.
  Issued by the Executive on July 5, 2002 with
  Presidential Decree No. 518-02.
  Spectrum Usage, issued by the Executive on
  August 11, 2004, with Presidential Decree No.
  814-04.
  Routing Plan
  Numbering Plan
  Signaling Plan

  Under Public Consultation
  a)Transmission Plan,
  b)Synchronization Plan,
  c)Access Plan,
  d)Billing Plan.

  To be sent for public consultation
  a)Tariffs Plan.

 5) Procedures for resolution of disputes,

 5.1) Disputes between users and operators:
         Procedure to solve controversies between
         Users         and         Suppliers       of
         Telecommunications       Services, effective
         since November 9, 2001.
         Users Assistance Center (CAU): operating
         since   November      2000.   39,932  cases
         received, 99% concluded. Our of these
         cases, 57.8% were on telephony, 11.5% on
         cable TV, 2% on Internet, 20% on
         verification of mobile numbers, and 8.5%
         on other. In order to speed up the process
         and reduce costs, a negotiation unit has
         been created, which has solved more than
         50% of the cases.
         Administrative Tribunals are made up of 33
         people, and have received 1,758 claims,
         94% of them concluded. The Organic
         Functional Procedure for Administrative
         Tribunals has been approved.

 5.2) Disputes between operators: The elaboration of



24

 this procedure is still pending in INDOTEL.

 6) Regulations for each type of existing service and
 guidelines for new Services

 Approved by INDOTEL
  AM audio broadcasting Service, effective July 23,
  2002.
  FM audio broadcasting Service, effective July 23,
  2002.
  Cable TV Service, effective August 19, 2002.
  Television broadcasting Service, effective July 4,
  2004.
  Regulation on Service Quality and Network
  Security, effective August 1, 2006.

 7) FDT established and operational
 Currently effective:
 7.1) Universal Service Social Policy
 7.2) FDT Bylaws
 7.3) Bi-Annual Plan 2001-2003: executed.
 Acquired commitments:
 2001: RD$56.6 million (approx. $3.4 million)
 2002: RD$ 45.9 million (approx. $1.7 million)
 2003: RD$ 21.1 million (approx. $0.55 million)
 2004: RD$ 350.7 million (approx. $8.2 million)
 2005: RD$ 500.0 million (approx. $15 million)

 7.4) Bi-Annual Plan 2003-2005: Executed.

 7.5) Bi-Annual Plan 2005-2007: Under execution.

 Outstanding Balance as of August 31, 2006:
 620 DOP million (approx. $18.3 million).

 8) Competition Guidelines, approved by INDOTEL
 on March 2005.

 9) The Executive issued Law 126-02 on Electronic
 Commerce, Digital signature and documents, by
 which it appoints INDOTEL as the regulator for this
 sector. In March 2003, INDOTEL approved Ruling-
 Law 126-02 on Electronic Commerce, Digital
 Signatures and Documents; and in January 2004 part
 of the complementary rulings to Law 126-02 were
 approved. In March 2006, a second group of norms
 were approved.
         All Complementary regulations are currently
         under public consultation.

 10) General Guidelines for Number Portability,
 approved by INDOTEL on August 2006.

 11) Under Public Consultation:




25

                                                 Separate Accounting Procedure
                                                 General Procedure for telephone service
                                                 Procedures for Telecommunications services resale

2) New autonomous telecommunications regulatory 1) INDOTEL executive management appointed
entity                                          Executive management was appointed as soon as the
                                                project became effective.

                                                INDOTEL currently has more than six years of
                                                operation. Its webpage www.indotel.org.do includes
                                                a module of "TRANSPARENCIA", which includes
                                                all information on financial transactions from
                                                INDOTEL.

                                                2) Procedures, organizational functions, and roles
                                                defined
                                                Currently effective:
                                                      2.1) Ethics Code for employees,
                                                      2.2) Procurement Guidelines,
                                                      2.3) Guidelines for organizational functions
                                                and roles,
                                                      2.4) Procedures Guidelines,

                                                Under execution:
                                                      2.5)  Implementation     of    the  Project  of
                                                Document       Digitalization     and      Knowledge
                                                Management.

                                                3) Technical staff recruited and trained

                                                - Training provided to members of the judiciary
                                                system.

                                                - Training provided to key personnel in INDOTEL
                                                in regulatory matters.

                                                4) Regulator financially self-sufficient within 4
                                                years

                                                Since August 2000, INDOTEL has had full financial
                                                autonomy,    due    to   the   introduction   of  the
                                                Telecommunications      Development      Contribution
                                                (CDT), a 2% over total revenues reported by
                                                operators.

                                                Collections from CDT (DOP millions)
                                                2000 2001 2002         2003 2004        2005 2006*
                                                229.5 258.3 297.4 389.9 593.0           646.3 567.7
                                                      12.5% 15.1% 31.1% 52.09% 8.9%

                                                *As of September 30, 2006

3) Closure of DGT                               DGT's commercial operations terminated. Its
                                                personnel were given severance payments which
                                                added up to $0.827 million.




                                               26

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Consumer Surplus

For consumer surplus calculations, it has been assumed that the segment of demand
relevant to this analysis is linear. Basically, the calculation of consumer surplus can be
explained in the following graph:




             Graph 1. Supply and Demand Curves for Telephone Service

 Price
            D
                                                       S0
                                                                                 S1


  P0




   P1




                                     Q0                   Q1                     Quantity



When supply shifted from S0 to S1 with the introduction of competition and mobile
networks, price dropped and quantity increased. The area shown in stripes represents
transfers from operators or suppliers to consumers, whereas the dotted area represents
actual gains in consumer surplus created with the increase in coverage.

It could be argued that what happened in the market was a combination of shifts in
demand and supply. However, it can be demonstrated that had a shift in demand occurred,
it would increase welfare.

If we take price as the average revenue per user (ARPU) for mobile services, and quantity
to be the total number of subscribers to mobile networks, then the following table can be
calculated:


                                               27

                                 1999      2000       2001      2002      2003      2004      2005   Total

 ARPU (end of year)              17.28    12.24        9.72      7.51      4.83      9.50      9.50
 Total Mobile                  424,434  705,431   1,270,082 1,700,609 2,122,543 2,534,063 3,623,289
 subscribers

 Consumer surplus gains (US$ millions)
 Transfer from                             12.8        30.7      44.2      61.5      46.2      39.6  235.2
 suppliers
 New consumer                                3.6       23.4      58.6     112.0     105.6     130.3  433.4
 surplus
 Total gains for                           16.4        54.2    102. 9     173.5     151.8     169.9  668.6
 consumers
*ARPU available from Q12000 to Q42004 from Tricom.
Source: Wireless Intelligence, ITU.


So the total gains for consumers have been of approximately $668 million

Rural Projects

For the calculation on rural projects, it is estimated that every household in rural
communities spends approximately $3.1 per month in indirect costs related to making
phone calls because there are no telephones in their village2.

During the two phases of payphone installation by FDT, 2,250 communities with more
than 300 inhabitants were benefited with the installation of public payphones. Assuming
all these communities had 300 inhabitants and that there were approximately 5 members
in every household, every benefited community saves $2,232 per year by having a public
payphone in town, and hence the whole program has created $5 million per year in
savings.




2This estimation comes from a demand study made in Nicaragua in 2001 by Apoyo
Consultoria.



                                                           28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                 Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Eloy Eduardo Vidal        Lead Telecommunications Engineer CITPO
Marta Lucila Priftis      Senior Program Assistant            CITPO
Supervision/ICR
Eloy Eduardo Vidal       Lead Telecommunications Engineer CITPO
Juan Manuel Galarza Tohen Junior Professional Associate       CITPO
Juan Navas-Sabater        Sr Telecom. Spec.                   CITPO
Marta Lucila Priftis      Senior Program Assistant            CITPO
Arturo Muente-Kunigami   E T Consultant                       CITPO

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                   47.66
  FY99                                                                   77.98
  FY00                                         2                         13.74
  FY01                                                                    0.05
  FY02                                                                    0.00
  FY03                                                                    0.00
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
                         Total:                2                        139.43
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                    0.17
  FY99                                                                    0.80
  FY00                                        11                         33.88
  FY01                                        15                         60.60
  FY02                                        14                         62.46
  FY03                                        17                         68.81
  FY04                                        17                         85.06
  FY05                                        20                         89.38
  FY06                                        21                         94.18
  FY07                                         7                         33.58
                         Total:             122                         528.92




                                          29

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Bank's performance has been satisfactory in general, from the start of the project
until total implementation, all of this due to constant supervision and close follow-up of
each initiative proposed by INDOTEL.

The experience acquired from Bank officers since the start of the project helped
establishing INDOTEL as the telecommunications regulatory entity in Dominican
Republic.

The Borrower wants to thank the Bank for the flexibility and support received when a
reallocation of categories was required; as well as when the Government requested
extensions of the project's closing date due to reasons already explained in the main
report.

The Borrower also agrees with the argument that there were factors that affected project
implementation such as elections period in year 2004, which practically stopped all
disbursements. At that time, the new authorities appointed at INDOTEL had to be briefed
on the project and loan 4505-DO. They finally approved going forward with
implementation.

A factor that strongly influenced the project was the bureaucracy that the government put
in place for the system of payments using foreign resources, which consisted in a large
quantity of steps which many times delayed disbursements. Nevertheless, funds from
INDOTEL were always available, and this guaranteed the PMU could work without any
inconvenience.

With the help of the Bank, INDOTEL carried out successfully all selection processes and
contracts for different consultancies, as well as procurement of goods to execute
adequately all components of the project. Bank's guidelines were very useful for the
creation of procurement processes in INDOTEL, as well as for the creation of bidding
documents for all tenders executed by the Telecommunications Development Fund.

The general experience with the project has been positive. Execution had no
incoveniences except for some minor situations that appeared during implementation.

Regarding the creation of INDOTEL, and following the guidelines of the objectives set
for its creation, we could say that the entity has fulfilled the role of regulatory entity and
mediator of companies in the sector; as well as defender of users of services of one of the
most dynamic sectors in the country. INDOTEL has mantained a dynamic work
environment that constantly implements telecommunications development projects in
three main areas of human development, namely education, electronic government and
social inclusion throughout the country.




                                              30

The telecommunications sector in Dominican Republic has been one of the most
dynamics of the economy, with important contributions to GDP and relevant growth. The
sector grew 26.8% in 2005, trend that kept on 2006: 26% growth by the end of the third
quarter and 9% of GDP. Fixed and mobile lines in service as of December 2006 were
5,502,685 with a teledensity of 61%, against 4,519,541 lines by December 2005. This
meant an increase of 983,144 new lines in 2006 with respect to 2005. Due to the trend to
substitute fixed service with mobile service with the latest technologies offered, fixed
lines in service in Dominican Republic added up to 896,027. Fixed teledensity has
remained in 10.0%. For wireless services, total cellular lines is 4,605,659, increasing
627,207 new lines in service, which represents a 27.1% growth with respect to December
2005. Mobile teledensity for 2005 was 40%; whereas for 2006 it was of 51%. Internet
accounts grew in 49,331 new accounts with respect to 200, reaching 183,876 accounts in
service, representing a teledensity of 15.6% up to December 2006.




                                            31

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document for this Project (June 10, 1999)
Project Aide-Memoires
Project ISRs
Back-to-Office reports

_______________________________________________________________________




                                          32

