Report No. PID5863
Project Name                     Dominican Republic-Telecommunications (@)
Regulatory Reform Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Telecommunications and Informatics
Project ID                       DOPE52736
Borrower                         Government of The Dominican Republic
Implementing Agency              INDOTEL
Environment Category             C
Date PID Updated                 January 31, 2002
Project Appraisal                November 2, 1998
Project Board Date               July 6, 1999
A. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
1. The telecommunications sector in the Dominican Republic has
enjoyed rapid expansion over the past decade with an average
annual growth in the total number of lines of 15% and overall
sectoral growth slightly more. The sector currently accounts for
about 4.5% of GDP, having increased in relative importance over
the past several years. Notwithstanding this impressive overall
performance, sector growth has been heavily skewed in favor of
mobile and value-added services; development of
telecommunications has virtually ceased in the rural communities
despite an unmet demand in that area. Growth in residential
areas has also been very low. The reason for this imbalance is
due to the business strategies -- reflecting weak incentives --
of the telecommunications operators.
2. Telecommunication services in the Dominican Republic have been
provided by three licensed private sector enterprises for the
past three decades. CODETEL had enjoyed the dominant position
providing fixed lined, long-distance and international services
until the early 1990s when Tri-com and All American sought to
more aggressively enter the market for provision of long-distance
telephony services. CODETEL, however, imposed high
interconnection charges making access by the two firms very
difficult. Mandatory interconnection charges reflecting more
realistic costs were decreed by the Government in 1995, which
permitted Tri-com and All American to begin providing competitive
services.
3. Despite the opening of international services to competition,
the provision of local services have been neglected by the new
operators since the tariffs were unattractively low (having been
cross-subsidized by the high tariffs on international services).
But with increasing competition in international services,
returns on these operations have also fallen and operators have
sought to expand into mobile and value-added services which yield



relatively higher returns, ignoring the rural sector altogether.
4. In 1993 the three telecommunications companies began
consultations with the Government to draft a new
telecommunications law which would reflect the new competitive
environment, and be consistent with International
Telecommunication Union (ITU) standards. In 1995, the Government
responded by beginning to draft new legislation covering
interconnection and tariff rebalancing, as well as the need to
further develop telecommunications in the rural areas. The draft
law also included the ratification of commitments made by the
Government to the WTO Agreement on Basic Telecommunications.
Finally in April 1998, the draft law was considered and passed by
Congress.
5. The new legislation reflects a consensus among the local
participants, including broadcasters, who have been brought
within the regime. Key elements of the new regime are: (i) open
entry; (ii) mandatory interconnection; (iii) price regulation
limited to those services provided by dominant operators; (iv)
establishment of an autonomous regulatory institution which will
be financed by a portion of a 2t levy assessed on end-user
telecommunication services and net international settlements
[Contribuci6n al Desarrollo de las Telecomunicaciones (CDT)]; and
(v) universal service provided by the private sector but assisted
by the Fondo para el Desarrollo de las Telecomunicaciones (FDT)
which is financed from the CDT levy.
6. The provision of services to rural and poor areas had been the
responsibility of the Directorate-General of Telecommunications
in the Secretariat of Public Works (DGT). The Secretariat
employs about 730 staff to operate its telegraph system and
charges only nominal fees. The system is virtually entirely
financed out of public funds. Moreover, recent advances in
technology offer means to improve communications service
provision to these rural areas, while reducing (or eliminating)
the burden on public expenditures. In light of these factors,
under the new law the DGT will be dismantled.
7. As provided for by the new law, the DGT will be replaced by
INDOTEL, the new regulatory entity. INDOTEL will have only a
role as a regulator and will not operate any systems, unlike the
DGT had done. INDOTEL will now be responsible for sector
regulation, planning, and policy. This includes the policy to
extend coverage to rural areas which private sector providers
have not reached.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
8. The project seeks to strengthen the policy and regulatory
environment in the telecommunications sector and improve rural
access to services by encouraging private investment in those
areas.
-2-



Key indicators of success in achieving the project development
objectives will be:
- decrease in the number of illegal transmitters by 75t by year
four;
- rural access to telecom services increased from 40t to 50t by
year four; and
- total number of lines (including mobile) per 100 inhabitants
increased from 10 to 14 by year four.
9. The project would help strengthen the policy and regulatory
environment in the telecommunications sector and improve rural
access to services by encouraging private investment in those
areas.
10. Specifically, the project would support the development of a
modern regulatory framework including the drafting and
implementation of legal, economic, and technical regulations
related to: granting of concessions and licenses for
telecommunications services; competition policy regarding
telecommunications services; mobile services; and broadcasting
and fixed services (including basic telephony, carriers and
satellites). In addition, technical assistance would be
available for the design of a proposal for interconnection rates
and tariffs; the design and development of fundamental technical
plans and basic technical norms for an efficient national
telephone system; and the design and development of a plan for
the national allocation of spectrum frequencies.
11. As part of project preparation, an earlier study of radio
spectrum frequency monitoring equipment and systems needs has
been reviewed and expanded (i.e., detailed engineering and
costing) to determine the number, location, and characteristics
of this system and for preparation the bidding documents. The
project would finance the acquisition of the spectrum monitoring
equipment and system, including training staff in its use and
maintenance.
12. Support would also be provided to design and start-up an
independent regulatory agency with responsibility for sector
regulation, planning, and policy. Technical assistance would
include training of staff, overseas visits, and consultancies to
cover detailed elaboration of the organizational structure, job
descriptions, internal systems, and procedures.
13. The project would support the design and operations of a
rural telecommunications development fund to provide incentives
for private operators to build-out the telecommunications network
in under-served rural areas. A study of the needs and demand for
telecommunications in rural and poor areas would be financed
under the project. Design of the legal and contractual
arrangements under which these would be efficiently provided to
rural and poor areas by private providers would also be
supported.
-3-



C. PROJECT FINANCING (US$mln)
IBRD: 12.30
Borrower Counterpart: 9.35
Total Project Cost: US$21.65
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
14. Initially, project implementation would be undertaken by the
PMU (part of the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency), which
successfully prepared the project. The management of the
remaining activities of the project (principally training of
staff, purchase of the spectrum monitoring system, and
implementation of the FDT) would be taken over by INDOTEL once it
is operational.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
15. If properly implemented, the benefits from the project should
be permanent because the legal and regulatory framework would
provide for adequate operational and financial independence for
the new regulatory entity.
16. The main risks to sustainability are: the Government delays
execution of the project; political will wanes to implement
regulatory framework to promote competition and efficiency; or
Government could seek to intervene in INDOTEL's actions or
INDOTEL could take actions (possibly politically motivated) which
reduce investor and consumer confidence.
F. PROJECT BENEFITS
17. The project would benefit all telecommunications users in the
Dominican Republic by increasing the availability of telephone
lines and improving service. The introduction of greater
competition in the sector and the stronger role of the regulating
agency will serve to control cost of services and also have a
favorable impact on service quality and variety.
18. The expansion and improvement of telecommunications services
would contribute to economic development and improve the quality
of life by improving health and education services and enhancing
public administration. Residents of rural areas, in particular,
would benefit greatly by obtaining access to telephone services,
often for the first time.
19. Businesses, which increasingly depend upon telecommunication
services to be competitive, will benefit especially from lower
costs for international communications and greater variety of
value-added services. Moreover, foreign investors will be more
attracted to the Dominican Republic if it has a modern
telecommunications sector.
-4-



20. Creating a strong regulator, INDOTEL, would lead to more
transparent and accountable regulatory framework, reducing the
risks and increasing the interest of private investors
(especially foreign) as operators would know the rules for
licensing, tariff adjustments, interconnection, etc. INDOTEL
would also gain by developing its capacity to manage radio
spectrum and thereby ensure the availability of frequencies and
reduce radio interference problems. This would make private
investment in wireless technologies more attractive and improve
the quality of services offered.
21. The Government also has much to gain from the modernization
of the regulatory framework, supported by the project.
Government expenditures would be reduced by the elimination of
the DGT. The new regulatory agency would eventually be self-
financing via the CDT and revenues from fees. In addition,
greater competition among telecom operators will lead to improved
services and thereby stimulate economic growth, resulting in
greater revenues to the Government from operator licenses and tax
receipts. The FDT, in particular, will support build-out of
rural telecommunications.
G. LESSONS FROM PAST OPERATIONS IN THE COUNTRIES/SECTORS
22. Lessons learned in other restructuring and privatization
projects in the telecom sector are reflected in the project
design. These are:
- A clear, predictable regulatory framework is a prerequisite to
attracting investment in the sector.
- Government should create an independent, technical, and self-
financed regulatory entity to grant new licenses, solve disputes
among operators, and protect the public interest.
- Government should not participate as a provider of telecom
services, which are more efficiently run by private companies.
- Telecommunication investments in rural areas can yield, on
average, an adequate and even high economic as well as financial
rate of return. Servicing the remotest areas, however,
represents higher costs per line and greater risk, and therefore
may require a subsidy.
- Universal access funds have been successfully used in both
industrialized and developing countries. In Chile, which is
considered a best practice example, the amount of the subsidies
were actually quite low but provided considerable leverage to
generate much greater telecommunications development in the rural
sector. The subsidies were distributed competitively (ranging
from 0 to US$10,000 per line), using a least-cost approach with a
one-time subsidy for capital, rather than for recurrent costs.
- Whether a universal access fund is successful or not will
depend in large measure on whether it is complemented by sector
liberalization and reform. The most significant profitability
factors for rural investments relate more to policy variables
(especially interconnection and tariffs) than to risk and
financial variables. It is important to note, however, that
reform efforts are likely to have more impact if they are backed
with such financial incentives, albeit relatively small overall.
- 5 -



- Newly-created regulatory entities are frequently overwhelmed
but have little expertise to drawn upon. Providing on-sight
consultant support and hand-holding during the initial start-up
phase has been shown to be very useful.
H. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
23. This is a telecommunications restructuring project, which
involves primarily policy and institution-building components.
The radio spectrum monitoring equipment to be financed by the
project for use by INDOTEL receives radio and other
electromagnetic signals to determine which frequencies are in use
and by whom. It produces no pollution, can be small enough to
fit inside a briefcase, and will be operated out of existing
physical facilities.
24. The FDT will be designed to include an assessment on all
rural expansion projects supported by the fund, to ensure that
there is no adverse environmental impact.
25. Unlike other infrastructure projects that may degrade the
environment, telecommunication projects yield environmental
benefits in as much as they:
- Substitute transport by a clean communication using signals;
- Provide the means for people to communicate, including the
detection and correction of environmental hazards; and
- Used as a means to monitor the quality of the environment
including the pollution in water, air and deforestation using
satellite imagery.
26. Competitive pricing of communications could benefit the
environment by permitting development of non-tourism service
exports such as data processing and computer-based services,
which are environmentally friendly.
Contact Point:
Mr. Eloy E. Vidal, EMTTI
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Room F5K - 126
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-2694
Fax: (202) 522-3001
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 8, 2002.
-6-



