Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4505-DO
Project Agreement
(Telecommunications Regulatory Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO DOMINICANO DE LAS TELECOMUNICACIONES
Dated August 11, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4505-DO
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INSTITUTO DOMINICANO DE LAS TELECOMUNICACIONES 
(INDOTEL). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Dominican 
Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to twelve million three hundred thousand Dollars 
($12,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that INDOTEL agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
INDOTEL, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to INDOTEL on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary  
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS INDOTEL, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. INDOTEL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) INDOTEL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, INDOTEL shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and INDOTEL, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
INDOTEL on 
said plan. 
Section 2.04. INDOTEL shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, INDOTEL shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) INDOTEL shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
INDOTEL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by INDOTEL of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06. INDOTEL shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the monitoring and evaluation 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
by February 28 of each year of Project execution, starting in 2000, 
furnish to the Bank an annual progress report on the execution of the Project, said 
report to be of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested and 
to include the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section;
(c)
review with the Bank, not later than March 31 of each year of Project 
Page  3
implementation, starting in 2000: (i) the corresponding report referred to in 
paragraph (b) herein; and (ii) the matters set forth in the Implementation Letter; and 
(d)
participate in a Project implementation mid-term review to be held with 
the Bank as part of the annual review to be held no later than March 31, 2001 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. 
Section 2.07. INDOTEL shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with a 
program for the separation of DGT staff, acceptable to the Bank, said program to be 
prepared in accordance with guidelines, procedures and criteria set forth or referred 
in the Implementation Letter. 
Section 2.08. (a) INDOTEL shall issue a manual on procurement procedures, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be used for Project operations. In case of any conflict 
between the terms of this manual and those of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, the 
terms of the Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement shall prevail.
(b)
Throughout the course of the Project implementation, INDOTEL shall 
operate and maintain a project management unit (PMU), with staff in numbers and with 
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, which unit shall assist INDOTEL in managing 
the Project.
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of INDOTEL 
Section 3.01. INDOTEL shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. INDOTEL shall at all times operate and maintain its property, and 
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and technical practices. 
Section 3.03. INDOTEL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) INDOTEL shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
INDOTEL shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account 
audited for each fiscal year in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the  Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
Page  4
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, INDOTEL shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, INDOTEL shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for 
the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of 
said Section 4.01 in order to enable INDOTEL, not later than  December 31, 1999 or 
such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, INDOTEL shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of INDOTEL 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify INDOTEL thereof. 
Page  5
Section 5.03. All provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or 
telex to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall 
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For INDOTEL:
Instituto Dominicano de las Telecomunicaciones:
Oficinas Gubernamentales Bloque C, 2do Piso Ave Mexico 
Santo Domingo 
República Dominicana
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of INDOTEL may be 
taken or executed by its Consejo Directivo or such other person or persons as the 
Consejo Directivo shall designate in writing, and INDOTEL shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO DOMINICANO DE LAS 
   TELECOMUNICACIONES
Page  6
By /s/ Francisco Frias
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $400,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
International or National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to:   
(a)
each contract to be awarded under Part B of this Section, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; and
(b)
the first three contracts to be awarded under Part C of this Section, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
Page  7
to the Bank 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications of the goods to be acquired, 
and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Auditing services under the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for capacity building which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  8
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
