Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4505-DO
Loan Agreement
(Telecommunications Regulatory Reform Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 11, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4505-DO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 1999, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Instituto Dominicano de las 
Telecomunicaciones (INDOTEL) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II 
of this Agreement (the Loan) available to INDOTEL, as set forth in this Agreement;  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and INDOTEL (the 
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“DGT” means Dirección General de Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower’s 
Directorate-General of Telecommunications under the Ministry of Public Works and 
Communications; 
(b)
“DGT Severance Compensation” means the severance payments made by INDOTEL 
to redundant staff of DGT under the Separation Program (as hereinafter defined); 
(c)
“Eligible Categories”  means categories (1) and (2) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(e)
“FDT” means Fondo para la Financiación de Proyectos de Desarrollo 
(Development Project Financing Fund)  referred to in Article 49 of the 
Telecommunications Law (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower and INDOTEL to the Bank setting forth: (i) the monitoring and evaluation 
indicators for the Project; and (ii) the guidelines, procedures and criteria for the 
Separation Program (as hereinafter defined);  
(g)
“INDOTEL” means Instituto Dominicano de las Telecomunicaciones (Dominican 
Telecommunications Institute), the Borrower’s telecommunications regulatory agency, 
created pursuant to the Telecommunications Law (as hereinafter defined); 
(h)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit referred to in Section 2.08 (b) 
of the Project Agreement;  
(i)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
(j)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on November 26, 1997 and on behalf of the Borrower on December 2, 1997; 
(k)
“Separation Program” means the program referred to in Section 2.07 of the 
Project Agreement; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(m)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and INDOTEL pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement; and 
(n)
“Telecommunications Law” means the Borrower’s law No. 153-98 dated May 
27, 1998.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to INDOTEL. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twelve 
million three hundred thousand Dollars ($12,300,000). 
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Consejo Directivo of INDOTEL and any person or persons whom 
the Consejo Directivo shall designate in writing are designated as representatives of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause INDOTEL to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of INDOTEL therein 
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
INDOTEL to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to INDOTEL 
under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and INDOTEL, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary  Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
Page  4
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
INDOTEL pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall participate in the annual and mid-term reviews 
referred to in Section 2.06 (c) and (d) of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
INDOTEL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that INDOTEL will be able to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
Page  5
(c)
The Telecommunications Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of INDOTEL to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely: (a) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and INDOTEL; (b) that a financial management system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, is in place for INDOTEL; and (c) that INDOTEL shall have 
issued the manual referred to in Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
is being executed and delivered on behalf of, INDOTEL, and is legally binding upon 
INDOTEL in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and is being executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and INDOTEL and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and INDOTEL in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of December 22, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as indicated in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Secretario Técnico de la Presidencia is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia
Palacio Nacional
Avenida México
Santo Domingo
República Dominicana
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Juan Temístocles Montás
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
  4,450,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services
  2,898,000
100%
and Training
(3)
DGT Severance Compensation   1,500,000
100%
(4)
Refunding of Project
  2,000,000
Amounts due 
Preparation Advance
pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(5)
Fee
    123,000
Amount due
under Section 2.04
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
  1,329,000
 __________
TOTAL
 12,300,000
Page  7
 ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures incurred by INDOTEL in connection 
with the carrying out of the training activities of the Project, including the travel 
cost and per diem of the trainers and trainees, rental of facilities, training 
materials and tuition.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) of the table set forth 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the 
Separation Program in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent; (b) under contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) under contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (d) for Training. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco Central de la República Dominicana (the Borrower’s central bank), on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
Page  8
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect 
of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Page  9
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories. 
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the Borrower’s policy and 
regulatory environment of its telecommunications sector and improve rural access to 
telecommunications services by encouraging private investment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
New  Telecommunications Technical and Regulatory Framework
Provision of technical and legal advisory services to assist in the drafting of 
laws, regulations and policies covering, inter alia, the following aspects: (a) 
competition policy regarding telecommunication services, in accordance with the 
Telecommunications Law; (b) granting of concessions and licenses for 
telecommunications services; (c) interconnection rates and tariffs, including a tariff 
rebalancing scheme to eliminate cross-subsidies between local and other services; (d) 
mobile services, including cellular services and Personal Communications Services; (e) 
technical aspects of broadcasting and fixed telecommunication services, including 
basic telephony, carriers and satellites; (f) the design and development of 
fundamental technical plans and basic technical standards and norms for an efficient 
national telephone system (such as numbering, transmissions, signaling, etc); (g) 
allocation of spectrum frequencies, including the design and development of a plan for 
Page  10
the national allocation of spectrum frequencies; (h) provision of existing and new 
telecommunication services; (i) the design, management and operation of the FDT to 
expand and ensure telecommunication services to rural areas, as provided for under the 
Telecommunications Law, including the provision of training for INDOTEL’s technical 
and management staff to assist in the implementation of FDT; and (j) dispute 
resolution mechanisms.
Part B:
New Autonomous Telecommunications Regulatory Entity
1.
Provision of technical assistance for: (a) the strengthening of INDOTEL, 
including the preparation of its operational manual and the definition of its 
operational structure; (b) the recruitment and training of management and technical 
staff of INDOTEL; and (c) the procurement of technical and office equipment for 
INDOTEL. 
2.
Acquisition of radio spectrum monitoring equipment and other technical and 
office equipment for the operation of INDOTEL. 
3.
Design and carry out a training plan based on skill assessment for INDOTEL’s 
technical and management staff.
Part C:
DGT Severance Compensation 
Program 
Preparation and implementation of a Separation Program designed to facilitate 
the separation of redundant staff in the Borrower’s telecommunications sector through 
the provision of DGT Severance Compensation.
Part D:
Project Management  
1.
Management and supervision of overall Project implementation by INDOTEL. 
2.
Design and implementation of a public relations campaign to develop awareness 
among the general public with respect to the benefits of the reform in the 
telecommunications sector. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement. (d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day 
of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
Page  11
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
Page  12
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall 
be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after September, 15, 2015, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
