Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  
AB2704
 
Project Name 
Armenia Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit III (PRSCIII) 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
Development Policy Lending 
Project ID 
P093460 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Armenia 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
Republic of Armenia 
Government House 1 
Republic Square, 375010 
Yerevan, Armenia 
Phone: 374-1-595304 
Date PID Prepared 
05/12/2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
01/11/2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
02/27/2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
(This section should discuss whether there has been good progress on important institutional and 
structural reforms. Highlight specific measures taken by the government and supported by this 
proposed loan. Note recent macroeconomic performance and poverty reduction efforts, if 
supported by sustainable policies.) 
The Armenian authorities continue carrying out a successful 
stabilization and structural 
reform program 
following the hyperinflation, fiscal crisis and severe economic contraction 
immediately after independence in 1991-93 
–
a
period that also saw the devastating 
consequences of a major earthquake and armed conflict with Azerbaijan.  Reforms accelerated 
after 2000, after the legal framework for a market economy was established with trade and prices 
were liberalized and most small and medium-sized enterprises privatized. Macroeconomic 
stability was maintained, inflation was low, structural reforms were carried out and economic 
recovery began.  Successful implementation of economic reforms contributed to an average 
growth of 5.5 percent per year during 1994-2000 given the focus of reform on improving the 
business environment and public utilities management, strengthening governance, competition 
and financial intermediation as well as promoting structural changes in public service delivery.   
Deepening structural and institutional reforms resulted in a stellar annual average growth rates of 
12.2 per cent were achieved over 2001-05, peaking at 14 percent in 2005. Such high rates of 
sustained growth have led to a fall in poverty from over half of the population in 1999 to less 
than 30 percent in 2005, and an even sharper fall in severe poverty from 21 percent to less than 5 
per cent.  Growth has recently begun to dent unemployment which stands at nearly one-third of 
the labor force.  During this time, economic growth was driven for the first time by a high rate of 
export expansion, which tripled in 2001-2005. In 2001-2005 the average 
inflation
 remained at 3 
percent.  
Page  2
The government continues to be committed to the reform program and, as noted above, 
macroeconomic performance
 continues to be most impressive.  In governance, the triggers for 
tax administration reforms have been achieved, with steady progress in designing self assessment 
of taxes and the strengthening of the functioning of the large tax payer unit.  Direct trader input 
systems have been introduced in the major customs house and implementation will continue to 
be monitored closely in the coming months.  Risk-based systems are being adapted to support 
rules-based selectivity in import examinations, but will require a further year to be fully 
functional to international standards.   In the area of 
public management
 reforms, substantial 
gains have been realized.  Budgets follow GFS classification standards, with integrated charts of 
accounts and reporting standards. Programme budgeting has been piloted in key spending 
ministries.  Staff performance appraisal in the civil servicewas adapted to allow for a merit based 
wage and bonus system.  
 
Second generation reforms to 
sharpen competition and entrench property rights 
have been 
undertaken
 
consisting of a cluster of crucial micro-economic reforms to reduce costs and raise 
efficiency.  The authorities have adopted a policy of liberalizing 
international civil aviation, 
railways, telecommunication and public utilities. 
To strengthen property rights and create the 
conditions for an efficient loans market, steps have been taken to strengthen creditor rights and 
make 
secured transactions
 possible. Further more reforms also focused on 
mitigating social 
and environmental risks.  
In 
education and health
,
reforms were directed at re-ordering 
priorities in spending, whilst spending in real terms were raised very substantially. 
Environmental risks have been reduced by the adoption of a national 
forestry policy
 and codes 
and by an increased role for environmental impact assessment and supervision in public policy. 
Reforms directed at 
modernizing the rural economy 
centered on stimulating 
farm incomes 
through implementing effective programmes for agricultural extension, research, the adoption of 
best practice seeds law and certification procedures and steps towards harmonizing food safety 
legislation to international standards.  A major focus remains the development of 
rural 
infrastructure development plan. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
(This section should describe the operation, including a clear, succinct statement of development 
objectives. It discusses the expected benefits of the proposed operation, expected impacts, and linkages to 
the Government’s program.  A description of the prior actions, i.e., conditions, for Board presentation 
should also be included in this section. ) 
Scope and objectives of the operation. 
The main areas of focus for the operation are: (i) 
consolidating macroeconomic discipline and strengthening governance, (ii) sharpening 
competition and entrenching property rights; (iii) mitigating social and environmental risks; and 
(iv) modernizing the rural economy.   In addition to the fact that the proposed PRSC builds on 
the 
Government’s PRSP themes, it is also closely linked to the FY05-08 Country Assistance 
Strategy (CAS) which focuses on three main objectives: (i) promoting private sector led growth; 
(ii) making growth more pre-poor; and (iii) reducing non-income poverty.  The FY05-08 CAS 
envisions the proposed PRSC as the key elements of supporting PRSP implementation.  The 
PRSC preparation is also closely coordinated with the IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth 
Facility (PRGF) and activities of other donors in Armenia.  
 
Page  3
Linkages to Government reform program and expected benefits
.
The proposed PRSC-III is 
the third in the set of three annual PRSCs rooted in the medium term Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Paper (PRSP) of the authorities.  The proposed credit is extended on the basis of policy and 
institutional reform actions taken by the authorities as agreed with IDA.  Given substantial 
progress made, PRSC-IV will be made available as the agreed triggers of policy and institutional 
reforms are satisfied.  The main benefits of the proposed credit are to help sustain economic 
growth and pov
erty reduction by deepening Government’s high priority reforms and channeling 
financial and policy assistance in support of the implementation of the PRSP objectives to 
improve business environment, advance social sector reforms, and strengthen the rural economy.   
 
Full description of prior actions is given below: 
PRSC3 Triggers  
Start implementation of self-assessment systems; adhere to reform plan for the Large Taxpayer Unit.  
Complete and implement DTI facilities in major customs houses in line with program agreed with IDA.  
Implement a more liberal civil aviation regime in line with policy statement and market potential. 
Develop telecommunications regulatory policy and time-bound action plan in line with international 
best practice 
Sustain improvements in secured transactions conditions.  
Adopt the law on private pension insurance and implement the action plan to develop supervisory and 
regulatory capacity. 
Adhere to the rationalization program in the hospital sector as measured by target bed ratio and 
physician ratio. 
Control illegal logging and forest removal within targets agreed with IDA  
Satisfactory progress with implementation of the plan on agricultural extension, research and education 
Implement rural infrastructure action plan that encompasses: (i) classification of communities 
according to clearly defined criteria; (ii) definition of the universal access concept and development of 
an adequate financing mechanism; (iii) delineation of ownership and operational responsibilities; and 
(iv) introduction of simplified standards and new technologies. 
Expected outcomes and operation impact
.
In macroeconomic area it is expected that the 
national output will grow
 by 65 percent over the 2004-09/10 period, with 
income per head
 
approximating $2300 in constant 2004 dollars
.
Inflation
 is expected to be kept below 3 percent 
throughout 2004-07, consistent with 
fiscal deficits
 in the 2-3 percent of GDP range, on the basis 
of 
tax revenues
 rising from the equivalent of 14 percent of GDP in 2003 to 16 percent of GDP in 
2008.  Key 
institutional outcomes
 are expected to include the following: (i) attainment of 
international standards in customs control and in tax administration; (ii) the adoption of GFS 
2001 budget classifications and IPSAS cash basis standards in all ministries; (iii) budget 
execution reports to contain both financial and non-financial performance indicators, (iii) staff 
performance appraisal system in implementation in pilot ministries, (iv) the internal audit system 
being fully in place in pilot ministries; (v) non-commercial organizations complying with 
financial reporting requirements; and (vi) electronic procurement introduced.  
The 
improved competition environment
 will be evident in a fall in transport costs in aviation 
and rail services and in 
quality gains in utilities services
 in line with quantitative indicators set 
as minimum service quality standard for frequency and duration of available service.  A new 
telecommunication policy statement is planned which would provide pre-conditions for the entry 
Page  4
of new operators.  The 
entrenchment of property rights
 is expected to lead to an 
expansion
 
of 
financial intermediation
 with increases in credit extended (as costs and risks associated with 
secured transactions fall) and in deposit mobilization by banks (as confidence grows).  A near 
four-fold 
rise in insurance activities
 is expected over a three year period.  By 2007/08 rural 
economy is expected to record an 
acceleration in productivity growth
 and cost recovery in 
areas served by extension services and an increase in farmers access to advisory services and use 
of recommended practices.  
Farm output
 will benefit by raised standards in seed quality, and 
with the development of food safety standards, share of agricultural products tested and certified 
would significantly rise.  The shift in emphasis in infrastructure services to the rural economy 
with associated tilt in donor financing will result in a convergence of quality standards in utilities 
throughout the country.  
3. Preliminary description 
(This section should describe the main areas where specific actions are supported by the proposed 
operation.  List the principal benefits of the proposed operation. Note how the proposed operation would 
support the government to pursue its policy objectives within a structured macroeconomic framework and 
how the operation would strengthen overall performance of the economy and contribute to poverty 
alleviation.) 
The proposed credit will strengthen overall performance of the economy and will contribute to 
further poverty alleviation by building up on previous measures (PRSC I and II) and continuing 
supporting   measures to strengthen public management and governance, expand the public 
provision of basic education and health, and improve equitability of access to those services, 
especially for the poor.  It will also expand employment opportunities and increase incomes, 
through reforms to strengthen the business environment for private sector development and 
improve competitiveness, promote the shift to a more specialized and commercialized 
agriculture, broaden the reach of the financial sector and the services it offers, and promote the 
development of internal market access and Armenia’s international trade.  These measures would 
support key government policy reforms, in particular in the  area of ensuring macroeconomic 
stability, private sector-led export-oriented and pro-poor growth, reducing non-income poverty, 
modernizing rural economy and strengthening human capital, as outlined in the Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper. Principal benefits of the operation have been outlined earlier in the 
text.  
 
4.    Environment Aspects 
(The Bank determines whether specific country policies supported by the operation are likely to cause 
significant effects on the country
’s environment, forests, and other natural resources. For country 
policies with likely significant effects, this section should discuss any relevant relevant country-level or 
sectoral environmental analysis of the borrower’s systems for reducing such adverse effects and 
enhancing positive effects.) 
 
The PRSC supports several policy and institutional reforms in the environment and forestry 
sector by focusing on environmental supervision, national forest policy, combating illegal 
logging, establishing community forestry, and institutional restructuring in the forestry sector.  
Key government policies and programs that are addressed through the PRSC cover (i) 
environmental impact assessment and supervision and (ii) policy and institutional reforms in the 
forest sector.  These actions are partially supported by the ongoing Natural Resources 
Management and Poverty Reduction Project (NRMPRP), which aims to support sustainable 
Page  5
natural resource management in mountainous areas of Armenia, where degradation of natural 
resources is reaching a critical point.   Actions under the PRSC are expected to have a substantial 
beneficial impact on environmental management.  Key environmental risks in the country are 
expected to be reduced by creation of community forestry programs and reduction of illegal 
logging, and improvement in water supply.  
The impact of PRSC supported forestry reforms in Armenia is likely to have a substantial impact 
on sustainable livelihoods.  Forests serve as the safety nets for rural population.  Forests served 
as safety net during the period of harsh economic and energy crises in early 1990s. Wild food 
and fuel-wood were by far the two most important forest products harvested from forests. After 
the crises, the commercial timber harvest continued to be the major challenge for the forests. The 
over-exploitation of forests continues, which will result in considerable negative impact of 
sustainable livelihoods in Armenia.  To avoid degradation of its already scarce forest resources, 
Armenia must maintain efficient forest management institutions. The Government is committed 
to rehabilitation and sustainable management of forests as affirmed by its commitment to PRSC 
actions, increased forestry budget allocations, and progress toward institutional reforms.   
5.    Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
28.0 
Government of Netherlands 
 5.0 
 Total 
33.0 
 
6.    Contact point 
 
Contact: Saumya Mitra 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel:  (202) 458-9713 
Fax: (202) 522-2753 
Email: 
Smitra@worldbank.org
