Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13853-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
APRIL 17,1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of January 31, 1995)
Currency Unit  =   Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1.00 = K 660
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton (tonne)  =   1000 kg or 2.205 pounds
I meter (m)  =   3.2808 feet
lkilometer (km)  =   0.6214 miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                -    African Development Bank
CIP                -    Capital Investment Programs
CPDDP              -    Central Province District Development Support Project
CU                 -    Commercially Viable Water and Sanitation Utilities
DCA                -    Development Credit Agreement
DISS               -    Department of Infrastructure and Support Services
ESAC               -    Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
FTP                -    Finance Training Project
GDP                -    Gross Domestic Product
GRZ                -    Government of the Republic of Zambia
GTZ                -    Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA                -    International Development Association
IBRD               -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                -    International Competitive Bidding
JICA               -    Japanese International Cooperation Agency
LGA                -    Local Government Act
LG                 -    Local Government
LOGOS              -    Local Governtent Support
MLGH               -    Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MEWD               -    Ministry of Energy and Water Development
M&E                -    Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF                -    Ministry of Finance
MT                 -    Management and Training
NCB                -    National Competitive Bidding
NGO                -    Non-Governmental Organization
NORAD              -    Norwegian Directorate for Development Aid
NWASCO             -    National Water and Sanitation Council
ODA                -    Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
O&M                -    Operation and Maintenance
PCU                -    Programme Coordination Unit
PPF                -    Project Preparation Facility
PSRP               -    Public Sector Reform Project
RDC                -    Resident Development Committee
REAP               -    Revenues Enhancement Action Plan
SBD                -    Standard Bidding Documents
SDR                -    Special Drawing Rights
SIAP               -    Systems Improvement Action Plan
SOE                -    Statement of Expenditure
STP                -    Settlement Technical Plan
TA                 -    Technical Assistance
TOR                -    Terms of Reference
UNCHS              -    United Nations Center for Human Settlements
URWSP              -    Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project
WSDG               -    Water Supply and Sanitation Development Group
WSS                -    Water Supply and Sanitation
ZCCM               -    Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines



ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY ................................................................                                                i-iv
Chapter 1: SECTOR  BACKGROUND  .............................                                        ................................... I
A  Country Background .................................................................1
B  The Urban Context ................................................................                                                        2
C  Urban Water and  Sanitation ................................................................                                              3
D  Bank Experience in the Urban and Water Supply Sectors .................................................. 5
E  Strategy and Approach to the Sector ................................................................                                      7
F  Rationale for IDA  Involvement ................................................................                                           8
G  Related Donor Activities ................................................................                                                 9
Chapter 2: THE  PROJECT  ................................................................  10
A  Project Origin and Formulation ................................................................                                          10
B  Project Objectives .................................................................11
C  Project Description                 ..............................1..................................  1
D  Project Implementation ................................................................                                                  17
Chapter 3: PROJECT  COST ................................................................                                                      20
A  Financing Plan  ................................................................ 21
B  Flow  of Funds ................................................................ 21
C  Disbursements ................................................................                                                           22
D  Procurement ................................................................ 23
E  Civil Works ................................................................ 24
F Equipment ................................................................                                                               25
G  Consulting  Services and Training  .............................                            ................................... 25
H  Procurement Management ................................................................ 26
I Accounting  and Auditing ................................................................                                                 26
J Bank Supervision and Reporting Requirements .............................................................. 27
Chapter 4: PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS ................................................................ 28
A  Primary  Project Justification ................................................................                                         28
B  Key Indicators of Success ................................................................ 29
C  Environmental Impact ................................................................                                                    29
D  Poverty Alleviation ................................................................ 31
E  Sustainability ................................................................                                                          31
F  Project Risks ................................................................ 32
Chapter 5: AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                                                        . .    33
A  Conditions of Credit Effectiveness ................................ . ............................... 33
B  Conditions of Disbursement: ................................................................                                             33
C  Agreements Reached During  Negotiations ................................................................    33
D  Recommendation  ................................................................ 34



Annexes
1      Items in Project File
2.1     Description of Investment Component
2.2     Description of Demonstration Component
2.3     Local Government Finance Issues
2.4    Local Government Management Issues
2.5    Organization Chart of DISS in MLGH
2.6     Project Implementation Schedule
2.7    Monitoring and Evaluation Framework
2.8    Supervision Plan/Table of Contents of Project Implementation Plan
3.1     Detailed Cost Tables
3.2     Detailed Disbursement Schedule
3.3     Audit Requirements
4       Environmental Analysis
Map: IBRD No. 26587
This report is based on findings of Bank missions which visited Zambia in June/July and October 1994, comprising
Messrs/Mmes. Imogene Jensen (Sr. Economist and Task Manager), Brian Binder (Municipal Finance Specialist), Roy
Brockman (Institutional Specialist ), Hilary Cottam (Urban Poverty Specialist), Dave DeGroot (Urban Development and
Housing Specialist), Knut Haukland (Water Engineer), Vijay Jagannathan (Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist), John
Kalbermatten (Water and Waste Management Engineer), Catherine Seibert (Financial Analyst), John Shepherd (Water
Resource Management Specialist) and Terry Sketchell (Municipal Finance Specialist). Messrs. Jaime Roman and Art
Fields provided procurement advice. Mmes. Joyce Chinsen and Robin Harris provided administrative support in the
preparation of the project. Mr. William Dillinger is the peer reviewer. Mr. Jeffrey Racki is the Division Chief, Ms.
Phyllis Pomerantz is the Country Operations Manager and Ms. Katherine Marshall is the Director.



- 1 -
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                        Republic of Zambia
Beneficiary:                     Ministry of Local Government and Housing; City Councils
of Lusaka, Kitwe and Ndola; Municipal Councils of
Chingola, Kalulushi, Livingstone, Luanshya and Mufulira;
and District Councils of Kafue and Mazabuka
Poverty:                         Program of targeted interventions
Amount:                          SDR 21.3 million (US$33.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                           Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:                  0.50 percent on undisbursed balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:
(USS million)
LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL
A. Water Supply and Sanitation Rebabilitation
Water Supply                                                       2.8        8.7       11.5
Sanitation                                                         2.8        2.8        5.6
TA for water and sewer system design and management                0.9       10.3       11.2
Sub-total                                                             6.5       21.8      28.3
B. Conmnunity-based Demonstration Projects
Community-based projects                                          1.1         3.9       5.0
Institutional Support                                             0.5        0.1       0.6
Sub-total                                                             1.6        4.0       5.6
C. Reform and Capacity-Building
Water Sector Management and Policy Studies                       0.4         1.6       2.0
Planning, programming and sectoral reform                        0.7        4.1        4.8
Project-related TA (accounting support, audit fees, and          0.2        0.2        0.4
procurement)
Sub-Total                                                             1.3        5.9       7.2
D. PPF Refrnancing (related to C (Hi) above)                          0.2        0.8        1.0
Total Base Cost                                                       9.5       32.5      42.0
Physical Contingencies                                             0.6        1.3        1.9
Price Contingencies                                                0.6        2.0       2.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                   10.8       35.8      46.6
Taxes                                                                 0.6          -       0.6
Project Cost, net of taxes                                           10.2       35.8      46.0
Estimated Financing Plan:
US$M             %
IDA                                                                               33.0           71
NORAD                                                                             11.2           24
Goverrnent                                                                         2.4            5
TOTAL                                                                             46.6          100
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
Fiscal Year Ending June 30 (USS million)
Year                            1995      1996       1997       1998       1999       2000      2001
Annual                                      3.3       6.6        8.0        6.9        5.0        3.2
Cumulative                                  3.3       9.9       17.9       24.8       29.8       33.0
% of Loan
Economic Rate of Return:                Not applicable. To be calculated as part of project design
consultancies.
Staff Appraisal Report:                 13853-ZA
Map:                                    IBRD No 26587



ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Chapter 1: SECTOR BACKGROUND
A       Country Background
1.1   Zambia's economy has been in decline since the mid-1970s, as evidenced by Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) growth which fell from 3.7 percent per annum in the early 1970s to an average of only
1.1 percent during the 1974-90 period. In response to falling copper prices and deteriorating terms of
trade, the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) during the 1970s and 1980s undertook
substantial borrowing to the extent that Zambia's debt is now one of the highest in the world relative to
national output and exports. Sporadic attempts at reform during the 1980s foundered, public sector
intervention in the economy discouraged private and local initiatives, and by 1990 Zambia was
classified as a low income country.
1.2    Over the past four years Zambia has instituted and vigorously pursued an ambitious national
program of economic reform. The present government, which came to power in 1991, has dismantled
nearly all price and exchange rate controls, eliminated import and export licensing, decontrolled
interest rates, lowered and compressed tariff rates and brought inflation down to manageable levels.
Comprehensive programs of parastatal privatization and civil service reform have been initiated. While
preparing the way for increased private investment, Government has moved to increase efficiency as
the primary short term means to boost productivity. However, the success of the reform program
overall will depend not only on efficiency improvements, but also on economic diversification and
expansion. Infrastructure has a fundamental role to play in creating an enabling environment for such
growth and development.
1.3   The ability of GRZ to sustain its sweeping program of reforms will, in Zambia's newly
democratic system, depend upon continuing political support engendered by concrete results. The most
direct expression of these results will be improvements in living standards, which have been declining
in real terms since 1970. Key policy initiatives intended to produce these improvements include
rehabilitation and extension of infrastructure and services, devolution of responsibility and authority
from central to local government, and reform of distorted land markets and cumbersome delivery
systems. Current estimates indicate that annual GDP growth rates of five percent could be attained
through higher productivity and increased investment.
1.4   Reform efforts are proceeding throughout all sectors of the Zambian economy. All of these
efforts face common constraints:
(a)   the accumulation over more than two decades of extensive, inappropriate policies and
regulations;
(b)    deteriorating capacity of existing investments to support economic activities; and
(c)   limited human and financial resources with which to implement new policies,
rehabilitate existing systems and extend sustainable services to the majority low income
population.
Even short term gains in efficiency and productivity in all economic sectors will depend to a significant
degree upon successful resolution of these common constraints.



-2 -
B        The Urban Context
1.5    Overview. Zambia is the third most highly urbanized country in sub-Saharan Africa. Out of a
total of 8.3 million residents (1992 World Bank Atlas), 42 percent or nearly 3.5 million are estimated
to live in urban areas. Over 60 percent live along the line of rail which connects Livingstone in the
South with Ndola in the northern Copperbelt region. In the 1990 census (the last detailed count taken),
Lusaka, the capital and largest city, had a population of 870,000. The key Copperbelt cities of Ndola
and Kitwe each had populations of over 400,000.
1.6    During the 1960s and 1970s, the production and export of copper led to the expansion of the
urban economy. Zambia experienced high levels of rural-urban migration as Zambians sought to
benefit from urban-based employment opportunities and subsidized food and infrastructure. However,
the decline in the economy eroded many of the benefits of urban living and the Zambia Poverty
Assessment (Report No. 12985-ZA dated November 30, 1994) estimates that up to 40 percent of the
urban population currently lives below the poverty line. Although outmigration has not occurred
commensurate with urban economic decline, urban growth rates have slowed from a rate of 5.8 percent
between 1969 and 1990 to 3.7 percent per annum for the period between 1980 and 1990. Urban
growth today is thus a function of natural growth, on the basis of which it can be predicted that there
will be more than five million Zambians living in urban areas by the year 2000.
1.7    Two central themes arise from the copper-based development of Zambia's cities. First was the
underlying assumption dating back to the colonial period that Zambia should remain essentially rural
and that towns should not become a permanent home for the majority of workers. From the outset
then, legal tenure and the provision of housing or amenities for non-formal residents were not
priorities. In practice, rigid regulations governing land use directed organic growth to informal
settlements. Over time these residents have become the majority and currently comprise nearly 60
percent of all city dwellers. Consistent with past policies, this majority has limited or no access to
formal sources of potable water, sanitary means of solid and human waste disposal, and basic health
and educational services. This in turn makes them prone to environmental health risks such as cholera,
typhoid and dysentery.
1.8   Second, in the period after Independence, it was assumed that copper export earnings could
support sophisticated infrastructure for those who would be Zambia's permanent urban dwellers. Most
of Zambia's urban productive and infrastructure capacity in use today was created during the boom
years of 1965-74, is costly to maintain and operate, and restricted to formal business and settlement
areas. A consequence of this historical development is that Zambia's cities are now spatially
segregated, with dilapidated, often inappropriate infrastructure for which costs are not recovered from
consumers. Cost recovery has not been emphasized; for example, even as late as 1979, residents in
council housing were consuming 200 liters of water per capita per day without paying for it.
Furthermore, urban planning continues to be captured by the regulatory framework of these standards.
These themes therefore suggest that the challenge in the urban sector is to reconceptualize the planning
and provision of urban infrastructure, to improve incentives for its efficient operation and management,
and ensure that all future investments are driven by what consumers want and are willing to pay for,
rather than by central planning processes.



1.9    Urban Infrastructure. The decline of urban services and infrastructure can be directly linked to
the decline in productivity of the urban formal sector, which in turn has a reinforcing negative impact
on the potential growth of the urban economy. Industrialists for example have cited the lack of basic
urban infrastructure as hampering growth, while the demand for extension and rehabilitation of urban
services and infrastructure far exceeds available resources. Since 1989 local government capital
investments have decreased by almost 80 percent in real terms in the 12 municipalities for which data
are available. Where investments have taken place the focus has tended to be on building new
infrastructure rather than on rehabilitation and maintenance. Little attention has been given to the
sustainability of such investments, and given the cost of the improvements being undertaken, few funds
remain for expansion or even maintenance. Furthermore, the strengthening of existing urban
infrastructure addresses only a part of the problem. The Zambia Poverty Assessment illustrates the
effect on the poor urban majority who, in the face of decreasing wages and employment, must invest
more resources in terms of time and money to compensate for the absent or deteriorating services.
1.10   Urban Policy Development. GRZ's primary policy initiative to date in the urban sector has
been the devolution of responsibility and authority to local governments. Within months of assuming
office in 1991, GRZ passed the Local Government Act (LGA) which substantially increases the
administrative and financial autonomy of the country's 22 city and municipal governments. Central
government transfers of domestic revenues to local governments have virtually ceased, despite
concurrent expenditures on their functions. However, before councils can be held fully responsible,
central ministry powers and obligations contained in the LGA need to be changed. For example, the
LGA states grants must be provided and thus does not currently reflect the government's intention to
eliminate such grants. Other conflicts include central government control over civil service staffing and
remuneration at the local level. Nonetheless, while the Ministry of Local Government and Housing
(MLGH) retains important and possibly conflicting regulatory functions under the LGA, the main
responsibility for planning and implementing urban development now rests with Zambia's local
governments. Technical assistance provided as part of the Planning Management and Capital
Programming subcomponent will lay the foundation for the development of a comprehensive urban
policy and strategy, including changes as needed to the legal and regulatory framework.
C        Urban Water and Sanitation
1.11   As indicated, at Independence Zambia inherited and initially managed to maintain core urban
infrastructure built to high standards. As the country's economy deteriorated, however, maintenance of
this infrastructure has been deferred to the point where many urban water and sewerage systems are
now on the verge of collapse. This decline in urban services has adversely affected all sectors,
including the investment in and development of the private sector that is essential to the growth of the
economy. Throughout the country, due to systemic failures, individuals and firms are increasingly
forced to provide their own water supply, sanitation and other infrastructure, and to bear the
corresponding costs. This represents a significant impediment to the growth and prosperity of these
firms, and where they compete with firms that operate in an environment of adequate infrastructure and
services, to put them at a competitive disadvantage.
1.12   The impact of the deteriorating urban services has been most severe for the 40 percent of the
urban population living in poverty, who bear disproportionate financial and health costs associated with
poor water and sanitation. While existing supplies are directed to upper and high income consumers



- 4 -
who do not apparently appear to pay the full cost of the services, lower income residents in informal
settlements appear to pay excessively high prices, in terms of cash and time, for informal access to low
quality water. Many of theses costs, such as those associated with time spent in water collection and
risks to health and personal safety, are predominantly borne by women. Perhaps one of the most
devastating impacts of the decay in urban infrastructure, with particular impact on the urban poor, is
the steady increase in waterborne diseases. Outbreaks of cholera have been recorded in 11 urban
centers in recent years and serious infrastructure maintenance and operational deficiencies have been
identified in the 22 cities and towns that comprise virtually the entire urban population of the country.
Household surveys in poor areas indicate that the current water supply facilities represent neither what
the poor want nor what they are willing to pay for. These same surveys identify potable water supply
as the foremost priority for improvement.
1.13   Water Policy Development. While developments in the water sector are representative of a
wider array of national policy initiatives affecting the urban sector, efforts to rationalize the policy
framework and clarify responsibilities are farther along than in most sub-sectors related to urban
infrastructure. To overcome a host of problems, a Programme Coordination Unit (PCU) was
established in 1993 with the task of recommending to GRZ how best to reorganize the water supply and
sanitation sector. The PCU, which reports to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Energy and
Water Development (MEWD), is composed of the MEWD, MLGH, National Commission for
Development Planning, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources,
Environmental Council of Zambia, National Council of Scientific Research, Ministry of Works and
Supply, and Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries. The specific mandate of the PCU is to:
(a)    recommend policy reforms;
(b)    clarify the respective responsibilities of the various actors in the sector;
(c)    propose an appropriate framework for planning, development, operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure in the sector; and
(d)    determine how best to strengthen, restructure, and/or reform the various institutions
with responsibilities for service provision.
The PCU is supported by a donor-financed secretariat (financed by NORAD and GTZ), the Water
Supply and Sanitation Development Group (WSDG), to provide technical and policy support.
1.14   Early in 1994, Cabinet formally accepted a set of sector principles intended to serve as
guidelines in the formulation of proposals for the reorganization of the sector. These include:
(a)    separation of water resource management from water supply and sanitation;
(b)    separation of regulatory and executive functions;
(c)    devolution of authority to local authorities and private enterprises;
(d)    full cost recovery in the long run;
(e)    human resource development leading to more effective institutions;
(f)    use of technology appropriate to local conditions; and
(g)    increased GRZ priority and budget spending to the sector.
1.15   In December 1994, a Cabinet Memorandum was passed which clarified the organizational
structure and respective roles of the different entities involved. Adoption by GRZ of a sector strategy
which defines sector restructuring was a condition for second tranche release under the Economic and



Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC)(Cr.2577-ZA); the condition was met by Cabinet's approval of this
memorandum. Key elements of this strategy are as follows:
*  First, the PCU would be transformed into the National Water and Sanitation Council
(NWASCO) answerable to MEWD. This statutory body would be responsible for (i)
development of policies and standards; (ii) preparation of strategic plans and investment
programs; and (iii) monitoring and regulating water supply and sanitation service delivery
and the organizations providing these services.
*  Second, MLGH would be responsible for all executive functions related to water supply
and sanitation. It would assist councils in the performance of their water and sanitation
delivery functions in the urban, peri-urban and rural areas. Capital development funds
(GRZ and external) for water supply and sanitation would be channeled through the
recently established Department of Infrastructure and Support Services (DISS) in MLGH.
DISS would facilitate the design, programming and implementation of local authority
infrastructure projects, and ensure that local authorities have access to the resources needed
to construct and manage critical infrastructure on a sustainable basis.
*  Third, feasibility studies and pilot programs for establishing commercially oriented water
supply and sanitation utilities would be commissioned in the Copperbelt and Northwestern
Province to represent urban and rural conditions, with the former to be supported under
this project (para 2.16).
D        Bank Experience in the Urban and Water Supply Sectors
1.16   Bank experience in both the urban and water sectors in Zambia has been limited. Bank
experience in the urban sector is restricted to the Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Site and Services
Project (Ln. 1057-ZA) which was approved in late 1974 and completed at the end of 1981. This
project was one of the Bank's first urban initiatives in Africa, and was implemented during a period of
economic difficulty in Zambia, as copper prices dropped 40 percent in the midst of the international oil
crisis and escalating regional conflicts. Nevertheless, the Lusaka project met its physical development
objectives and established a system of community participation that, while no longer current today, was
a model in the urban development field for that era.
1.17   The Lusaka project eventually provided more than 30,000 new and improved homesites
(communal water supply facilities, etc.) in the informal settlements of the capital city and established a
significant cadre of Zambian professionals with expertise in low-cost housing, many of whom remain in
government employment. The project did not, however, achieve financially sustainable operations and
associated institutional reforms were not fully realized. Among the lessons learned, positive and
negative, are the following. First, the presence of a relatively large concentration of houses replete
with basic infrastructure in Lusaka led to the emergence of economic activities in the informal sector.
Further, as was highlighted in the Zambia Poverty Assessment, the granting of legal status to
participating compounds in the project enabled them to become centers of economic activity which
persist today. The significance of regularizing land tenure is thus a critical lesson learned from the
Lusaka project. Second, the delivery of public services failed for a variety of reasons, but most
fundamentally because:



(i)    water supply service levels were not based on what residents wanted;
(ii)    technical norms were often unrealistic;
(iii)    community organizations were expected to operate and maintain facilities even
though they were not consulted during planning and implementation;
(iv)    cost recovery was through a consolidated service charge for water, without an
effective system of sanctions against defaulters, other than to cut water supply
at communal taps (one for 25 houses); and
(v)    apathy of city council officials, due in part to confusion over who was
responsible, exacerbated low cost recovery.
1.18   Bank experience in the water and sanitation sector in Zambia is equally sparse. In this sector,
the Rural Water Supply Project Credit (Cr. 1362-ZA) was intended to provide piped water to 29,000
people in four main towns and point system water supply to an additional 110,000 people in six rural
districts in Northern Zambia through the construction of wells and boreholes. The physical objectives
of the project were largely met, although implementation was hampered by IDA's suspension of
disbursements to Zambia from 1987-91. The project was deemed unsuccessful and unsustainable,
largely because GRZ failed to impose the financial control systems and tariff increases necessary to
cover operating and maintenance costs. Individual districts had little incentive to improve their revenue
collection because all revenues were credited to central government. A positive outcome, not part of
the project, was that the project enabled IDA to assist in the initial GTZ-funded institutional study for
reorganization of the water sector which has led to the policies currently being introduced by GRZ.
1.19   Although not directly a part of Bank projects, several innovations in intermediate sewerage
technologies were attempted in the 1950s and 1960s in the Zambian cities. Sewered aquaprivies were
established in low income council housing on the premise that residents consuming less water could be
serviced by lower cost low volume wastewater disposal systems. However, a World Bank review of
these technologies in 1978 indicated that as there was no check on water consumption (owing to a lack
of enforcement of tariffs), water consumption was excessive, which completely destroyed the validity
of the "intermediate" solutions. Seventeen years later these houses have virtually no water supply
because the public water supply system has almost collapsed, and most residents have reverted to
primitive pit latrines.
1.20   With the benefit of hindsight, and experience from the Lusaka project, the following lessons
can be learned. First, the underlying assumption that "appropriate technology" could be delivered
through existing operationally inefficient institutions did not hold up to experience. Second, the
presumption that the poor would be satisfied with a centrally determined level of service proved
incorrect. The poor, in fact, were investing time and cash to acquire privately provided water, and had
definite preferences as to service levels and willingness to pay. Third, experiences from diverse
countries suggest that under suitable incentive structures, community-based organizations in low
income areas are often more successful in tackling local operational problems, such as system
breakdowns, and recovering operation and maintenance costs, when compared to large water and
sanitation utilities.



E        Strategy and Approach to the Sector
1.21   The objective of the Bank's country assistance strategy (last discussed in conjunction with the
Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2577-ZA), dated March 1994) is to assist GRZ in its
efforts to achieve sustainable economic growth and thereby reduce poverty. Although the broad-based
reforms adopted by GRZ have been both courageous and significant (para 1.2), the reforms have been
insufficient to secure the level and nature of supply response required to achieve the overriding goal of
decreasing poverty. To assist GRZ, the Bank's overall strategy for FY96-98 is to encourage
sustainable economic growth by continuing to support macroeconomic stabilization and structural
reform policies, promoting further private sector development and greater public sector efficiency, and
increasing direct assistance to the poor and vulnerable groups. With respect to infrastructure, key
elements of this strategy are to:
(a)    improve the enabling environment for private sector growth through investments in
infrastructure and human resources;
(b)    decentralize and restructure the delivery of infrastructure and services to enhance
efficiency and sustainability; and
(c)    remove subsidies and encourage private sector participation in the provision of public
services.
This project would help to remove constraints to economic growth and diversification by addressing
issues of public service reform with particular emphasis on devolution of responsibility to local levels,
adoption of demand-based approaches to infrastructure planning and implementation, improvements to
revenue generation and cost recovery for municipal services overall, and development of human
resources.
1.22   Strategic objectives of the project include creation of commercially-oriented water and
sanitation utilities, near term improvements in critical urban infrastructure and services with particular
emphasis upon laying the groundwork for service improvements to the largely unserved urban
majority, in concert with the institutional and policy reforms necessary for equitable and sustainable
sectoral growth in the medium term. Water supply and sanitation have been accorded the highest
priority for near term rehabilitation, on the one hand because of direct links to health and productivity,
the extent of the population currently unserved, and the significant fixed investments currently in
danger of collapse; and on the other because of the progress already made in legislative reform and on
the policy agenda. Lessons learned from efforts in water supply and sanitation to encourage greater
use of commercial practices, foster accountability of service providers to service consumers, and
manage infrastructure at the lowest appropriate level, will in turn be used to shape the medium-term
approach to the provision of urban infrastructure and services overall.
1.23   To achieve these overall objectives, the Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project
(URWSP) aims particularly to assist the participating urban local authorities to:
(a)    efficiently and equitably manage existing infrastructure and services, based on what
residents want and are willing to pay for;



- 8 -
(b)    provide incentives for employees and organizations responsible for operations and
maintenance of urban services to work in accordance with transparent and consistent
performance criteria;
(c)    foster accountability of civic planners and service providers by ensuring that key
decisions on service level choices are made at the lowest appropriate level; and
(d)    test out institutional processes through which future investment programs represent
value for money for all service users in urban towns, and are effective in checking
urban environmental deterioration.
1.24   Consistent with this phased approach, it will be important that planning and policy-related
decisions await the completion of the relevant project investigations. Thus each participating local
council will be required to agree, as part of the subsidiary legal agreement, that they will protect
dwellings and structures within community compounds and informal settlements from demolition,
unless this demolition is required to provide essential urban services. However, such demolition would
be subject to prior review by IDA and must be conducted in line with IDA resettlement policies.
Under the Planning, Management and Capital Programming technical assistance, the "as built" plans of
each council will be reviewed, particularly as they have deviated or invalidated structure plans, sectoral
master plans, and existing provisions of the Town and Country Planning Act. Findings will be
discussed with all parties, and development plans, zoning ordinances and other related regulations will
be revised accordingly.
1.25   Once the medium-term framework is in place, a follow-on project is envisioned that would
extend the lessons learned in water supply and sanitation to the provision of urban infrastructure and
services overall.
F        Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.26   The range and complexity of problems facing urban areas clearly point to the need for
integrated and appropriate urban and water policy frameworks that would not only guide the transition
from subsidized infrastructure and devolution of service delivery from the central government to local
entities, but also address appropriate directions for the medium and longer term. Given the
fragmentation of efforts to date, IDA is well placed to assist GRZ in the development of an integrated
approach involving the establishment of an appropriate policy framework, rehabilitation of essential
urban services, and improvements in urban efficiency as well as managerial and financial capacity.
IDA's involvement in a range of related sectors (roads, health services, education, poverty alleviation)
would be key in playing this integrating role. The project further builds upon and facilitates
implementation of the overall policy framework for water supply and sanitation, the development of
which was supported by the last adjustment credit (para 1.15). By beginning to address the needs of
urban residents who currently fall outside the formal structure, the project would also help to improve
the level and sustainability of services to the poor.



9-
G       Related Donor Activities
1.27   As noted previously, the German aid agency GTZ and the Norwegian aid agency NORAD
have had long-standing relationships in the water sector in Zambia (para 1.13); they are particularly
active at the level of MEWD in providing technical support as part of the Secretariat. They and several
donors have been or are involved at the local and/or community level, including UNCHS, JICA and
Irish Aid. There have also been a number of NGO initiatives in the water sector, among them World
Vision and Catholic Charities. The donor community has been less involved in the urban sector. The
British aid agency, ODA, has just begun an large-scale initiative with MLGH aimed at improving the
accounting and financial skills at the local government level with the Local Government Support
Project (LOGOS). The proposed IDA credit has been designed to complement and build upon the
ongoing donor support being provided in the water and urban sectors in Zambia.



- 10-
Chapter 2:    THE PROJECT
A        Project Origin and Formulation
2.1    The virtual cessation of subsidies which followed the 1991 revision of the Local Government
Act (LGA) (para 1.10) left Zambia's local councils -- already incapable of providing basic services to
their informally settled, low income majority populations -- unable to prevent the rapid deterioration of
existing urban infrastructure. Outbreaks in urban areas of cholera and other infectious diseases related
to inadequate safe water supply prompted GRZ, in late 1993, to request IDA assistance to effect short-
term rehabilitation of critical urban water and sanitation systems, and delineate more extensive reforms
required to promote equity and local self sufficiency in infrastructure and service provision,
maintenance and operations.
2.2    The project has been formulated in light of GRZ's broader reform objectives including poverty
alleviation, decentralization of authority and responsibility, encouragement of private sector and local
initiatives, and promotion of efficient sectoral economic performance. The project's design explicitly
recognizes the immediate need to address critical water and sanitation system rehabilitation
requirements while initiating the longer term reform processes, without which broader investments in
urban infrastructure and services would be unsustainable. With respect to long-term water supply
development, appropriate consultations have been held with the WSDG, the PCU support unit. Project
design has been guided by extensive consultation with stakeholders, including results from the Bank-
supported Zambia Poverty Assessment and follow-up interviews with residents in peri-urban areas.
Formal consultation with MLGH and all local councils, including both elected and appointed officials,
proposed for participation in the project has been achieved through a series of workshops and
participatory exercises at the community level. This process will continue throughout project
implementation and phased infrastructure design and investments will be tied to informed,
representative decisions achieved over time through broad consultation.
2.3    Formulation of the project has emphasized development of capacity within existing ministerial,
council and community structures. Overall project supervision will be achieved through DISS in
MLGH (para 1.15), with the 10 participating councils and their constituent communities playing the
key roles in formulating the designs and reforms necessary to sustain local investments. In order to
achieve efficient utilization of resources, the proposed project would be implemented in close
coordination with two streams of relevant donor-financed urban and water supply sectoral efforts. The
former includes the LOGOS Project within MLGH, which seeks to strengthen the local government
capacity and thereby facilitate the devolution of responsibility to the local councils, both urban and
rural; initial activities focus on local government finance, performance appraisal and participatory
planning (para 1.27). The latter includes GTZ and NORAD support to the PCU and its technical arm
the WSDG, first to devise and subsequently implement an integrated water sector policy and program
(paras 1.13-1.15).



B        Project Objectives
2.4    The objectives of the project, to be achieved over five years, are to:
(a)    provide immediate solutions to the most severe water and sewerage infrastructure
deficiencies in nine key urban areas;
(b)    test out community-generated and managed water and sanitation demonstration projects
which meet articulated needs at an affordable price while strengthening local councils'
capacities to support community based initiatives in Lusaka and the participating
Copperbelt councils; and,
(c)    initiate broader institutional and financial reforms required for providing organizational
incentives for investing in, operating and maintaining infrastructure based on residents'
perceived needs and willingness to pay.
C        Project Description
2.5    The overall approach of the project is to address high priority needs of the urban populations
and, based on the lessons learned as each component is structured and implemented, begin the process
of reorienting and restructuring the way infrastructure and services are provided. First, based on the
priority attached to the water sector expressed in various fora by central and local government and by
residents themselves, the project proposes to use water supply as an entry point for developing future
investment programs, initially concentrating on rehabilitation, in formal settlement areas and testing
institutional options in peri-urban, unserviced areas. Both activities focus on a participatory demand-
based approach, and as such, seek to break the persistent cycle of non-payment and inadequate service
provision. Second, technical assistance and studies will be provided to support immediate
improvements in participating council's management capacity and propose alternative methods of
organizing services and evaluating trade-offs. Third, capacity building assistance will look to the
medium-term and outline how future urban policy can avoid mistakes of past policies.
Project Components
2.6    The project comprises three components as follows:
a) water supply and sanitation system rehabilitation (US$28.3 million, 67 percent of total
project base cost);
(b) community-based water and sanitation demonstration projects (US$5.5 million, 13 percent
of total project base cost); and
(c) sectoral and local government reform and capacity building (US$8.2 million, 20 percent of
total project cost).



- 12 -
The project's reform and capacity building component will be carried out in 10 key urban areas,
including the Copperbelt councils of Ndola, Luanshya, Kitwe, Kalulushi, Mufulira and Chingola and
the councils of Lusaka, Kafue, Mazabuka, and Livingstone in the south. Lusaka will not be included in
the rehabilitation component of the project due to significant investment committed by other donors.
Only the Copperbelt councils and Lusaka will initially participate in the demonstration project
component as these projects will require extensive supervision; expansion of this component will be
considered in the course of the mid-term review. Together, the 10 councils participating in the project
serve more than 3.5 million people, and comprise more than 80 percent of Zambia's current urban
population.
Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation (US$28.3 million)
2.7    The rehabilitation component of the project will restore water treatment facilities to design
capacity and ensure potability of water supplied to more than 1.5 million individuals in nine urban
centers as summarized below:
Council           Total Population   Pop. with Household   Estimated    Total Population
(estimate)      Connections          Population      Served
Served by
Standpipes
Chingola                  370,000             207,000           11,000            218,000
Kafue                     200,000             120,000           22,000            142,000
Kalulushi                 150,000              90,000                              90,000
Kitwe                    400,000              127,000          120,000            247,000
Livingstone               120,000              70,000           18,000             88,000
Luanshya                  200,000              50,000                              50,000
Mazabuka                  42,000               11,000           21,000             32,000
Mufulira                  200,000             134,000           20,000            154,000
Ndola                    600,000              348,000          198,000            546,000
TOTAL                   2,282,000           1,157,000          410,000           1,567,000
Restoration of existing treatment facilities to design capacity will increase bulk water supply in the nine
councils by at least 30 percent overall.
2.8    This component of the project was originally based on a government-sponsored consultant
survey in 1993 of the water and sewerage system rehabilitation requirements of 22 urban councils. An
update of this survey was carried out in the second quarter of 1994, sponsored by NORAD. Three
Bank preparation missions during 1994 then evaluated the identified needs with particular emphasis
upon immediate requirements to prevent the collapse of existing facilities, sustainability and the degree



- 13 -
to which proposed investments address priority needs of the council populations. As a result, two
levels of priority rehabilitation measures have been identified, as follows.
2.9    Level I rehabilitation requirements comprise about two thirds of proposed investment and will
address the most urgent, public health-related deficiencies in the water and sewage treatment works of
the nine participating councils. These urgent improvements mainly include rehabilitation and
replacement of treatment equipment and facilities leading to immediate improvements in the potability
and restoration of bulk water supply and the reduction of the most critical water contamination. Level I
improvements also include training in leak detection and remedial measures. Level 11 rehabilitation
will focus mainly upon distribution systems and sewerage. This work will be designed and
implemented in light of each council's performance in enacting necessary reforms and based upon
thorough consultation with consumers regarding design and pricing alternatives, as well as the results
of the environmental analyses. More complete descriptions of the works to be carried out in each of
the participating councils are contained in Annex 2.1.
2.10   A program of three consultancies will support the sustainable rehabilitation of water and
sewerage systems in the participating councils. The first two, described in this paragraph below, will
provide short-term and transitional assistance, while the third (para 2.16(a)) provides the basis for
determining sustainable, commercially-oriented solutions for managing water supply and sanitation
services. NORAD will finance both the detailed design of the two levels of rehabilitation requirements
(a), and the construction supervision, management and training contracts for a period of two years (b).
The latter will provide a transition period during which appropriate long term solutions can be
evaluated and implemented. These include:
(a)    design of Level I and II rehabilitation requirements including acquisition of equipment
and training in leak detection. This package of assistance is scheduled to commence in
the third quarter of 1995. The TOR, developed with GRZ, were agreed and finalized
at negotiations' . Level I design work, for which extensive design and consultative
work has already taken place, will be completed as quickly as possible in order to
address public health risks. Level II design work, involving mainly sewerage, will be
guided by a process of consultation regarding design alternatives, affordability, and
community priorities. This consultancy includes an environmental review of the
proposed works, including specification of and a program for taking any mitigation
measures required.
(b)    construction supervision contract for the duration of the rehabilitation work.
(c)    management and training (MT) contracts for a period of two years beyond the
construction to ensure that rehabilitated systems are operating properly, local staff are
recruited and trained, and a smooth transition is made in each participating council to
new management systems. These contracts, the detailed TOR for which will be drawn
up through the design assistance package, will be closely coordinated with the study of
commercially oriented management options (para 2.16(a)).
All TOR for the project, other than those to be developed in the course of the described consultancies, are
available in the project file.



- 14 -
A condition of effectiveness for the IDA credit is Government's meeting all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the NORAD Grant Agreement.
Community-Based Demonstration Projects (US$5.5 million)
2.11   This component of the project is expected to be implemented in about seven peri-urban
communities, and to extend water supply to at least 250,000 low income people in Lusaka and the
Copperbelt councils. The component has the dual objectives of developing sustainable water supply
and sanitation systems in low income urban communities and of testing institutional mechanisms and
linkages within and between local councils and participating communities.
2.12   Preparation of this component has built upon lessons learned with previous upgrading projects
in Zambia and with approaches to community-based water and sanitation in other countries in which
the Bank has been active (see Annex 2.2). A process of systematic client consultation during project
preparation was conducted and resulted in two broad conclusions which have shaped the demonstration
component design. First, community demands for differentiated service levels can only be
accommodated with a sufficiently flexible, consultative preparation process. Second, the project seeks
to test out institutional arrangements that provide incentives for both communities to exercise choice
and local authorities to respond to these choices.
2.13   These conclusions have led to the following design principles for projects proposed for funding
under this component:
(a)    projects must be community-generated; communities should have a choice in the
design, implementation, monitoring and management of the project;
(b)    projects must be within the technical, financial and managerial capacity ot
ommmunitiea; these capacities will vary among communities, but in all cases an
economic test based on demand considerations (e.g., based on services they want and
are willing to pay for) will play a screening role;
(c)    councils must have access to technical assistance to enable them to respond to and
effectively participate in processes at the comrnunity level; sustainability of the project
approach hinges upon this principle and the demonstration component will build upon
institutional support efforts initiated within councils through UNCHS and ODA
projects, and intermediation support from the project; and
(d)    each participating council should participate fully in the design of component
implementation procedures and in defining appropriate roles; as with communities, the
capacities of councils will vary and their roles in the demonstration project must be
consistent with available resources and with the policy objective of delegating
responsibilities to the lowest appropriate level.
2.14  In order to support capacity building at the community level and strengthen institutional
linkages between communities and councils, assistance will be provided by experienced NGOs in the
action planning process leading to demonstration project implementation and operations. In each of the
participating councils, the demonstration project planning process will establish the basis for broader
participatory planning for multi-sectoral service provision in low income communities in future urban



- 15 -
investment programs. The project will support contracts with NGOs for this purpose. To strengthen
this learning by doing approach, the Bank will review the first technical plans from each participating
municipality as a condition of disbursement for each subproject. A fuller description of the
demonstration component is contained in Annex 2.2.
Reform and Capacity Building (US$8.3 million)
2.15   An integrated program of policy and institutional reform and capacity building is required to
achieve the proposed project's objective of promoting sustainable, locally-driven and managed
development processes. The training, data gathering and analysis, and planning needed to ensure
establishment of informed, decentralized decision making processes will be supported through two sets
of capacity building assistance. The first set, which includes an assessment of water system
management options as well as water sector resource and policy studies, addresses issues and
requirements specific to the water sector. The second set provides support initially to strengthen local
government capacity in the short-run and then, building in part on lessons learned in water supply and
sanitation, to provide the foundation for improved management of urban infrastructure and services
overall. TOR and implementation schedules for all consultancies and studies were finalized during
negotiations, except where the TOR are to be developed in the course of other studies as noted below.
2.16   Water and Sewerage Management.
(a)    Examine water system management options for the participating councils in
coordination with the design activities described in para 2. 10(a) above and in
fulfillment of the Cabinet decision to investigate the feasibility of commercially oriented
water supply and sanitation organizations (para 1.15). The Cabinet memorandum
directed PCU to undertake feasibility studies on the establishment of such organizations
in the Copperbelt and Northwestern province; consistent with the urban focus of this
project, this assistance will provide the basis for implementing the commercially
oriented management structures specified in the Copperbelt. Among other things, this
study will ensure that each council's rehabilitation works are designed and implemented
within a framework of tariffs and incentive structures that is financially and
economically feasible. Because the study is intended to pilot the concept for other
areas, IDA and PCU will jointly supervise the consultants' work. Given its GRZ
mandate and its broad representation, the PCU will provide a forum for review and
consideration of proposals developed in the course of the study. These TOR,
developed with GRZ, in consultation with PCU, were agreed and finalized at
negotiations.
(b)    Execute water sector policy studies necessary to integrate urban water management
with national and regional strategies. First priority will be given to a study of the water
resources and environmental management requirements of the Kafue River system
along which the majority of the councils participating in the project are located. The
objective of this study is to: (i) establish a monitoring system which will provide the
data needed to develop a comprehensive environmental and water resource
management plan (including the provision of equipment to determine quantity and
quality of water at key points of the river system); (ii) determine water needs (quantity
and quality) of all users in the Kafue River Basin; and (iii) draft TOR for an
environmental and urban resource management study, as well as the management of the



- 16 -
monitoring system. The consultant shall draft TOR for the study using, as a point of
departure, the proposal prepared by the Environmental Council of Zambia. Particular
attention will be given, especially in the Copperbelt, to the effects of mining and related
industries upon the river system. Building upon this initial effort, funding is also
provided to undertake similar studies in other districts with significant urban
populations and/or major industrial activities. Funding is further provided to support
continuing input by local governments and communities in the development of national
water management strategies and policies.
2.17   Planning. Programming and Sectoral Strengthening. The key to sustainable locally managed
urban development in Zambia is the building of capacity within local councils to plan, finance, operate
and maintain infrastructure and services. The demands brought about by the simultaneous devolution of
authority and cessation of central subventions to local authorities have put additional pressure on
existing management capacity (see para 1.10). (For a discussion of financial and management
constraints in particular, see Annexes 2.3 and 2.4.) To meet the need for immediate management
improvements associated with water system rehabilitation and to assist participating councils to develop
the broader management capacity required for councils to provide infrastructure and services over the
medium term, the project includes two assistance packages as follows.
a) Immediate Local Government Capacity Strengthening. A significant technical assistance
and training activity has been designed to support immediate improvements in participating
councils' management capacity. This activity, financed under a project preparation facility
(PPF), is scheduled to commence in the second quarter of 1995. Emphasis will be placed
upon delineation of Revenue Enhancement Action Plans (REAP) and Systems Improvement
Action Plans (SIAP). Satisfactory implementation of these plans will constitute a significant
benchmark in evaluating performance particularly as related to Level II investments under
the proposed project. Close coordination with the recently initiated LOGOS project will
ensure significant improvements in council management in the very near term.
b) Planning, Management and Capital Programming. This three year package of phased
technical assistance and training will provide the central mechanism for integrating the
project's infrastructure investments, institutional strengthening and sectoral reform, as well
as lay the foundation for a comprehensive urban policy and strategy. The TOR, developed
with GRZ, were agreed and finalized at negotiations. Two multidisciplinary regional teams
-- one serving Lusaka and the southern councils, the other based in the Copperbelt -- will
assist participating councils to learn from and incorporate the consultative planning
processes and attendant institutional reforms developed through the demonstration and
rehabilitation components of the project into broader urban planning and capital investment
programming processes. Improvements in financial and systems management initiated
through the PPF-financed activity described above will feed into and be built upon in this
package of assistance. Close coordination will be achieved with the LOGOS project,
WSDG activities, UNCHS-supported work on development of a national housing policy
and other related sectoral efforts.
2.18   Recognizing the varying capacities of the participating councils, assistance will focus upon
establishing representative and equitable processes rather than upon producing a predetermined list of
consultant-driven reports and plans. Particular emphasis will be placed upon ensuring that all key
actors in council jurisdictions, including elected and appointed officials and community and private



- 17 -
sector leaders, are systematically involved in all aspects of the planning and programming processes to
be established.
2.19   Assistance will be provided to the DISS (for organization chart, see Annex 2.5) within MLGH
to establish the monitoring and overall capital programming systems which are central to the role of
this newly established department. Short term specialist assistance will also be available in the areas of
legislative reform, geographic information systems, environmental planning and regulation, and other
areas as required to define and proceed with the urban sectoral reform agenda. Some technical
assistance in the form of short term consultancies related to procurement, disbursements and accounting
and auditing will provided to the DISS to assist in the management of the IDA credit. Particular
emphasis will be placed upon counterpart relationships, both with government officials and with local
consultants, to ensure the transfer of skills throughout the course of the assistance.
D        Project Implementation
2.20   The project seeks to build institutional, financial and technical capacity in the project areas so
that future urban investment programs are developed through a decentralized, demand-driven planning
process. The project's immediate investment focus on water supply and sanitation infrastructure is not
only because water and wastewater deficiencies are recognized as among the most severe service
problems, but also because a single-sector investment program enables the project to test out what
works and what doesn't work with respect to institutional and financial arrangements before proceeding
to multi-sectoral issues. However, for this approach to be effective, all components must be
implemented on time, and given the many interlocking relationships among components,
implementation must be guided by a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system.
2.21   The project implementation schedule (Annex 2.6) shows key decision points and points of
intersection among the consultancies and investment decisions. Among these, the analysis of tariffs
under the water system management options study (para 2.16(a)) and the REAP under the PPF for
Local Government Strengthening (para 2.17(a)) will feed into the analysis of the appropriate
institutional structure for commercially oriented water supply and sanitation organizations. A decision
on the Level II investments will depend on their appropriateness given the business plan developed in
the management options study.
2.22   The M&E system (for suggested format see Annex 2.7) will be developed to provide the
necessary reference points for: (i) a "doing and learning" process via the water and sanitation
initiatives taken under the rehabilitation and demonstration project components, in which the quality of
technical assistance and investment progress could be monitored and tracked; and (ii) building up an
efficient process of collecting information, consulting with stakeholders, training and technical
assistance, which in turn will help to ensure that the design of future urban investments are cost-
effective and responsive to user's needs. The M&E system will be an initial output under the technical
assistance for Planning, Management and Capital Programming (para 2.17(b)). It will track
quantitative information showing financial and physical progress in achieving project milestones, as
well as qualitative or process aspects to identify problems in the quality of implementation so that
appropriate changes could be made when necessary.
2.23   The DISS will have overall responsibility for coordinating implementation of the project and
for ensuring that appropriate procedures (e.g. in regards to procurement and disbursements) are



- 18 -
followed and reporting done. The establishment of this unit was agreed in the Cabinet Memorandum
on the water sector passed in December 1994 (para 1.15), and the full complement of positions is being
finalized. The staffing plan, position description, key positions and timetable for doing so were
discussed and agreed during negotiations. The filling of key positions will be a condition of
effectiveness. As noted (para 2.19), short-term technical assistance will be provided under the project
to help DISS develop the internal systems and procedures related to procurement, disbursements and
accounting/auditing.
2.24   As a major objective of the project is to begin the process of decentralizing the decision-making
process surrounding the provision of urban services, most of the project implementation will be carried
out at the local level by local and community authorities. Therefore, in addition to the customary
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) signed between the Association and the Government, subsidiary
legal agreements between the Government and lower levels of Government will be required. At the
first level, MOF/MLGH will sign subsidiary agreements with the local councils which outline their
responsibilities in regard to the three components of the project. In regards to the community-based
subprojects where the local councils have first line responsibility for implementation (likely to be the
case for smaller subprojects such as borehole drilling, where total costs are low), a legal agreement will
be signed between the local council and the contractor who will carry out the works. In all cases,
however, the community will be responsible for the conceptualization of the subprojects, underscoring
the demand-driven aspect of the component.
2.25   Project supervision will consist of structured reviews undertaken at key decision points, not less
than on an annual basis. All elements of the project other than the crucial Level I rehabilitation water
treatment and sanitation facilities, the requirements for which have been thoroughly studied through
two NORAD-financed consultancies and three IDA missions, will be designed and implemented in
accordance with this process. The supervision plan, included in Annex 2.8 along with the Table of
Contents of the Project Implementation Plan, shows the approximate timing of missions, key issues to
be addressed, and the required skills mix. The most critical events in project supervision will be the
project launch workshop, the policy seminar, and the mid-term review.
2.26   In addition to the usual activities, the project launch workshop will include an expanded
discussion of fundamental design and management issues. Many of these issues will, by the time of
credit effectiveness, have been defined and examined in detail through the three project design and
technical activities (NORAD and IDA PPF-financed), PCU activities and the LOGOS project. The
completion of the manual, which describes in detail the Project Implementation Plan, a draft of which
was discussed during negotiations, will be a condition of effectiveness.
2.27   The policy seminar is scheduled to be held in July 1996. At this time, the initial results of the
demonstration projects and management options for meeting water supply and sanitation needs will be
reviewed. Specifically, the following items and issues will be discussed and agreed upon during this
seminar: (i) approval of institutional structures for the water sector; (ii) detailed review of the business
plan related to (i); (iii) approval of the tariff structure; (iv) decision on Phase II of the financial
strengthening support to the local governments; and (v) initial assessment of the demonstration
component.
2.28   By December 1997, the time proposed for the mid-term review, the project will have acquired
key information for future urban policy in Zambia, completed key water supply and sanitation
investments, and set in place management structures for commercially viable water and sanitation



- 19 -
utilities. The mid-term review will provide an opportunity to take stock of the water and urban policy
framework, to redefine the remaining investments in the capacity building technical assistance, and
assist GRZ in formulating details of its future investment programs so that local councils take
responsibility for the provision of infrastructural services. At a minimum, the mid-term review will
cover the following:
(i)    Project monitoring system: an evaluation of the M&E system and each participating
council's performance against the established M&E benchmarks;
(ii)    Water supply and sanitation investments: an assessment of the completed works and
the efficacy of the MT contracts, including timing and transition arrangements for
handing over to the entities in (iii) below;
(iii)   Water sector institutional reform: the decisions made and progress achieved in
establishing commercially-oriented water supply and sanitation organization(s) in the
Copperbelt and elsewhere, and implications for overall municipal management;
(iv)   Demonstration projects: an assessment of completed and ongoing projects, including a
decision on whether to expand the program to additional settlements and/or cities, and
how to incorporate lessons learned vis-a-vis demand-based planning and participatory
processes into a wider range of municipal planning management activities;
(v)    Environment: the status of legislative reform and procedures to date for incorporating
environmental concerns and procedures for review into municipal planning and
management;
(vi)   Water resource management: the status of the development of a water resource
strategy and development of baseline data for monitoring water quality and use;
(vii)   Urban legislative reform: a progress report on reforms identified and status of
implementation;
(viii)  Municipal capital investment plans: a review of these plans and an assessment of their
suitability for a follow-on project.



- 20 -
Chapter 3: PROJECT COST
3.1    The total project cost is estimated at ZK30.8 billion (the equivalent of US$46.6 million),
including physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated to comprise
77 percent. A summary of estimated project costs is provided in Table 3.1 and a detailed cost table in
Annex 3.1. Cost estimates are based on preliminary designs of facilities, local and regional
construction experience, and recent quotations for equipment and vehicles. Base prices are based on
price levels at the time of appraisal in June 1994. Physical contingencies have been included for
equipment and related installation under the water and sanitation component, and are estimated at
US$1.9 million or about 10 percent of base costs. Price contingencies of US$2.6 million are estimated
in US dollar terms, based on international inflation rates estimated at 2.2 percent for the project period.
The foreign component of project costs is exempt from taxes; it is estimated that 50 percent of the local
works component (i.e. the non-labor expenditures) will be subject to taxes of 10 percent.
Table 3.1 Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL
A. Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation
Water Supply                                                     2.8        8.7      11.5
Sanitation                                                       2.8        2.8       5.6
TA for water and sewer system management, including              0.9        10.3      11.2
(i) Design of rehabilitation requirements, and
(ii) Construction supervision, management and
training contracts
Sub-total                                                           6.5       21.8      28.3
B. Community-based Demonstration Projects
Community-based projects                                         1.1        3.9       5.0
Institutional Support                                           0.5        0.1       0.6
Sub-total                                                           1.6        4.0       5.6
C. Reform and Capacity-Building
Water Sector:
(i) Study water system management options
(ii) Water Sector Policy Studies                               0.4         1.6       2.0
Water and urban sectors for planning, programming and sectoral reform
(iii) Local government capacity strengthening
(iv) Planning, management and capital programming              0.7        4.1       4.8
Project-related TA (accounting support, audit fees, and        0.2        0.2       0.4
procurement)
Sub-Total                                                           1.3        5.9       7.2
D. PPF Refinancing (related to C (iii) above)                       0.2        0.8       1.0
Total Base Cost                                                     9.5       32.5      42.0
Physical Contingencies                                           0.6        1.3       1.9
Price Contingencies                                              0.6        2.0       2.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                 10.8       35.8      46.6
Taxes                                                               0.6          -       0.6
Project Cost, net of taxes                                         10.2       35.8      46.0



- 21 -
A        Financing Plan
3.2    The project financing plan is presented below:
Table 3.2 Project Finance Plan
IDA      NORA)       GRZ          TOTAL
(US$ Million)
A. Civil Works                               23.7         -         2.4          26.1
B. Consultancies (technical assistance, training,
supervision
of works)
Sub-Total                                    9.3       11.2          -          20.5
TOTAL                                        33.0       11.2        2.4          46.6
3.3    The proposed IDA credit of US$33 million would finance about 71 percent of the total project
costs, net of duties and taxes except as noted (para 3.1), or the equivalent of 92 percent of the estimated
foreign exchange cost of the project. Financing for the remaining total project costs would be provided
by Government (US$2.4 million or five percent) and NORAD (US$11.2 million or 24 percent). While
local governments are not required to make a specific monetary contribution to project costs, their
contribution "in kind" is expected to be considerable in the form of human resources, overheads, and
related labor in the case of the community based projects. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that Government would make adequate budgetary provisions for its share of project costs.
Government has agreed to open a project account in a local commercial bank with an initial amount of
US$100,000 (see para 3.7 for details).
B        Flow of Funds
3.4    The proceeds of the IDA credit would be made available to Government on standard IDA
terms, for a period of 40 years, including 10 years grace. US$23.7 million or about 51 percent of the
credit will be passed on by the central Government to the participating local govermnents for
rehabilitation of the water and sanitation systems, and for the community-based demonstration projects.
These funds will be passed on as grants, in recognition that the expenditures to be financed under the
project are of a deferred-maintenance nature, which should have been undertaken and financed by
central Government much earlier. It is also recognized that until certain sectoral policies and practices
have been addressed (including tariff practices, systematic nonpayment by Government and parastatals
of water bills) and weak financial systems and procedures at the local government level have been
strengthened, it would be imprudent to saddle local governments with debt repayments which they most
likely would be unable to undertake while the restructuring process is under way. However, it has
been made clear to local governments, and will be underscored during project launch discussions, that
grant funds will be a one-off injection of resources. Signed subsidiary agreements will be required for
each participating local government. Signed subsidiary agreements between GRZ and two participating
local councils will be a condition of credit effectiveness. A signed subsidiary agreement between GRZ



- 22 -
and the local council will be a condition of disbursement to that local council. The remaining IDA
funds, for local government reform and capacity building, will be allocated to MLGH.
C        Disbursements
3.5    Management of the disbursement process, including periodic reports, will be the responsibility
of MLGH, through the newly established DISS (para 1.15). The proceeds of the credit will be
disbursed by category as shown in Table 3.3 over six years. The longer disbursement period is
consistent with Bank experience with urban projects in Africa.
Table 3.3. Disbursement Allocations (US$ millions)
CATEGORY                               CREDIT AMOUNT   % EXPENDITURE TO BE FINANCED
I. Civil Works                              20.0                      90%
2. Consultants, TA, Training                7.6                       100%
3. PPF Refund                              0.965                      100%
4. Unallocated                              4.4
TOTAL                                       33.0
The closing date for disbursements will be December 31, 2001. A detailed disbursement schedule is
provided in Annex 3.2. Specific conditions of credit effectiveness include staffing of the DISS as
agreed at negotiations.
3.6    Statements of Expenditure. For civil works contracts and for goods and services valued at less
than US$100,000 equivalent, disbursements will be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documentation for these expenditures will be forwarded by implementing agencies and
localities to MLGH, which will retain them and make them available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions.
3.7    Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursements, a special account will be opened in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation for deposits into the special account of
US$1.5 million represents an estimated average of four months' disbursements under each component.
In addition to the IDA special account, and as noted in para 3.3, the Government will also open a
project account of the equivalent of US$100,000 in local currency to facilitate disbursements of the
Government's contribution to project costs. This amount is expected to cover about three to four
months of Government expenditures. The Government project account will be handled according to
the same procedures as the IDA special account: it will be reconciled monthly and replenished
quarterly or more if disbursements are more than a quarter of the special account; its use will be
monitored along with the IDA funds and audited on an annual basis.
3.8    Commitment and Disbursement Reporting. DISS will compile and submit to IDA quarterly
reports on the status of commitments and disbursements. An initial format for these reports was
discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.



- 23 -
3.9     Because of the need to improve the financial management capacity and other aspect of
municipal operations in advance of significant investments in rehabilitation under the project, a Project
Preparation Facility (No. P909) for US$965,000 was provided. The PPF is being used to finance a
package of training, technical assistance, and computer hardware and software for nine local
governments. The expected date for refinancing is December 30, 1995.
D          Procurement
3.10    A summary of project procurement arrangements is provided in Table 3.4 below.
Table 3.4 Project Procurement Arrangements (US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Project Element             International      National Competitive    Other       Not IDA         Total
Competitive Bidding          Bidding                       Financed
Civil Works
Water Sector Rehab                  11.8                    1.3              0.9                       14.0
(10.7)                 (1.2)            (0.8)                      (12.7)
Sanitation Rehab.                   5.0                     1.0              1.1                        7.1
(4.5)                  (0.9)            (1.0)                      (6.4)
Community-based                                             2.5              2.5                        5.0
Projects                                                  (2.3)            (2.3)                      (4.6)
Consultant Services and
Training:
Policy Support                                                               2.3                        2.3
(2.3)(b)                   (2.3)
Project Preparation and
Implementation Support                                                                  11. 2(a)       11.2
Institutional Development
(a) Institutional Reform                                                    4.6                       4.6
(4.6)(b)                   (4.6)
(b) Studies                                                                 0.8                       0.8
(0. 8)(b)                  (0.8)
(c) Demonstration                                                           0.6                       0.6
Project                                                                (0.6)(b)                   (0.6)
PPF (Institutional                                                            1.0(c)                      1.0
Development)                                                                 (1.0)(b)                    (1.0)
Total COST                            16.8                   4.8               13.8         11.2         46.6
(15.2)                 (4.4)            (13.4)                    (33.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit, including contingenices but net of duties and taxes.
(a)     Items will be financed by NORAD under NORAD procurement procedures.
(b)     Services will be procured in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981).
(c)     The actual PPF amount was $0.965 million.
During negotiations, it was agreed that procurement under the project would be carried out in
accordance with the arrangements summarized in the following paragraphs. Agreement was reached
that the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would
be used, and in particular that the SBD-Supply and Installation (soon to be issued) would be used when
relevant



- 24 -
E        Civil Works
3.11   Procurement under the project for all IDA-financed civil works will be in accordance with the
Guidelines for IBRD loans and IDA credits (January 1995); the IDA credit will not separately finance
any expenditures for moveable equipment. IDA's SBD will be used for ICB. SBD will also be
developed under the project for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Bid packages (with the
exception of those related to the community-based projects) will be defined during the detailed project
design phase.
3.12   Civil Works. Civil works estimated to cost more than US$500,000 per contract will be
awarded under ICB procedures. ICB is expected to account for US$16.8 million, or about 67 percent
of the IDA allocation for civil works. Civil works for contracts estimated to cost US$500,000 or less
will be awarded under NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Total value of work to be awarded under
NCB procedures will not exceed US$4.8 million. Civil works valued at less than US$30,000, up to an
aggregate of US$4.5 million, such as leak repairs, will be procured under lump sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. Such an invitation would include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement (acceptable to IDA), and, as
applicable, relevant drawings. These small works may also be carried out under force account with
IDA's prior agreement. Community-based demonstration projects will be implemented on the basis of
procedures which will be designed in the early stage of project implementation. Although some of the
work may be contracted according to NCB procedures, it is expected that most will be under special
procedures requiring community participation.
3.13   Contracts for works related to water and sanitation rehabilitation will be packaged in the two
levels of priorities discussed in paras 2.8-2.10. Rehabilitation contracts will be prepared separately for
each municipality. Separate contracts will be issued for the repair of treatment plants and for other
works required, such as the installation of water distribution or sewage collection mains because of the
different nature of the work and the different contractor qualifications required. To encourage both
small and large contractors to submit proposals, bids will be accepted for individual contracts and
jointly for two or more contracts. Each treatment plant repair and rehabilitation contract, whether bid
and awarded separately or in groups, will include two years' operation and maintenance of the
treatment facilities constructed. The training of local staff to be hired to operate the treatment plants
will be undertaken under the MT contract (para 2. 10(c)). Separate bids shall be submitted for repair
and rehabilitation and for operation, maintenance and training contracts. Awards will be made for the
lowest combined cost of construction and operation in accordance with the evaluation procedure
specified in the contract documents. However, the owners reserve the right not to award the operation
and maintenance along with the construction contracts. Forty-eight percent of the civil works contracts
(by value) will be implemented during the first phase. Detailed estimates of the costs of Level I and II
packages are tabulated in Annex 3.1. Detailed description of the components are contained in the
consultant's report available in the project file.
3.14   The design and construction supervision will be undertaken by consultants financed under
parallel financing arrangements by NORAD. These contracts will be awarded in accordance with
NORAD procedures and include, in addition to engineering work, the supply of equipment and



- 25 -
vehicles necessary to undertake the work and the training of leak detection technicians, and include
materials (pipes, valves and other fittings) to repair the leaks identified.
3.15   Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment. Treatment plant repairs and rehabilitation work
will be by means of lump sum contracts. The work will consist basically of removal and, to a limited
extent, rehabilitation of existing equipment; the supply and installation of new equipment in the existing
treatment plant facilities that are in good structural condition; and the subsequent operation of the
rehabilitated facilities for two years during which local staff to be hired by the contractor will be
trained in the operation and maintenance of the rebuilt facilities. Only minor civil works will be
required as part of these contracts. Sixty-five percent of the supply and installation contracts (by value)
will be implemented as Level I activities. The management and training phase following the
construction is estimated to cost US$3.0 million. The funds for this component will be provided under
parallel financing arrangements by NORAD. Equipment and materials not included in the supply and
installation contracts consist of portable equipment for leak detection and system maintenance work,
including vehicles, and materials required for the repair of water distribution and sewage collection
mains, water distribution reservoirs and other malfunctioning distribution and collection facilities.
Total value of these categories is estimated at US$5.4 million, of which US$2.5 million will be
provided during the first phase as part of the design and construction supervision contracts financed by
NORAD.
3.16   Domestic Preference. Eligible domestic contractors bidding for civil works contracts under
ICB would receive a margin of preference of 7.5 percent when comparing bids with those from foreign
contractors. A margin of preference of 15 percent, or taxes or duties, whichever is smaller, would be
given under ICB for goods manufactured in Zambia when comparing domestic with foreign bids.
F        Equipment
3.17   As noted in the previous paragraphs, all equipment to be financed under the IDA credit will be
procured as part of the civil works or consultants contracts. Other equipment to be financed as part of
the project will be financed by NORAD.
G        Consulting Services and Training
3.18   Consulting services and training packages are described in paras 2. 10(b)-2. 19. There are five
aspects of consultant services and training to be provided under the project. The project preparation
and implementation support related to the rehabilitation component has already been described in paras
3.13 - 3.15. In addition, IDA financing will be provided for four activities related to policy support
and institutional development. The former includes studies on the water sector policy framework; the
latter includes a study of the management options for the water system, capacity building of local
governments and strengthening of planning, management and capital programming. In addition, the
PPF is financing consultants and training (which will include a small allocation for acquisition of
computer hardware and software) related to the immediate strengthening of the local government
finance function. Consultant services for IDA-financed technical assistance and studies will be
provided under tenns and conditions acceptable to IDA and in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). Consultants providing services related to project preparation



- 26 -
and implementation support under parallel financing by NORAD would be selected following
procedures established by NORAD.
H        Procurement Management
3.19   Management of the procurement process, which will be monitored through progress reports on
implementation, disbursements and auditing, will be the responsibility of the DISS in MLGH. The
DISS will develop and agree with local authorities on the procedures to be used in the management of
procurement and disbursement. For this purpose, a small allocation of technical assistance (three
person months) will be provided under the project.
3.20   Prior Review. During project supervision, all ICB contracts and the first three NCB contracts
for IDA-financed civil works will be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures. The review
process will cover about 80 percent of the total value of IDA-financed contracts for civil works.
Regarding consultant services, prior review by IDA or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports, and contracts will be required only for
contracts expected to cost US$100,000 or more each in the case of consulting firms, and US$50,000
for individual consultants. This exception to prior IDA review shall, however, not apply to the terms
of reference of such contracts for the employment of individuals; to single source selection of firms; to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by IDA; and to amendments of contracts with
consulting firms or individuals raising the contract value above US$100,000 or US$50,000 equivalent,
respectively.
I       Accounting and Auditing
3.21   Audit requirements are detailed in Annex 3.3. The DISS in MLGH will have overall
responsibility for maintaining project accounts and ensuring that the project is properly audited. MOF
will be responsible for organizing and submitting audits of the annual project accounts, audits of the
special accounts (one per component), and audits of statements of expenditures. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that the Borrower will prepare annual project accounts on a timely basis, that
these accounts, including the special accounts and statements of expenditure, will be audited by auditors
satisfactory to the Association, and that audits will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
the financial year.
3.22   While it is not required for the audit of the IDA credit, each local government involved in any
of the three components of the project will be required to submit audited annual accounts to MLGH.
These audits will be submitted to IDA as part of the periodic progress reporting undertaken by the
DISS. At the current time, most if not all of the local governments lack the capacity to prepare
accurate and auditable accounts on a timely basis; most are several years behind in preparation and
even further behind in auditing. The technical assistance and training provided under the institution
and capacity building component, and the complementary assistance being provided by ODA, should
enable the preparation of these accounts by the end of the first year of the project.
3.23   Under the project, a small allocation for technical assistance related to accounting and auditing
has been made to assist MLGH meet the accounting and auditing requirements. Because of limited



- 27 -
capacity at the local level, participating local governments will submit all relevant disbursement
information to MLGH for the audits of SOEs and special accounts.
J       Bank Supervision and Reporting Requirements
3.24   Reports detailing the progress of project implementation will be submitted to the Bank on a
quarterly basis. During negotiations, agreement was reached that Government will adopt project
reporting procedures satisfactory to the Bank, along agreed upon reporting formats. A schedule of
supervision missions and indication of expertise required for each mission is provided in Annex 2.8.



- 28 -
Chapter 4: PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A        Primary Project Justification
4.1    The rehabilitation component of the project is expected to benefit directly almost 1,600,000
people who currently have access to the formal water and sewerage systems in Chingola, Luanshya,
Kitwe, Ndola, Mufulira, Kalulushi, Livingstone, Kafue and Mazabuka. Rehabilitation work will
improve the supply and quality of water and mitigate health risks to the general population through
improvements in sewage treatment capacity. The community-based demonstration project component
is expected to improve water supply and access to sanitary means of human waste disposal to more than
250,000 individuals in informal settlements in Lusaka and the Copperbelt councils. The strengthening
of water supply agencies will improve this capacity to serve existing customers and extend services to
poorer communities, with guidance from the demonstration projects which will test and develop
demand-based participatory processes for the provision of water supply. The project's policy reform
component overall seeks to improve local government capacity to deliver and sustain services and to
mobilize of community organizations to participate in the planning, construction and operation of basic
infrastructure.
4.2    The community-based demonstration projects are expected to have a generally beneficial
impact on health in the selected informal settlements. Project beneficiaries should also realize savings
in terms of time and actual cash outlays now required either to haul water from distant supply points or
purchase water from vendors. Benefits from improved proximity to supply will accrue particularly to
women and children who are primarily responsible for transporting water to their homes. These direct
benefits will be augmented by the building of capacity within communities to identify means by which
local resources can be utilized to address local problems.
4.3    The introduction of improved technologies, as well as efficient pricing strategies, both for
formal system improvements and demonstration projects, will have wider benefits in terms of enhanced
revenue collection and better utilization of scarce financial resources. Labor-intensive solutions will
provide employment opportunities and skills, and regularization of land tenure will create assets which
can appreciate in value over time. The promotion of consultative processes directly involving the low
income majority population will contribute to the emergence of representative local governments within
Zambia's newly democratic environment.
4.4    The benefits resulting from the project's policy reform component will be discernible over the
medium term. Improvements in local government operations will support GRZ's overall goal of
decreasing central government intervention in the national economy. Revised local development plans
will promote more efficient utilization of resources, and divestiture of council-owned assets will
stimulate market activity particularly in housing. In general, the project seeks to support broad
economic gains by improving the efficiency with which Zambia's urban sector contributes to national
economic growth.



- 29 -
B       Key Indicators of Success
4.5    The near term indicators of success for the rehabilitation component of the project will vary
among the targeted cities depending upon the specific interventions to be financed. In general,
improvements will be achieved in the quality, and in most cities, the quantity of water delivered and in
the capacity of sewage disposal systems. Participating local governments will be assisted to establish,
where lacking, effective monitoring systems that will document the efficacy of project investments in
terms of quality and quantity, as applicable. The overall monitoring and evaluation effort will be
coordinated by DISS within MLGH and provide local councils, for the first time, with an integrated
method of presenting consolidated capital investment requirements for funding.
4.6   Indicators of success for the community-based demonstration project component will be both
qualitative and quantitative in nature. Progress in establishing appropriate community-based systems
will be the subject of regular reporting including numbers and types of water supply facilities installed
and families benefited, numbers and types of sewage disposal systems installed, etc. Equally as
important, however, will be qualitative indicators describing community participation in the planning
and implementation of demonstration projects. A monitoring system for this qualitative aspect of the
demonstration component will be designed in consultation with government officials and community
representatives, once targeted communities have been identified.
4.7   Indicators of success for the policy reform component of the project will be susceptible to near
term measurement only at the level of specific reforms accomplished. The real impact of these
reforms, the implementation of which will occur throughout the project, will become evident over the
medium term, largely beyond the duration of this project. Monitoring systems to be established under
this project for reform component success would include, for example, improvements in local
government revenue generation generally and growth in capital budgets in particular; and
corresponding diminution of recurrent expenditures as a proportion of total local government revenues.
c       Environmental Impact
4.8    Environmental analyses during preparation concluded that the overall environmental impact of
project investments would be positive (see Annex 4.1). The emergency phase measures being
supported by the project are designed to restore community access to clean water and adequate
sanitation and to reduce surface and ground water pollution. Negative impacts will be mitigated and
managed during project design and implementation.
4.9    Environmental concerns are addressed in all three components of the project: First, while
implementing the emergency phase measures, as an essential component of design and construction
contracts (para 2.10(a)): second, while implementing the demonstration component, through the
consultative processes in which peri-urban communities define their local environmental priorities
(Annex 2.2); and third, as an integral part of the process of participatory planning recommended under
the capacity building component of the project (para 2.17(b)).
4.10   The principal environmental issues identified in the environmental review, and how the project
plans to deal with them, are discussed below.



- 30 -
(a)    Issue 1: Increases in water supply. The estimated increases in production per city or
town ranges from 17 percent to 150 percent (Kalulushi excluded as there is the issue of
replacement of existing supply from ZCCM), with most in the 30-40 percent range.
(b)    Issue 2: Effects of increased abstraction. The proposed increase in supply would
restore the level of abstraction to previously designed levels; abstraction from the rivers
would amount to a relatively small fraction of overall flows.
(c)    Issue 3: The environmental impact of transmission and treatment works. As the
proposed measures are mainly rehabilitating existing plant and equipment, they would
safeguard existing infrastructure from deteriorating further, and thereby arresting the
negative impacts currently faced by urban residents. In addition the design would take
into account the local impacts of construction.
(d)    Issue 4: The environmental impact of additional water supply distribution. While
investment in leak detection equipment for the water distribution network is one
element of the project, there is the recognition, based on past experiences in Zambia
and elsewhere, that the key to proper utilization is the creation of proper incentives.
The project proposes to test alternative institutional arrangements (such as
subcontracting actual testing for leaks or involving local community groups) to be
selected by the participating city and town councils. The project further proposes to
develop procedures to ensure that the actual distribution of water is based on demand
considerations. This would be effected through revised tariffs based on marginal cost
pricing and better utilization of metering for large volume consumers.
(e)    Issue 5: The local environmental impacts of additional waste water. The project would
support investments for emergency rehabilitation of wastewater conveyance
infrastructure. Studies further are proposed to review and evaluate: (i) past
investments in conveyance and collection systems in Copperbelt towns and Lusaka; and
(ii) feasible sanitation solutions for built-up areas currently with house connections/yard
taps and inadequate wastewater and sewage disposal arrangements.
(f)    Issue 6. The environmnental impact of additional wastewater on natural resources. The
project is supporting investments in order to mitigate negative impacts of wastewater on
natural resources. The option of using treated wastewater for peri-urban farming and
pisciculture will also be evaluated.
(g)    Issue 7. Kafue River Basin water resources management. Most of the project
investments are taking place in the industrial and commercial zones along the Kafue
River. A water resources component, to be designed in the course of the project, in
conjunction with the Environmental Council of Zambia, will include preparation of a
water resource management and environmental monitoring program of the Kafue
Basin.
4.11   As specified in the design TOR, all engineering studies will follow the principles laid down in
OD 4.01 of the World Bank. Further, to strengthen the process of public consultations, the capacity
building component provides for a consultative process in which plans, priorities, implementation



- 31 -
schedules and potential environmental impacts will be discussed with representatives of key
stakeholders (councilors, industrial and commercial establishments, domestic consumers of services in
formal and peri-urban areas). Benchmarks appropriate to individual components will be identified,
which in turn will facilitate broad participation in the monitoring and evaluation of project
performance.
D        Poverty Alleviation
4.12   With over 60 percent of the country's urban population classified as poor or very poor, one of
the fundamental objectives of this project is to ensure that constraints upon the majority population's
participation in the urban economy are removed. In the near tern, emphasis will be placed on
addressing basic service deficiencies which sap the productivity of the poor through disease and
inordinate labor investments in meeting basic needs. In the medium term, the project will support
broad improvements in urban management, and thereby address the needs of the urban poor from two
perspectives: (i) by developing the institutional capacity for local governments to address the needs of
the urban poor; and (ii) by increasing economic opportunities for the urban poor population.
Promotion of community participation in consultative processes will redress imbalances in resource
allocation and expedite mobilization of sustainable self-help solutions to constraints on productivity.
The project will seek to maximize coordination with other projects, such as the IDA-assisted Social
Recovery Project (Cr. 2273-ZA), and with NGOs supporting development of micro-enterprises and
other economic opportunities among the urban poor.
E        Sustainability
4.13   Sustainability in the Zambian urban sector has historically been hampered by central
government subsidy policies that have undercut incentives for efficient local government management
and private investment, and propagated a culture of nonpayment. A key factor in sustainability of
rehabilitation investments will be the development and implementation of user fees that reflect the costs
of providing water services. Changes to the user fee structure will be accompanied by consumer
education campaigns which set out the actual costs of service provision and the relationship of these
costs to fees charged. In addition, commercialization of water and sewerage operations will be
encouraged; already, all of the project cities are exploring opportunities for commercialization and this
project will provide an excellent means for local governments to assess options and receive required
technical assistance and training to establish successful commercial operations. At the level of the
community, previous experience and the difficult economic conditions that are expected to prevail
among the urban poor during the project implementation period, have indicated that sustainability of
demonstration project investments will derive mainly from community-based management of installed
improvements. Creation of management capacity at the community level will require coordination with
NGOs and reorientation of local government structures and human resources to a supportive, rather
than prescriptive, role. Recovery of capital costs will, in most cases, be achieved indirectly through
rates.



- 32 -
F       Project Risks
4.14   The key risk to successful project implementation is the limited capacity of local governments
and communities to identify, plan, implement and sustain urban infrastructure investments. In view of
this, initial investments have been kept to the minimum requirement. With respect to policy,
encouragement of local autonomy is essential, but the capacity to establish sustainable growth cannot
simply be legislated. Required reforms are both broad and detailed, ranging from virtual creation of
land markets to installation of functional budgeting procedures. While the willingness of key actors to
address these fundamental challenges is apparent and encouraging, both strengthening of capacity and a
reorientation in approach are required. The project tackles these issues directly through studies and
training packages that specifically address the appropriate skills and institutional arrangements,
including an enhanced role for the private sector for the provision of infrastructure and services. Given
the complexity of issues, annual reviews will be held in which key benchmarks will be reviewed and
achievable targets set for the coming year. This will ensure a focused but flexible approach to the
reform process.



- 33 -
Chapter 5: AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A        Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
5.1.   The conditions of credit effectiveness are as follows:
(a)    staffing of key positions for the DISS (para 2.23);
(b)    completion of the Project Implementation Plan (para 2.26);
(c)    meeting all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of funds under the NORAD
Grant Agreement (para 2.10); and
(d)    signing of subsidiary agreements between Government and at least two participating
local councils (para 3.4).
B       Conditions of Disbursement:
5.2.   The following will be required before disbursements will be made to the local government in
question:
(a)    Signed subsidiary agreements between GRZ and the participating local government
(para 3.4);
(b)    As part of the subsidiary legal agreement, agreement from participating local councils
that they will protect dwellings and structures within community compounds and
informal settlements from demolition, unless this demolition is required for health and
safety reasons or to provide essential urban services. However, such demolition would
be subject to prior review by IDA and must be conducted in line with IDA resettlement
policies; the council further shall, if necessary, amend its regulations in order to enable
the legalization of the settlement beneficiary communities within its jurisdiction (para
1.24);
(c)    For the demonstration component, review and approval by IDA of settlement technical
plans (para 2.14).
C        Agreements Reached During Negotiations
5.15   Assurances reached at negotiations include:
(a)    Government will make adequate budgetary provisions for its share of project cost; the
amounts to be deposited and maintained in a project account were agreed (para 3.3);
(b)    Procurement will be carried out in accordance with IDA guidelines (Guidelines for the
Procurement of Goods and Services dated January 1995 and Use of Consultants by



- 34 -
World Bank Borrowers dated August 1981). It was further agreed that the Bank's SBD
for ICB and in particular the SBD-Supply and Installation (soon to be issued) will be
used when relevant; (para 3.10);
(c)    MLGH will prepare annual project accounts on a timely basis, that these accounts,
including the special account and statements of expenditure, will be audited by auditors
satisfactory to the Association, and that audits will be submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of the financial year (para 3.21);
(d)    GRZ will adopt reporting procedures satisfactory to the Bank along agreed-upon
reporting formats (para 3.24).
D       Recommendation
5.3.   On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 21.3 million (US$33 million equivalent).



- 35 -                                  Annex) 
Page I of I
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ITEMS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.     Aide-Memoires - January/February, June/July, November 1994
2.     Zambia Poverty Assessment, 2 Vols.
3.     Draft National Housing Policy
4.     Local Government Act No. 22 of 1992
5.     Proposed Strategy and Institutional Framework for Water Supply Sanitation Sector
6.     LOGOS Project Description
7.     Draft Urban Issues Framework Paper
8.     Municipal Government Finance Paper
9.     Interconsult Report on Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities
10.    Kafue District Council Water Tariff Study
i1.    Technical Assistance for Local Government Strengthening (PPF) TOR and Invitation of
Proposals
12.    Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation - Design of Investment Component - TOR
13.    Demonstration Project Design and Facilitation Consultants - TOR
14.    Study of Water Management Options in URWS Project Towns - TOR
15.    Planning, Management and Capital Programming TOR
16.    Project Implementation Manual (pending)



- 36 -                                 Annex 2.1
Page I of 6
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of Rehabilitation Component
OBJECTIVES
1.    The objectives of the rehabilitation project are to:
(a)    Restore water and sewage treatment plants so they produce the quantity and quality of
potable water and effluent, respectively, they were originally designed to produce;
(b)    Increase the productivity and simplicity of operation by process changes which can be
implemented without increasing project construction and subsequent operating costs; and
(c)    Reduce leakage in water transmission and distribution through leak detection and repair,
including the training of local staff to ensure that leak detection becomes a continuous
activity of water supply management.
COMPONENTS
Participating Towns
2.     The cities and towns selected are amongst those which were affected by serious outbreaks of
cholera and enteric diseases from 1991 to 1993. A 1992 report prepared for the Ministry of Local
Government and Housing (MLGH) identified the water supply and sanitation measures, principally
improving water treatment and reducing discharge of untreated wastewater to receiving waters, considered
necessary to reduce the incidence of these diseases (some of the towns draw water from rivers below the
point at which they discharge untreated sewage).
3.     The towns originally selected for this project included Chingola, Kitwe, Livingstone, Luanshya,
and Ndola. Subsequently the towns of Kafue, Kalulushi, Mazabuka and Mufulira were added. In all of
these towns, measures to improve both water supply quality and quantity and reduce pollution through
improved sewage treatment are required. In Chingola, the town's source of water, the Kafue River, is
badly polluted from mine tailing discharges. This pollution needs to be eliminated if permanent
improvements in the town's water treatment plant are to be achieved.
4.     Table I below lists the estimated total population, population provided with water supply and
sewerage services, and the quantity of water delivered. The quality of the water provided is at best highly
unreliable, and the estimated quantity is only approximate due to the lack of bulk and retail metering.
Nevertheless the numbers provide an indication of the potential improvements which can be achieved by this
project.



-37 -                                  Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 6
Table 1
1993 Estimated Population and Population Served in 100,000s
Estimated Production and Delivery Capacity in 1000 m3/day
Population         Treatment          Estimated Delivery
Town
WS      WS              Actual  Leaks    1000    lcd
Total  hc       Stp     Design             %         m3
Chingola       370    207      11       30       22       50        11      51
Kafue          200    120      22       30       22        50       11      108
Kalulushi      150     90       -       18       18        50       9       98
Kitwe          400    127    120        84       56       50        28      192
Livingstone    120     70      18       46       32       50        16      221
Luanshya       200     50       -       28       11       60        6.5    130
Mazabuka        42      11     21       7         6       50         3      229
Mufulira       200    134      20       33       23        50       11.5    80
Ndola          600    348      198     212       147      50        73.5   194
Total                 1,157    410     488       337       -       169.      -
1 2,282
Consultant's Work
5.    Improvement needs for each town were reviewed by a NORAD funded consultant engineer under
contract to MLGH. The consultant also prepared estimates for the project components to be included in the
project.
6.     The consultant's work was examined closely and found to be of acceptable quality.
Recommendations for changing the priority of some components and increase the scope of others are well
justified. Suggestions for possible alternative designs to improve treatment plant performance appear sound.
Preliminary designs and estimates for these alternatives will be prepared during the initial phase of the next
phase of technical assistance and, if found financially and technically justified, incorporated into the project.
7.     Two of the towns, Kalulushi and Mufulira, are last minute additions and were not included in the
consultant's analysis. The project components identified in those towns are similar in nature and scope to
those of the other cities, and will thus be included in the final design during the next phase.
8.     Existing conditions in the project towns water supply and sanitation facilities and rehabilitation
work necessary is described in detail in the "Report on Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities", June 1994,
Interconsult A/S, Lusaka (the report can be found in the project file). The following section provides a
general overview of the consultants findings and the mission's impressions.
Components
General Observations
9.     The problems the various towns face in their attempts to provide an adequate water supply and
wastewater disposal service are very similar. They are described first, and only problems specific to
individual towns are mentioned in the subsequent paragraphs.
10.    Mechanical equipment in every water treatment plant and pumping station visited is either
malfunctioning, not functioning, or in constant danger of failure. Sedimentation facilities are ineffective,



- 38 -
Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 6
and filters have defective filter bottoms, inoperative controls and deficient filtermedia. Standby pumping
capacity does not exist, and the frequent failures result in a curtailing of service. Generally, equipment and
most pumps need to be replaced, while in some cases reconditioning may be possible. Structurally, the
facilities are sound, indeed the concrete work is of excellent quality.
11.    As a result of all these deficiencies, water is generally delivered during a few hours per day, and
the water quality is inadequate. Most treatment plants deliver water little improved from raw water in
quality because chemical dosing equipment is faulty, lacking altogether, or funds for the purchase of
chemicals are not available. Quality surveillance is impossible because laboratories are not equipped to
determine water quality, and vehicles are not available to collect samples in the distribution system to
determine delivered water quality. No facilities for testing raw water in order to apply the correct quantity
of chemicals are available. For that reason, and the lack of vehicles, river water quality is not monitored.
12.    Bulk and retail water meters are not functioning, many due to vandalism, others due to a lack of
maintenance (only one functioning bulk water meter was found in all the water and sewage treatment plants
visited). The quantity of water produced and delivered is therefore not known, but the lack of maintenance
of the distribution system suggests that leakage rates are very high, probably around 50% of water
produced. Production is also lower than design values due to reduced pumping capacity.
13.    Wastewater treatment and pumping are equally ineffective. Fortunately, some of the towns are
served by wastewater stabilization ponds which, although not functioning now, are at least less costly than
other systems to repair and, once restored, easier and less costly to operate than mechanical plants.
14.    Observations indicate that staff operating these facilities have not been properly trained and, in
general, believe that the principle solution to breakdowns is the replacement of whatever failed. Operating
manuals are not available, and there is little evidence that operators fully understand processes they are
expected to control. Therefore, if improvements are to be sustainable, rehabilitation has to be accompanied
by extensive training. At the same time, efforts have to be made to control vandalism which is the cause of
many problems, such as the destruction of meters. Even communications between treatment plants and
headquarters is interrupted because telephone cables have been stolen.
15.    To permit maximum flexibility in the implementation of the rehabilitation program, and in
particular, to ensure that councils are not undertaking projects then they are unable to handle before their
institutional and training needs are met, the project of each town has been divided into first and second
'levels" of investment. Both are urgently required to at least begin solving existing problems, but second
priority components could be delayed without causing further damage. Second priority items consist mostly
of sewerage facilities which can be delayed until water supply is well on the way to restoration, and some
equipment, the purchase of which can also be delayed. Among other things, a decision on whether to
implement in sequence will be made on the basis of progress in the design and implementation of
institutional improvements and the necessary training program. Design work will cover both first and
second priority components, and contracts will be formulated once the decision is made whether to proceed
in two stages. The TOR for the design work follows in Annex 2.
Chingola
16.    Water is pumped from the Kafue River to the treatment plant located immediately adjacent to the
river, some 10 kms from town. The original raw water intake has silted in and has had to be supplemented
with floating pumps. The water treatment needs a complete overhaul, with most of the chemical feed and
sedimentation equipment not functioning, the filters overloaded and malfunctioning, pumping capacity
reduced due to frequent pump breakdowns and a lack of stand-by pumps. The plant laboratory equipment
has been either vandalized or malfunctions, with a consequent lack of analysis and water quality control.
Water meters at the treatment plant and in the system are damaged beyond repair (vandalism is a major
cause of domestic meter damage). The quantity and quality of water abstracted, treated and delivered is



- 39 -
Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 6
therefore not known, but constant pipeline breakdowns and visual observation indicates that system leakage
are very high.
17.    The raw water intake of Chingola is located downstream of major mining operations, and the river
carries a major silt load from mine tailings, particularly during the rainy season when the suspended solids
rise to over 300 ppm from the more normal 20 ppm. The treatment plant cannot cope with such raw water
conditions, which together with inadequate operations, have led to a failure of the plant to produce a water
of adequate quality. The mine is introducing remedial measures that will reduce and possibly eliminate
future silt spillage, but the accumulated silt in the river will take years to wash away, and until such time,
the treatment plant will be affected every rainy season. To protect the investment about to be made in
restoring the plant, either a raw water transmission main will have to be constructed to carry
uncontaminated water from about 12 kms upstream of the present intake, or two presedimentation ponds
will have to be constructed. GRZ and ZCCM must be approached to implement these measures, which are
not the responsibility of Chingola. ZCCM appears willing to undertake a survey of river water quality at
three sampling points along the river during the next rainy season to determine water quality in the absence
of additional spillage from the mining operations.
18.    The sewage pumping station needs to be completely rehabilitated, new pumps and auxiliary
equipment installed, and the 2 sets of stabilization ponds reconstructed.
Kafue
19.    The raw water pumping station withdrawing water from the Kafue River has limited pumping
capacity because pumps and the entire station and its surroundings are ineffectively maintained. There is no
standby capacity to protect against pump failure.
20.    The raw water main to the treatment plant is leaking badly and needs to be partially replaced. No
chemicals have been used for several years, nor is the water disinfected. Chemical feed pumps and dosing
equipment has been vandalized, as has been the laboratory. Flocculation equipment and filter controls are
no longer functioning, and the filters themselves are defective.
Kalulushi
21.   In the past Kitwe supplied water from its treatment plant by means of a 15" pipeline. Unable to
provide sufficient water to its own population, Kitwe cut off supply to Kalulushi. Water is now purchased
from ZCCM, but the quality is questionable. ZCCM prefers not to continue the supply, which in any event
is of insufficient quantity. A wellfield is planned to replace the present supply.
22.    Sewage collection is inadequate, and sewage is discharged untreated because an old mechanical
treatment facility no longer functions. Stabilization ponds are proposed to replace the plant.
Kitwe
23.    Both water and sewage treatment plants are deficient, with broken down equipment and pumps
which need to be replaced. Both the large (82,000 m3/day) and the very small (1,800 m3/day) water
treatment plants are withdrawing water from the Kafue river and need complete rehabilitation. One water
distribution reservoir out of three is in danger of collapse due to structural damage, one is leaking and not in
use, leaving the third and smallest as the only one safe to use.
24.    Major water treatment and distribution system repairs are planned for implementation at some
future date with financial support of the African Development Bank (ADB). The project, therefore,
includes only urgently needed repairs, such as pump and equipment replacements, and reservoir repairs.



- 40 -                                     Annexv 2.1
Page S of 6
25.    The sewage treatment plant (46,000 m3/day) is ineffective and of a complicated design, and efforts
will be made during rehabilitation to simplify the process to facilitate future operation and maintenance.
One malfunctioning sewage pumping station will be abandoned, with sewage instead carried by gravity to
one of two sets of existing stabilization ponds. With that, Kitwe will have an all gravity sewer system.
Both sets of ponds are in good condition, requiring only general cleanup. A new set of stabilization ponds
will be constructed near the existing treatment plant to provide sewage treatment during rehabilitation.
Thereafter, the ponds will serve as the final treatment step, and as insurance in case of future plant
breakdown.
26.    Sewage is carried across several creeks on pipe bridges which are leaking and in some cases
vandalized to obtain sewage for irrigation of gardens below. These bridges have to be repaired to eliminate
pollution of the creeks. One of the creeks discharges just above the raw water intake of the water treatment
plant.
27.    Kitwe is making an attempt to test its raw and treated water, although tests are limited and not very
useful due to a lack of equipment and chemicals.
Livingstone
28.    One of the two water treatment plants is functioning reasonably well, the older non-functioning one
will be rehabilitated in the near future with ADB funding. At the same time, the older of two pumping
stations located at the Zambesi River will be equipped with new pumps and an additional pump installed in
the newer pumping station. The force main connecting the pumping stations with the treatment plants is
badly leaking and will be replaced as part of this project.
29.    Recently built stabilization ponds not yet in service will provide sewage treatment for Livingstone.
Portions of the sewer system which are malfunctioning will be replaced as part of this project.
Luanshya
30.    Luanshya is undoubtedly suffering from the worst conditions among the several towns included in
this project. Its major source of water, the Kafubu River, is located 11 kms from town and the force main
is almost constantly failing from pressure breaks. The plastic pipes, purchased after lengthy storage in
Nigeria, are very brittle. Leaks occur almost weekly, reducing supply to a minimum because the pipeline
carries 76% of Luanshya's water to the treatment plant in town. A new pipeline needs to be constructed
using an alignment which avoids the swampy area the present line traverses for part of its length.
31.    The water treatment plant suffers from all the same ills of the others already described and needs to
be rehabilitated. Pumps and auxiliary equipment in three pumping stations (including the raw water
pumping station at the Kafubu) need to be replaced.
32.    The existing wastewater stabilization ponds are sufficient for Luanshya's needs, but need to be
cleaned up, with piping and vandalized meters restored.
Mazabuka
33.    The simple slow sand filters are well suited to satisfy Mazbuka's needs, but most of the pumps and
bulk meters need to be replaced. Leakage in the distribution system is high.
34.    The raw water is supplied from ZSC's irrigation system, and the town is presently using almost
three times the negotiated amount. ZSC would prefer not to continue the arrangement, and a study needs to
be undertaken to explore alternative supplies.



- 41 -                                Annex2.1
Page 6 of 6
35.    The sewer system and the stabilization ponds are totally unusable and need to be replaced.
Mufulira
36.    Both the raw water pumping station and treatment plant at the Kafue river are in reasonable
condition, although the treatment plant requires several pump replacements to pump treated water to
town. Chemical dosing equipment and pumps need to be replaced. Booster pumps in the distribution
system also need to be replaced, and leakage in the distribution system is high. Some force main additions
are required to increase water delivery capacity.
37.    Sewerage is not included in the project because its problems are considered less urgent than those of
the water supply system.
Ndola
38.    Two of the five water sources of Ndola consist of wellfields, one of which was commissioned in
1992. Water production is limited and not all the installed pump capacity is used. Vandalism is a constant
problem. A third source is an old mine from which water is pumped, but the yield is rapidly decreasing.
Finally, there are two water treatment plants abstracting water from the Kafubu River, both of which
require extensive rehabilitation of equipment and replacement of pumps.
39.    Two of three sewage treatment plants require rehabilitation, as one has just been commissioned and
is still in good condition. Rehabilitation of these plants is important because they are located upstream of
the two water treatment plants drawing their water from the Kafubu River. Similar to the Kitwe sewage
treatment plant, a stabilization pond will be constructed at one of the Ndola treatment plants to serve first as
a temporary treatment while the plant is being rehabilitated and thereafter as a final treatment step and to
ensure minimal treatment in case of plant failure. The second mechanical treatment plant is being expanded
and will then have two complete and separate treatment units.
40.    Three sewage pumping stations require almost complete pump and equipment replacement.



- 42 -
Annex 2.2
Page I of 11
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF DEMONSTRATION COMPONENT
I.     OBJECTIVES
1.     This component has the dual objectives of (a) developing sustainable water systems in low income
urban communities, and (b) strengthening institutional capacity and linkages within and between city councils
and participating communities through:
(i)    promoting community-generated water and sanitation projects that are designed,
operated and managed by the community, meeting articulated needs at an affordable
price; and
(ii)    strengthening the capacity within local councils to support the process of community
project design and installation, developing and monitoring the institutional
mechanisms that will be used for the planning and implementation of future urban
development projects.
11.  PROJECT BACKGROUND
Urban Poverty: Access to Water and Sanitation Services
2.     One quarter of the entire Zambian population resides in low income urban areas where the majority
live below the poverty line [Zambia Urban Poverty Assessment, 1994]. The urban poor have severe problems
with access to water and sanitation services as existing piped water supplies are directed to upper income
consumers. Legal low income areas are officially provided with standpipes (1/25 households). However, field
visits show that many standpipes are no longer in operation, and those that do still function frequently only
have water for only a few hours a day.
3.     From the perspective of the urban poor two issues are clear. First, the current level of service
delivery is unsatisfactory; some residents faced with either irregular or no water supplies are forced to pay
substantial prices' for informal access, while for others additional costs incurred include time spent in water
collection and the risks to health and personal safety. These costs are predominantly born by women. Second,
there appears to be little sense of community ownership. Public facilities have high breakdown rates and are
frequently vandalized because services are not organized through a sustainable system of incentives.
4.     In recognition of the above and that the needs of low income urban residents will not be addressed by
rehabilitation of formal infrastructure, the URWSP has a "demonstration" component to address the specific
needs of low income populations in the short run, while building the institutional mechanisms central to more
equitably planned infrastructure in the future.
These costs are difficult to ascertain, but appear to vary regionally. Figures quoted in Lusaka ranged from KIOO to K500 for a 20 liter bucket of
water. In situations where no monetary transactions take place, residents spend considerable time fetching water.



- 43 -
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 11
Review of Past Experience in the Sector
5.     Zambia has a rich experience with urban programs, contributing to some of the most innovative
developments in past decades. The experience of large scale "squatter" upgrading in Lusaka during the 1970s
is perhaps the best documented. The Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project (Loan 1057-
ZA), a model of its time, included the provision of water and sanitation infrastructure. Between 1975 and
1980, 20,000 plots were provided with basic services, a considerable achievement. As early as 1978,
however, difficulties with operations and maintenance were apparent; services could not be sustained and the
problems experienced provide important lessons for future work in the sector.
6.     A review of the literature reveals the following key problem areas:
(a)    Dissatisfaction with the pre-determined level of service
Initial project planning was driven by engineers who determined basic service levels (one
standpipe with two taps per 25 households). Those in the overspill area, whose higher mean
incomes resulted in a preference for yard taps and house connections, were ignored.
(b)    Limited role of community participation
Participation was seen as a means to facilitate speedy project implementation. Community
development activities were thus driven by the engineering component. Participation was
essentially a briefing process, limiting the scope for questioning and active resident
involvement.
(c)    Failure of the project to develop sustainable rules for cost recovery
There was an assumption that groups of households residing around public standposts could
"mutually police" cost recovery. Operations and maintenance were often not specifically
considered in project design.
(d)    Perceived unfairness ofpricing rules by community members
A flat rate of K1 was charged initially and later raised to K3. Residents complained about the
charge for a number of reasons: some services such as refuse collection were included in the
consolidated charge but never provided, some consumers considered the level of service
inadequate, and for the poorest residents, the charge appeared discriminatory.
(e)    Failure of the city council to implement incentives for prompt payment
No incentives were established under the project for residents to pay promptly. In some cases
those who had paid were affected by disconnections, a council response to high levels of non-
payment within communities.
(f)    Lack of attention to institutional arrangements
There was an assumption that appropriate technology could be delivered through existing
(inappropriate) institutions. In particular no attention was given to linkages among the
communities, the project, and the councils who were expected to manage the project after a
rapid hand-over by project staff.



- 44 -
Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 11
7.     For the demonstration project, three key lessons can be drawn:
(a)    Pricing, cost recovery and choice of service level must be addressed at the earliest stages of
project planning. Community participation should be seen as a means to address these issues
and ensure that conflicts are revealed at the planning stage, on the basis of which the
community could negotiate service levels and organizational arrangements based on what they
collectively want and are willing to pay for.
(b)    Service levels should address articulated preferences with different service options within a
community open to consideration, if there are differences in willingness to pay.
(c)    Community participation, in keeping with the above, should be designed to ensure a wide
range of voices within a community are heard in an active process. Ensuring linkages
between the resulting community organizations and municipal institutions would be central to
the process of participation.
A heterogeneity of organizational arrangements and service levels would be expected to be the outcome of the
demonstration projects, and could form the basis of multi-sectoral service provision in low income communities
in follow up urban projects
Current Initiatives in the Urban Sector
8.     Urban Water Projects A number of institutions, both government and non-government, are currently
involved in water and sanitation projects that target low income communities. The focus of preparatory
missions has been to visit a large number of these projects to ensure that current experiences are reflected in
project design. A summary of projects visited is presented below and projects are briefly evaluated on the
basis of lessons learned above.



- 45 -
Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 11
PROJECT           APPROACH TO:                                             FIELD
OBSERVATIONS
Pricing           Participation      Service Level/    1
l ______________________  _ ______________________      T ech.
JICA              Very high          Community was    Standpost            Capital cost levels
George, Lusaka    investment costs    not involved in   borehole, elevated   do not make this a
(US$300/capita).   project planning.   tank and         replicable model.
Residents         Participation      reticulation to    No indication that
expected only to    specialists are  public faucets. No  community have a
contribute towards  sensitizing the  effort to          sense of ownership
routine O&M;      community with    rehabilitate        or has incentive to
levels and        respect to         existing system.    operate and maintain
mechanisms for    maintenance. 32                       system.
cost recovery not   guards to be
yet worked out.    employed to
safeguard
infrastructure.
Irish Aid         Residents          Community gave    Standpost tap       Difficulties with
Kamanga, Lusaka   contributed labor   high priority to  fitting is designed   maintenance
to initial        water in           to be vandal proof  payments are
construction and    participatory needs  but is unhygienic.   escalating owing to
responsible for   assessment and     Some standpipes   local politics.
O&M; contribute   elected water      have broken and    Provision of water
K300/ month/      committee.         replacement parts   within community
household.        Participation was   do not appear to    before cost recovery
Difficulties with    not extended to  be available.     modalities were
maintenance       choices on service                    agreed, combined
payments;         levels and                            with technical
previously as high  technology or                       problems are
as 70% but have    methods of                           creating difficulties.
now fallen to 30%.  maintenance
Resentment        payments.
expressed by those  Intensive efforts
residents who     required by water
have paid a year in  committee and
advance.          Irish Aid to ensure
O&M payments.



- 46 -
Annex 2.2
Page 5 of 11
PROJECT  APPROACH TO:                                             FIELD
Pricing           Participation     Service            OBSERVATIONS
Level/Tech.
World Vision      No water system   Emphasis on       No system in       Based on past urban
Chainda, Lusaka   in place. Market   participation as  place.            experience in the
committee pays    opposed to service                   Copperbelt WV will
for repair of     provision has led                    let PRA process
market tap.       to extended                          determine project
Frequent change    consultations and                   design and
of market         no decision to date                  maintenance. Too
committee due     on water system.                     early to draw
fund defalcation                                       conclusions.
by office holders.
KADECO            Community pays a  Strong indigenous   Community        Private management
Kawama West,    guard K50/month   community            handpumps.        of standpipe
Mufulira          for access to the    organization,   Technology        represents a
standpipe and he is  originally formed   determined by the   promising initiative.
responsible for   by Oxfam which    donors that
maintenance.      left the settlement   KADECO has
5 years ago.      successfully
managed to
approach.
Maintained
through cost
recovery and
organizational
form based on
incentives.
Resident          Residents have    Organization is the  No system in    Existing public
Development       collected K45,000  responsibility of    place. RDC     standposts are
Committee        to date and hope to  the RDC formed    assumption that    missing taps. RDC
Racecourse, Kitwe  approach the     with the assistance  standpipe/25    and community
Micro Projects    of city council   households would  appeared
Unit when they    development       be installed.      unconcerned at the
reach their target   workers.                          wastage as taps flow
of K2.4 million.                                       continually and have
not used collected
funds for repair.
Lack of initiative
raises questions as to
viability of future
plans.



- 47 -
Annex 2.2
Page 6 of 11
PROJECT  APPROACH TO:                                             FIELD
Pricing           Participation     Service            OBSERVATIONS
Level/Tech.
Community         No existing       Shallow wells      Chibote has been
Chibote, Kalulushi  currently has   organization,                        identified by KCC
individual shallow   Council plans to                 for a demonstration
wells and do not   form RDC.                           project. Community
pay water charges.                                     unlikely to pay
towards public
standpipes given
relatively good
water quality and
quantity obtained
from shallow wells.
The preferred level
of service is likely to
be a yard tap if the
community should
prove willing to pay.
Community pays a  MMD has           One standpipe/25   An interesting
Nkwasi, Ndola     contribution to a    assumed control of  households, of  example of "private"
water guard when  the old UNIP      which the majority  management and of
the system is in    structures and the   are still working.   a collection
need of repair.   water guard is                       mechanism that
responsible for 25                  appears to suit the
households. The                     particular
church appears                      community, i.e.,.
also to be active                   funds are collected
within the                          when necessary.
community,
working within
this structure.
RDC & Catholic    Community has    Indigenous          Communities have  Collection of the
Church            heard of          organization      identified         funds appears to
Kapisha, Chingola  demonstration    appears to be      differentiated    suggest keen interest
project and       strong.           service levels;    and a willingness to
collected                           yard taps for      pay for the service.
K200,000 towards                    affluent residents   Articulation by the
participation.                      and community      community of the
standpipes for the   need to incorporate
poor.             different service
levels within the
project reflects that
choices have been
evaluated.



- 48 -
Annex 2.2
Page 7 of 11
PROJECT  APPROACH TO:                                             FIELD
Pricing           Participation     Service           OBSERVATIONS
Level/Tech.
Chazanga, Lusaka  Community         Community         Community         Notable that this
members have      organization of   standpipe. Funds   well-functioning
organized         women formed to   collected in      working committee
themselves into a   solve community   previous months    was the only
committee and set  difficulties in  have been used to   committee visited
a monthly charge   water access (cost  change plastic  where women make
of K500 which     and distance).    piping to steel   up majority or
entitles each     Only external     after 3           entirety of members.
household to 8    assistance is     breakdowns.        Highlights the
buckets/day.      "moral" support by                  importance of
elected councilor.                 involvement of
System of                           those who are
regulated hours                     responsible for
and volunteer                       service provision at
security guards is                 the household level.
in place.                           Illustrates the
potential of
including committed
elected
representatives.
9.     Urban Institutional Initiatives Currently two programs are operating out of MLGH, with the objective
of strengthening the institutional capacity of city councils to work in a decentralized participatory manner: the
UNCHS Habitat program and the ODA-financed LOGOS project. These are described below:
(a)    UNCHS Habitat/MLGH Community Participation Program. This program has developed an
institutional framework linking MLGH (the coordinators of the program) to municipal councils
and, at the community level, Resident Development Committees (RDC). Thirteen councils are
currently participating in the project and a number of councils staff (15 per year) have been
trained in community leadership, organization and resource mobilization through the
Chalimbana Institute.
(b)    LOGOS Project. This program has the more general objective of strengthening local councils
within MLGH's decentralization initiative.  A participatory planning component aims to
strengthen planning processes within the council. Given that the LOGOS project team are new
to Zambia, links to the Habitat program and the forum for participatory planning have not been
defined. It was suggested that the World Bank take the lead in developing the structures of a
participatory planning forum with the councils.2
Interview with Ms. Janet Gardener, ODA planning coordinator, MLGH, October 20, 1994.



- 49 -
Annex 2.2
Page 8 of 11
10.    The bottom-up approach taken by the demonstration component complements the above initiatives.
Bank project preparation documents have recognized that community-generated initiatives cannot be sustained in
a vacuum and that capacity must be built within councils to respond to participation at the community level. The
Habitat and LOGOS projects are expected to ensure that this capacity is created. The ability under the URWSP to
provide funds directly to community-driven projects will help ensure that council officers trained under the above
programs have the opportunity to collaborate on the "doing and learning" approach of the demonstration
component.
III.    PROJECT DESIGN AND PRINCIPLES
Demonstration Project Model
II.    Preparation of the demonstration component has focused on understanding the history of urban
upgrading, learning from existing experiences and in turn testing the validity of hypotheses at the community
level using PRA methods in a process of systematic client consultation. Two broad conclusions have shaped the
demonstration model: (i) it is important that project arrangements are sufficiently flexible to allow for
differentiated levels of service delivery should this be "demanded" by the community; and (ii) it is important that
the full community participate in the design of the project and the supporting institutional arrangements.
12.    Agreed Principles of Project Design
(i)    projects must be community generated; communities themselves must play the central
role in the design, implementation, monitoring and management of the project
(ii)   projects must be within the technical, financial and managerial capacity of
communities; these capacities will vary among communities, but an economic test
based on demand considerations, is expected to play a screening role and result in a
wide range of technologies and projects.
(iii)    municipal partners must have access to technical assistance to enable them to respond
to processes at the community level; sustainability of the project approach hinges on
this principle and the project recognizes the key institutional support through UNCHS
and LOGOS projects undertaken within councils.
(iv)    municipal partners should participate fully in the design of institutional procedures and
definition of the council's role; councils should only be expected to provide what is
reasonable within resource levels. In keeping with the policy of decentralization,
project activities should be delegated to the lowest possible level (within communities
where possible).
Agreed Criteria for Project Participation
13.   In order to be eligible for participation in the demonstration component, communities will have the
following characteristics:
(i)    Poverty Criteria Communities will have an inadequate water supply. i.e., no reliable access to
a formal water system and reside in informal peri-urban areas. In urban Zambia, absence of



- 50 -
Annex 2.2
Page 9 of 11
water services is a clearer indication of poverty than established income-based poverty lines3
and can thus be used as a simple operational criteria.
(ii)    Economic Criteria The project proposes to provide a fixed "budget ceiling" of investment
support to the communities. This ceiling of US$25 per capita is based on data provided by GRZ
and other bilateral projects and represents the average cost for a minimum level of water supply.
While communities are encouraged to exercise choice over service levels, anything over and
above the US$25 per capita must be provided by the community, as well as all post-investment
operaton and maintenance (O&M). The per capita ceiling will be reviewed on a regular basis.
(iii)   Institutional Criteria   Communities must either have formed an existing community
organization with the capacity to facilitate a participatory project design process. or be willing to
work with appointed project design and training consultants.  This process leads to the
production of the Settlement Technical Plan (STP) described in the next section.
IV.  BENCHMARKS DURING IMPLEMENTATION
Phase                  Actor Responsible       Partners               Benchmarks
1. Organization and    RDC/community           Design Consultants     STP Preparation
Project Design                                                        (see Annex 2b for
details)
II. Design Approval    Council                 DISS4                  Disbursement of Funds
III. Construction      Council (through       RDC/community           Completion of physical
Contractor)            Design Facilitation     infrastructure.
Consultant e.g. NGO    Finalization of O&M
arrangements
IV. Operations and     RDC/community          Council staff / Project    Successful maintenance
Maintenance                                   Management Advisors   of infrastructure 24
months after completion
The Settlement Technical Plan (STP)
14.    The STP will be the core output of Phase 1. STP components include: (i) the formation of a community
organization who will be responsible for the project, (ii) a project design specifying required service levels, and
(iii) a financial plan for maintenance. It provides for (i) the exercise of choice by the community on service levels
and organizational arrangements; and (ii) modalities to recover costs over US$25 per capita as well as operations
and maintenance costs. A series of benchmarks and process indicators will monitor the steps taken in the
preparation of the STP and the methods used. Details of the STP are included in the consultancy TOR.
Completion of the STP and initial collection of community contributions towards maintenance must precede
submission of the project to the council for funding.
Zambia Urban Poverty Assessment, World Bank. 1994
Final approval in the initial phase will rest with the DISS.



- 51 -
Annex 2.2
Page 10 of 11
15.    During all four phases of implementation summarized in the table above. communities will have
contractual relations with a number of partners. While it is recognized that communities will need technical
assistance in the design and construction of their projects, the community's role is central in each phase and
communities will retain primary responsibility throughout the process.
16.    The Role of Consultants In phase I Project Design and Facilitation Consultants will be contracted
through the DISS with the concurrence of Councils to facilitate a participatory process of community capacity
building leading to the preparation of the STP (for TOR, see Annex 2.3b). Consultants will be expected to have
expertise in the key project areas including the social (community participation) and technical (pricing, choice of
service level and engineering options) During Phase Ill (construction), the continued assistance of the design
consultants will be expected to ensure construction is consistent with design.
17.    The Role of DISS The DISS will work in partnership with the Councils in approving the Project
Design Consultants and the STPs. It will be essential that the monitoring and supervision of this component
highlight and maintain linkages to the other two components of the URWSP, to ensure that lessons learned within
the demonstration project become operationalized. The linkages established will be an important element in both
sustaining the demonstration projects and ensuring the institutional framework for participation of low income
communities in future urban development programs.
18.    The Role of the Council Councils will be responsible for approving the STPs and disbursing funds for
the community organization in order that construction of the water or sanitation system can be started. Councils
will appraise the projects in the communities, thus ensuring links and understanding of the project; appraisal must
be carried out by a team that will include the minimum of a representative from the Department of Housing and
from the Department of Engineering. In this initial phase the DISS will support councils in appraisal and their
agreement will be necessary for project approval.
19.    Award of Construction Contracts The community organization will concur in the appointment of a
contractor for construction of the infrastructure in Phase III of the project. Procurement will take place under
recognized GRZ procedures for community-based demand-led projects.
Monitoring and Evaluation
20.    The demonstration component is a structured learning process; thus the role of monitoring, evaluation
and feedback to GRZ and IDA is central. It is intended that the initial demonstration projects will be flexible to
incorporate lessons leamed during the project lifetime. Project success will depend on the extent to which critical
variables can be isolated and used in the planning of future urban projects. Based on the analysis of past
experience outlined above, monitoring of the demonstration component should answer key questions surrounding
the incentives for sustained service provision in low income areas.
21.    The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system of the URWSP (see Annex 2.10) will provide one of the
key elements of the capacity building component and a linkage between the demonstration and rehabilitation
activities. For the demonstration component two distinct roles of M&E aspects can be distinguished: the first
indications, related to the physical and financial progress of the project, e.g. funding, procurement and technical
construction, will be quantitative. The information will be gathered through standard reporting formats developed
under the URWSP. The second aspect of the M&E relates to the qualitative and process aspects of the project,
e.g.,. organization at the community level and the preparation of the STP. The information will be gathered
through qualitative reports submitted by the Project Design Consultants, supplemented by qualitative monitoring
undertaken by consultants to the DISS. The process-oriented nature of the project is designed to encourage



- 52 -
Annex 2.2
Page 11 of 11
communities and Project Design Consultants to try out different methods of organization and decision-making.
Given that information collected is expected to actively influence the progress of project implementation, it will
be important to match qualitative indicators to clear project objectives. A summary of indicators expected to be
developed within the project is given below.
Summary of Qualitative Indicators
Qualitative Indicator                          Project Objective
Conflict-resolution mechanism                  Learn about types of conflicts that arose and how they
were resolved
Settlement organization structure and composition  Learn about who has incentives to participate in
project related activities
Resource mobilization and sanctions mechanism  Evaluate whether demand-based approach is being
maintained and the role of participatory mechanisms
in decision-making
Interactions with Engineering Teams            Evaluate whether settlement organization can ensure
that technical colleagues listen and respond to
demands that result from the participatory process
V.    PROJECT COSTS
22.    The project's investment contribution for the demonstration component will be US$25 per capita (para
13). It is expected that around 10 percent of total project cost will be allocated to software activities of a
participatory preparation of the STP using the services of the design consultants. In communities where the
service level demanded requires a technology that exceeds the ceiling cost, communities will be expected to
contribute in cash to the capital costs.



- 53 -
Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 7
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOCAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE'
General Financial Condition of Municipalities
1.     Levels of municipality expenditure on basic urban facilities, both for operational and maintenance needs
and on capital investment, have been severely constrained by their failure to raise sufficient finance from their
own revenue resources and the limited availability of central government grants and loans.
2.     Municipalities' basic financial problems are compounded by generally very poor financial management
practices, which reflect a progressive deterioration in financial professionalism over the latter years of one-party
rule. Systems in some of the municipalities visited seemed virtually to have broken down. Symptomatic of the
situation is a failure everywhere to prepare final accounts for many years past. The matter is now being
redressed in a formal sense, but missing documentation renders the exercise of very doubtful real value. The
absence of reliable information on actual financial results for any recent year makes quantitative identification of
trends in municipality revenues and expenditures extremely difficult. The mission has been forced to employ
budget estimates for much of the analysis, but these are everywhere likely to represent an extremely poor guide
to actual reality.
Municipality Expenditure Trends.
3.    Budget evidence suggests that municipalities' real expenditures on urban services (as distinct from
administration) have mostly declined substantially in recent years on both recurrent and capital investment accounts.
Municipalities acknowledge that expenditures on staff have been excessive in terms of their proportions of overall
totals, and have embarked on ambitious establishment reduction programs. But the pace at which the reductions can
be achieved is constrained by their ability to afford termination payments. Promised central government grant
support towards the termination costs has not so far materialized.
4.     Municipal Government Revenues. For the municipalities visited, such budgetary and actual evidence as
can be assembled suggests that their total revenues have in real term declined substantially in recent years. Real
term reductions in central government grant support have been particularly severe, but are by no means the principal
cause of the overall falls indicated.
5.     Local Rates. The main local tax levied by municipalities is the rates (tax on built property). Budget
estimates indicate that the real yield of the rates fell substantially in nearly all municipalities in recent years up to
1992. Since then, all have made or are making very substantial increases in their rates poundages (property tax
tariffs), but the extent to which the resulting large rises in billings prove actually to be collected remains to be seen.
Representative domestic rates bills suggest that, in some municipalities at least, they may now approach
affordability limits for a significant proportion of ratepayers.
' This annex is condensed from a working paper prepared by Brian Binder, consultant, during two missions in January
and May 1994, on municipal government finance. The full report has been filed in the Africa Information Center in the
project file.



- 54 -
Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 7
6.     Although not wholly one-way, there is evidence to support the conviction in certain central government
quarters that municipality administration of the rates is often poor, from budget estimation, through rate poundage
fixing, to collection. Aside from increases which might be achievable through improvements to current standards of
administration, the yield of the rates would probably be substantially raised by legislative changes to improve
coverage and collectability, through removal of a number of exemptions and allowing municipalities the option of
rating occupiers instead of owners. Central government contributions in lieu of rates on its own properties are far
below the amounts properly payable on the basis of their rateable values (and the government has mostly not paid
the contributions in the last year or two). The Ministuy of Finance has said that it now proposes to pay contributions
at the same levels as other ratepayers.
7.     Presently each local govermment is responsible for its own rating valuations. Consideration should be given
to the merits of the alternative of centralizing the work in the Government Valuation Department.
8.     Other Local Taxes and License Fees.  Local governments also raise revenues from the personal levy (a
crude form of earned income tax) and fees for a range of trading licenses. In their present forms, at least, these
have fundamental drawbacks on equity considerations. With a few exceptions their present yields appear to be
relatively small, owing to collection problems coupled with low tariffs. Local governments also now retain the
whole of the vehicle license fees which they collect (formerly the bulk of the revenue was payable to the central
government). Again, low tariff levels and collection difficulties result in mostly small receipts; and the fees are said
unfairly to benefit a select few municipalities. It would arguably be fairer, and administratively more efficient, to
abolish all of these (with the exception of fees for licenses genuinely needed in the public interest) as local
government revenue sources, leaving the rates, improved in the respects proposed in paragraph 1.6, as the sole local
tax levied. Technical assistance is proposed to evaluate the current administration performance and the real potential
of the rates, and of the personal levy, and to examine further the case for a reform of the kind just mentioned.
9.     Water and Sewerage Charges. In three of the visited municipalities large increases in water and sewerage
service charges were made in 1993. Budget estimates for the year in two cases show revenues recovering to exceed
those of a few years ago in real terms. Whether these are actually realizable is open to doubt. Figures provided by
one municipality show actual receipts for the year far below their budget estimate, and cumulated outstanding
receivables at the year end amounting to more than 80 percent of cumulated billings for the last three years. That
municipality's domestic and commercial tariffs are very high compared to elsewhere, and domestic bills there may
have reached or exceeded affordability or willingness-to-pay limits.  Tariff scales and structures vary greatly
between municipalities. Except for Lusaka, where the water and sewerage company attempts to realize an annual
profit, there do not seem to be any explicit criteria in use when setting them. There is no evidence in general that
any detailed attention was paid to the affordability issue when they were set.
10.    Full recovery of service costs from all but the poorest consumer groups is recognized in principle as an
appropriate longer term charging objective for water and (perhaps more debatably) sewerage services. But its
implications for tariff levels are not quantifiable at present because the water and sewerage accounts do not include
all true costs - in particular, realistic depreciation or equivalent capital charges. This should be corrected, and the
operations placed on a genuine self-accounting basis; even though most of the budgets seen already show deficits,
and there is no real prospect of achieving full cost recovery in present conditions, the true level of public
subsidization, or under-financing, of the services would be thereby be exposed, and the measure would anticipate
the time when full cost recovery can be set as an operational target.



- 55 -
Annex 2.3
Page 3 of 7
11.    Public Housing Rents. The visited municipalities have also made recent large increases in their public
housing rents, though mostly not sufficient to keep up with general inflation.  Rents charged vary between
municipalities. Some claim now to be charging market rents for housing tenanted by local employers. The practice
followed in all of charging heavily discounted rents to personal tenants is questionable on several grounds, including
that it encourages profiteering, is inequitable and tends to distort the general rental housing market. Most of the
municipality budgets show surpluses on their public housing fund accounts, but these accounts are not charged with
depreciation and in most cases notional charges for rates seem unrealistically low. The (cash) surpluses seem mostly
to be used as a source of general revenue rather than for improving present very poor maintenance standards. There
is some evidence to suggest that rent collection performance, although perhaps achieving budgeted levels of income,
is very poor in relation to totals actually due and billed. As for water and sewerage services, housing ought to be
placed on a genuine self-accounting basis.
12.    Other Local Fees and Charges. There appears to be scope for substantial further increases in, and/or
intensification of, some other fees and charges, notably those for solid waste collection and for markets, both of
which seem mostly to raise only minor total sums at present.
13.    Revenues Collection Arrangements.  The practice of centralizing nearly all revenues collection in
municipality finance departments ought to be reviewed. Collection of service-specific revenues would almost
certainly be better devolved to the agencies responsible for their management.
14.    Revenues From  Commercial Enterprises.  In the visited municipalities it seems clear that their
commercial ventures in general are either inexpertly run or intrinsically unviable. Where surpluses are estimated for
1993, they are small compared to gross expenditures, and would probably convert to deficits if proper charges were
made to the accounts for depreciation, central administrative overheads and rates. They would be better disposed
of, the capital thus realized being used to finance the provision of urban infrastructure. The municipalities seem
rather to favor the establishment of wholly-owned but otherwise independent companies to be run as commercial
concerns, but experience elsewhere suggests that this would not be successful in practice.
Municipality Borrowing
15.    Municipalities routinely borrow on bank overdraft, on market terms, to mitigate their cash flow problems.
Central government is currently their only source for long term capital expenditure loan finance, mostly representing
on-lending of donor-sourced funds, and usually on very soft terms. Other state or private lending institutions now
perceive municipalities as poor risks. There are no current central controls over the totality of a municipality's long
term or temporary borrowing. Guidance, at least, on the matter, coupled with a central government guarantee
facility for those in compliance with it, might help to revive private institutional interest in longer term lending to
municipalities, once GRZ's own credit rating in the marketplace is strengthened.
Central Government Transfers
16.    Central government transfers to local governments are made in the forms of grants towards current
expenditure, and grants and loans for capital expenditure. They may be paid by a number of ministries. All local
governments, including the municipalities, are theoretically entitled to a "share of national sales tax" current
expenditure grant distributed annually by MLGH on a population basis. However in recent years no such
population-based grants have been paid to municipalities; instead MLGH seems to have made a few payments on a
case by case and ad hoc basis, such as to meet particular local cash crises or in an apparently random attempt to



- 56 -
Annex 2.3
Page 4 of 7
redeem promises to finance centrally-imposed salary increases and the cost of staff termination payments. Other
ministries may pay service-specific current expenditure grants, but for municipalities, at least, the incidence of such
few of these grants as have been paid appears to be haphazard, following no clear criteria. Capital grants and loans,
made by MLGH and some other ministries, are financed mainly by donors. Municipalities complain about the
unpredictability and apparent arbitrariness of the transfers system, and that promised grants often fail to materialize.
17.    The transfers system calls for rationalization. For municipalities new standard arrangements need to be
formulated which IBRD and other donors are able to support. They should reflect a coherent urban development
financing strategy; embody clear and open eligibility criteria; establish standardized terms for central government
loans, designed so as to, in the longer term, lead municipalities back to borrowing in the marketplace; assign
responsibilities clearly amongst the relevant ministries; and employ standard funds channeling systems. Technical
assistance to develop such arrangements is proposed for inclusion in the UWS Project.
Local capital receipts
18.    Aside from central government capital transfers, municipalities' main present source of local capital receipts
is the development levies chargeable on the allocation of title to undeveloped or under-developed land. There seem
to be considerable problems in collecting these levies. Changes to the system presumably have to await major land
reform legislation. In that context, options to be considered should include replacement of the development levies
with a capital gains tax on real estate sales, or with the allocation to local governments of a major portion of the
present central real estate transfer tax (reformed as necessary).
19.    Asset disposals are the other principal potential source of local capital receipts. The prime candidates for
disposal are the commercial undertakings discussed in paragraph _ and council-owned housing. The municipalities
visited either have already begun or are proposing shortly to begin to sell certain parts of their housing stocks. Rent
income foregone will be very modest compared with the potential financial or economic returns realizable from
investment of the sale proceeds. Consideration should be given to dispensing with the requirement for MLGH
approval of real estate disposals, perhaps substituting a restriction that sales may not be made below prices set by an
independent valuer, or by the GVD.
Municipal Budgeting and Planning
20.    There are so many serious defects in the annual budgeting process as to render the exercise almost
meaningless. It seems almost wholly to be in the hands of finance departments. Service departments are requested
to submit proposals (usually in September/October) but there is no prior strategic review of likely available
resources and spending priorities, and the received submissions are often ignored as being wholly unfinanceable.
Preparation of the budget document, done on computer in all the visited municipalities, is usually a lengthy process.
In only one municipality was the 1994 budget finalized; the remainder did not seem to expect finalization before
March - three months into the year. The drafts are submitted direct to the Finance and General Purposes
Committees with little prior consultation with their chairmen, or even with Mayors. Services committees are not
consulted at all.
21.    Budget formats in all municipalities visited are very similar, conforming with central guidance issued many
years ago. They consist of a number of summaries, followed by many pages of detail, in technical accounts format.
Not even the summaries are of any real use for informed debate on resources allocation, and nobody other than an
experienced local government accountant could be expected to be able to interpret the detailed tables. There is no



- 57 -
Annex 2.3
Page 5 of 7
supplementary data explaining service levels, etc., which might throw light on the implications of the proposals.
Further confusion is caused by liberal use of inter-vote recharges, many of which are not identified in the
expenditure analyses, and which lead to summaries including fictitious amounts of revenue and offsetting multiple
counting of expenditure. Presentation of the documents in computer printout format add to the comprehension
difficulties.
22.    Notwithstanding the dominance of the finance departments in budget preparation, the responsible officials
mostly show little awareness of the expenditure needs of the services for which they are budgeting, being unable to
quote basic operational statistics such as staff numbers, unit costs, and client populations served.
23.    The draft budgets presented to the Finance and General Purposes Committees generally show current
account deficits. The accompanying brief reports confine themselves to stating the proposed rate poundage and
increases in fees and charges estimated to be required to cover the deficit. Once agreed, the summary tables are
amended in accordance with the F&GP Committee decision, formally approved by full Council, and submitted to
MLGH for approval. The Ministry's approval is given very late; for 1993, in one case it was not received until
November of that year.
24.    The amendments to the draft budget summary made following F&GP Committee decision are not carried
into the detail supporting tables which allocate provisions over services. The latter cannot therefore function for
either of the two principal purposes of an annual budget, namely a) as the financial plan allocating resources for the
year; and b) as the basis for control of program implementation. Revised budget estimates are only produced
concurrently with the preparation of the budgets for the succeeding year. In view of the timing their approval
amounts merely to a retrospective endorsement of changes which have already taken place - often, on the
expenditure side, mainly reflecting the actions of officials.  Yet the variations from the original budgets are
frequently very substantial. One is led to the conclusion that for practical purposes there is no effective financial
plan governing municipality operations.
25.    Coping with Uncertainty.  Normal uncertainty in budget-making is greatly compounded in Zambia' s case
by the poor economic climate, high level of inflation, and unpredictably of central government decisions on matters
such as global pay increases and payment of grants. Budgeting procedures need to be able to cope accordingly.
One approach is to incorporate in budgets substantial reserves for contingencies, with proper political level approval
procedures governing their use. The alternative is to make regular supplementary budgets to effect adjustments; or,
as is the case in some countries, to enact budgets covering a shorter period than a year. However, either of the
latter are not practicable without fundamental improvements in the efficiency of current budgeting systems to
shorten preparation periods. A change from accruals to cash, or cash and expenditure commitments, as the basis for
budgeting and accounting would further serve the interests of greater certainty in planning and managing the
allocation of resources.
26.    Medium Term Financial Planning.   Neither for capital nor for recurrent expenditure do municipal
governments presently draw up indicative medium term financial plans. Such plans can provide a valuable
discipline forcing proper evaluation of the longer term financial implications of current decisions, including
identification of potential shortfalls in revenues and options for correcting them. Arguably, their introduction is not
practicable until economic conditions improve and stabilize; but work could begin now on developing a framework
for later implementation when feasible.



- 58 -
Annex 2.3
Page 6 of 7
27.    Budget Implementation and Control.    Regulations require that every commitment to expenditure
incurred by a spending department must secure the prior authorization of the finance department.  Such
authorization should be given by reference to budget votes; but in practice decisions appear to be taken rather
according to the municipality's cash position, and views on the degree of urgency or priority - confirming the
ineffectiveness of the current budgets. In two of the municipalities visited, the expenditure control system appeared
virtually to have broken down. Spending departments were incurring commitments on their own, subsequently
presenting invoices for payment, usually successfully.
28.    Receivables and Payables.      Although those visited could not provide comprehensive statements,
municipalities everywhere are thought to have large outstanding amounts currently receivable and payable (debtors
and creditors). They are believed to include arrears in the settlement of mutual obligations between municipal and
central government/parastatal levels in respect of rents, contributions in lieu of rates, water and sewerage charges,
electricity charges, and payroll deductions for taxes and superannuation fund contributions. Prompt recognition and
settlement of inter-governmental obligations is just as important as for any other. Failure to take them seriously on
either side is likely to sour mutual relationships and engender indisciplined "tit-for-tat" approaches to mutual debt
problem resolution. The Ministry of Finance has acknowledged the issue and is understood to be about to sponsor a
mutual debt offset and net settlement exercise between all public sector organizations.
Accounting and Monitoring
29.    Internal Financial Reports.   Finance directors are expected to report monthly to the F&GP Committee
on receipts and payments made. These reports are frequently submitted late, often by several months, owing to
delays in computer processing of the accounting records. They are compiled manually from computer printouts or
alternative sources. The expenditure report formats are of little use for the purposes of meaningful financial control:
expenditure is not cumulated for the year; no comparison is given with budget provisions; and no analysis is given
according to service or spending department. The income report formats are better, giving both cumulative figures
and comparisons with budgetary estimates for principal sources; but they give insufficient detail, do not follow the
same format as that of the budget, and sometimes mix accounting transactions with true receipts figures. No regular
statements of the municipality cash position in total or by fund account are provided.
30.    Bookkeeping and Accounts.   Until recently the municipalities had not prepared final accounts since the
mid-1980s. Three have now engaged consultants to prepare them up to date, while the fourth is undertaking the
work itself. The exercise is hardly meaningful, however, since many records appear to have gone missing. Like
that of the budget, the format of the final accounts presentation is so uninformative as to be almost meaningless.
There are no comparisons with budget provisions, no capital accounts, no sensible summaries, and no explanations
of balance sheet items.
31.    Three of the municipalities visited maintain all billings, personal ledger, payroll and expenditure and
income records on mainframe computers. They seemed wedded to the mainframe concept, and unfamiliar with the
power, potential flexibility and relative cheapness of modem  PC-based networked systems.  Municipalities
considering systems computerization or upgrades clearly need access to independent expert advice. In two cases
(Lusaka and Ndola) the systems, both employing very old technology, were found to be on the verge of total
collapse. Urgent replacement is required in each case with modern networked on-line systems, software and
printers. It is proposed to include this as a component of the UWSP.



- 59 -
Annex 2.3
Page 7 of 7
Internal Audit.
32.    An Internal Audit Division is currently located in the finance department of each municipality.  The
divisions seem often to be understaffed, and the impression gained was that they spend much of their time on the
routine checking of transactions within the finance department. Internal Audit should be a service to the whole
municipality, charged with the seeking out, not only of malpractice, but also of waste and inefficiency.
33.    Effective internal auditors need specialist training. Means of providing an appropriate training facility, to
develop a cadre of such expertise, need to be explored.
34.    The placing of the local government internal audit service within the finance department deserves to be
reviewed. In some other countries the independent status and high ranking of this service is emphasized by making
it responsible to the town clerk or equivalent top official, or even directly to the elected Council.
Financial Systems Reform
35.    There is an evident need for a full scale reform of the municipalities' entire financial systems and
procedures to bring them up to modern standards and to achieve effective internal financial control and
accountability. The reform must start from fundamentals, that is, review of the governing financial regulations, and
then proceed to cover the accounting framework, raising and recording of income, authorization of expenditure,
payment systems, budgetary procedures and format, financial reporting procedures and formats, format of final
accounts, a framework for the adoption of medium term financial planning, and computerization principles and
recommended configurations. Rather than rigid prescription of details, the reform should establish principles
accompanied by guidance giving models for municipalities to adapt to their particular needs. Supporting model
software would be designed, running on networked systems, to support all transactions, accounting and reporting
procedures. Additionally a budgeting module would be developed to allow rapid assembly of information, scenario
testing, and expeditious production of budget documents.  A major consultancy effort would be needed.
Development would need to be carried out in a volunteer municipality, and frequent consultation held with other
municipalities to ensure that the systems could adapt to varying detailed local requirements. Consultation would be
needed with other donors who may be addressing similar areas before the precise shape of this assistance could be
finalized.
Training Needs of Finance Staff
36.    The need for more formal local government and other public sector finance training facilities, indicated by
the municipalities visited, has apparently been recognized by the Lusaka-based Zambia Center for Accountancy
Studies. The Center is understood currently to be preparing residential courses leading to professional qualifications
at technician and full accountant levels, supported by GRZ with donor-funding from the EU. It would seem
desirable to involve the Center in some way with the systems reform exercise proposed in paragraph 1.32, to ensure
that the results are properly reflected in its courses.



- 60 -
Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 8
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUGGESTED MAIN TOPICS TO BE INCLUDED IN MODEL INTERIM
URBAN LOCAL GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL STANDING ORDERS
1.     General fiduciary responsibilities of Director of Finance, Town Clerk, Departmental Chiefs, and, in
their absence, their deputies or other stand-ins.
2.     Outline of the key features of the annual budget-making process and timetable, including the respective
roles of service departments, finance department, town clerk, service committees, F&GP Committee, and the
full Council.
3.     Minimum provisions regarding the annual budget format and the content of the accompanying report
of the F&GP Committee (drafted by the Director of Finance; to include the clear vote-by-vote identification of
expenditure provisions which may be committed without further reference to the Council or its committees (a
limited set of routine votes), all others requiring the further agreement of the Council or its committees under
delegated powers.
4.     Requirement for the annual budget to balance. (This in essence implies that:
a.     no expenditure may be included in the budget for which a financing source is not clearly
identified;
b.     recurrent expenditure may not be financed from borrowing, other than temporary borrowing
not exceeding a duly authorized limit; and
C.     capital expenditure may not be financed by temporary borrowing other than while awaiting its
re-finance from a clearly identified and certain financing source.)
5.     All borrowing (including from internal funds) to be authorized by resolution of the full Council in
plenary session.
6.     Provisions concerning the safe custody of cash and other assets; the prompt banking of all receipts;
and the prompt recording of, and accounting for, all receipts.
7.     Procedures for the remission, rebate and writing-off of debts due to the Council (full Council
agreement would normally be required).
8.     Prohibition of the incurrment of expenditure commitments which are not covered by an authorized
annual budget vote (not to include reserves and provisions, whether for contingencies or for any other purpose)
without the agreement of the Council in plenary session, including the passage of a resolution giving effect to
the necessary annual budget amendment.
9.     Provisions with respect to virement between expenditure votes/sub-votes.



- 61 -
Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 8
10.    Special procedures governing the appropriation to specified budget votes of amounts from reserves or
provisions (full Council approval would normally be required).
11.    Clear, quantified, specifications of the extent of delegated financial powers from the full Council to the
Mayor, F&GP Committee, service committees, Town Clerk, Director of Finance, and service department
chiefs.
12.    Limitation of the authority to sign cheques to a very few persons occupying specified posts within the
finance department only (including that of Director).
13.    Provisions concerning the investment of funds balances (GRF, self-accounting services funds, capital
funds, etc.).
14.    Responsibility of the Finance Director to ensure the maintenance of all financial records (whether or
not within his/her department) in an accurate and up-to-date manner.
15.    Reporting requirements:
a      by Director of Finance to F&GP Committee, to include monthly reports of cumulated revenue
and expenditure (accruals basis), and receipts and payments (cash basis) compared with
budget provisions (format to be consistent with that of the budget); cash position; outstanding
debtors and creditors; detailed arrears reports and actions taken and proposed;
b.     by Director of Finance concurrently with relevant service department chiefs to each service
committee, showing the same information as in a. in relation to the committees' own service
areas (cash position reports omitted except in relation to self-accounting services).
16.    Director of Finance to submit draft final annual accounts (subject to external audit) to the full Council,
through F&GP Committee, by a prescribed latest date; basic content and format of the final accounts document
to be specified (inter alia, format must be consistent with that of the budget; comparisons must be given with
the latter, and with previous year's actuals; capital accounts to be included; balance sheet items must be
analyzed and explained).
17.    Director of Finance to report annually to the full Council, through F&GP Committee, on the report on
the annual accounts made by the external auditors, within a specified period from its receipt, responding in
detail to points raised therein.
18.    Rights and responsibilities of the Council's internal financial audit service (currently under the
management of the Director of Finance, but should be given an independent status in relation to the conduct of
its work and the submission of its reports direct to F&GP Committee and the full Council).



- 62 -
Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 8
CENTRAL TRANSFERS TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS - BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.     Before 1979, a system of grants to local authorities was in use by the government. Some eleven
different types were available including matching grants and those designated for specific services. Over the
years this system has been dissolved and currently most grants are allocated at the discretion of the Minister of
Local Government and Housing.
2.     Analysis of local government fund sources clearly shows the reality of substantial reductions in
government transfers to local governments. For example, in 1987 government introduced regulations which
committed to provide 35 percent of local sales tax as a central transfer to local governments. This was
introduced to provide funds that were needed to cover declining real incomes as a result of inflation. Actual
figures' suggest however that the amount released to local governments has not matched the commitment.
Only in 1987 and 1988 was the 35 pe--ent target met with a gradual decline to 22 percent in 1991 and falling
to 4 percent in 1993.
3.     Grants to councils have been authorized under the Local Government Act [Number 22 of 1991],
Section 45 which reads:
"(1)   The Minister may, on such terms and conditions as he may determine, make grants or loans
of money to a council for purposes of the discharge by the council of any of its functions.
"(2)   Any grants or loan made by the Minister under this section shall be paid out of moneys
appropriated by Parliament for the purpose.
"(3)   The Government may make specific grants to the council concerned for:
(a)    water and sanitation;
(b)    health services;
(c)    fire services;
(d)    road services;
(e)    police services;
(f)    primary education;
(g)    agricultural services."
Types of Central Transfers
1.     Central transfers to local governments through the Ministry of Local Government and Housing
(MLGH) comprise:
*  recurrent expenditure grants;
*  capital expenditure grants; and



- 63 -
Annex 2.4
Page 4 of 8
loans for infrastructure projects.
Most of the latter two transfer categories are foreign funded and all are specifically tied to named
projects.
2.     There are eight classes of recurrent grants, these are:
a.     Grants made in lieu of rates -- amounts payable by the central government to all local
governments instead of rates on the properties within its ownership (houses, offices and
industrial premises). 1994 budget' K74.2 million.
b.     Share of local sales taxes -- 35 percent of the total collected disbursed to district councils.
This replaced the former deficiency grant which funded the difference between the approved
expenditure commitments of a council and the amount that could be raised locally. There is
no formula for its allocation. 1994 budget Ki ,293.1 million.
c.     Beer surtax grant -- payable to rural districts and not to the cities and municipalities but is
only released when the council has produced its annual accounts. It is apportioned out
amongst districts on the basis of population and land area. No for local governments under the
1994 budget.
d.     Gwembe Special Fund Grant -- paid specifically to three councils within which families
displaced as a result of the construction of the Kariba dam live.  It covers the cost of
providing basic services to them. 1994 budget K4.5 million.
e.     Grant for the operation of the National Fire Service Training School. 1994 budget K47.1
million.
f.     Local Authority Superannuation Fund Grant -- grant to assist councils in paying retirement
benefits to former employees. 1994 budget K40.3 million.
g.     Grants for the maintenance of water and sewerage systems. 1994 budget K1,155.O million.
h.     Grants for the rehabilitation of roads. No specific provision under the 1994 budget.
2.     Under the 1994 budget, the total recurrent grants to be provided to the MLGH for local governments
are recorded at K2,614.3 million, with capital grants and loans standing at K22,230.1 million. A further
K3,463.2 million is provided for the capital outlays of the Ministry itself.
3.     Other central government ministries may also pay grants towards local government current
expenditures on services such as roads maintenance and personal health.



- 64 -
Annex 2.4
Page 5 of 8
Current Policy
1.     Government policy is now for city and municipal councils to become self sufficient in financing and
for the current level of grants to rural districts to be gradually reduced. The apparent reason for this change in
government policy was that the Minister of Finance was no longer prepared to provide block grants without
specific commitments to their use.
2.     Grants are transfers of central government revenues and enable local governments to draw on revenue
sources which are administered at national level. In the past most grants were non-specific and most were used
to pay wages and salaries. However evidence shows that many councils have not received grants for recurrent
expenditures in recent years. With the reduction of the sales tax grant, capital grants are mainly financed
through donor or project aid. Nevertheless councils have complained that transfers, although committed, often
are not released.
3.     Central government transfers for capital investment appear to follow no rules as to their form, whether
grants or loans, and there is no consistency in terms of loans. There is no formula in use at MLGH to
determine the allocation of capital grants and it is understood that arbitrary distributions are made. The same
criticism appears to apply in the case of grants made by other ministries. Projects are financed on a specific
basis which often reflects the wishes of the donors. Recent studies have shown that there is a need for the
government to formulate new arrangements for central transfers to local governments.
Current Proposals
1.     The latest thinking on the status of grant financing is reflected in a study commissioned by the MLGH
under the Interim Local Government Project financed by ODA. Preliminary conclusions are contained in a
draft report titled Financing Local Government dated April 1994. The coverage of this study and the findings
of the report however are to be revised in the light of comments from the government through the consumption
of additional consultants input. Clearly the government accepts the need for a review of the necessity of grant
financing for local governments and wishes to adopt a methodology for its equitable allocation.
2.     Summary recommendations of the report which were based on the discussions held with officers of
MLGH, Cabinet Office and Budget Office and the need to maintain consistency with section 45 of the Local
Government Act, were that grant distribution should in future be made for specific services.
3.     The basis of the recommendations is to relate grants to match funding deficits and to take into account
revenue collection efficiency and service provision performance (management efficiency and effectiveness).
The methodology suggested was:
a.     determine the total size of grant for each local government;
b.     determine the grant required for each service in each council; and
c.     provide a formula for the distribution of grant money by MLGH to local authorities.



- 65 -
Annex 2.4
Page 6 of 8
4.     The formula recommended for adoption was:
Total proposed grant allocation to each council equals the fund deficit, which is computed as the
difference between the calculated base cost of providing a minimum reasonable level of service and the
locally generated income comprising service charges, rates, personal levy, local levies, commission on
central government licenses collected, profit from commercial enterprises and other income, per head
of population multiplied by the population. Its allocation amongst services is based upon a weighted
average percentage of deficits for each service within the sampled local authorities as a proportion of
the total deficit and applied to the total figure.
Recognizing the limitations of this method the study recommends that "because of the weakness of the
extrapolation method outlined above, a far more detailed method of grant determination and distribution should
be worked out in due course".



- 66 -
Annex 2.4
Page 7 of 8
PROVISIONAL FORM OF LOCAL COUNCIL RESOLUTION CONFIRMING AGREEMENT TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE PHASE I ASSISTANCE
Resolved:
I.     The Council do receive and welcome the report (on the proposed URWSP investment program and the
related technical assistance) as a major initiative to strengthen its ability to finance and manage the provision of
essential public services to meet the highest priority needs of all its citizens, including the most deprived.
2.     The Council do recognize the crucial importance for the success of the project of its establishing
effective, efficient, and accountable financial management systems and practices throughout its organization.
3.     Accordingly, the Council do cordially extend its cooperation, and that of all its officials, in the joint
examination, with the appointed consultants for the financial management improvement component of the
URWSP technical assistance, of the scope for upgrading its basic financial systems and procedures in the near
term.
4.     The Council do confirm its readiness in principle expeditiously to adopt and implement the financial
management improvements recommended under the technical assistance, including adoption of a basic set of
Financial Standing Orders, subject to the submission of a further report on the detailed recommendations, when
formulated.



- 67 -
Annex 2.4
Page 8 of 8
LOCAL GOVERNMENT SUPPORT PROJECT (LOGOS)
Background
1.    Following support for an Integrated Rural Development Project in Northern Province and
subsequently the Central Province District Development Support Project (CPDDP) during the 1980s a GRZ
and ODA review team concluded that the benefits achieved would not be sustainable unless the approach was
extended nationwide and the MLGH assumed responsibility for strengthening district councils' capacity to
manage their own affairs. During 1992 and 1993 the Overseas Development Administration of the British
Government (ODA) supported inputs to the formulation of a plan for decentralization. There followed a
Finance Training Project (FTP) based in the Ministry of Finance. The LOGOS Project is a natural extension
of these earlier efforts.
2.    In 1993 ODA in consultation with GRZ agreed to support a nationwide project in capacity building
and training support for the Zambian local government system. LOGOS is an institutional development project
designed to support Zambia's Public Sector Reform Project (PSRP) through capacity building activities in local
government. The project will run from April 1994 until March 1997, in the first instance and is estimated to
cost 5.3 million. It is being carried out by a consortium of consultants under the guidance of a steering
committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MLGH.
3.     The project consists of two main components: (a) a general management strengthening component and
(b) a financial management strengthening component. The project is based upon a process approach to
capacity building. The role of the consultancy team is to operate as trainers and "process" consultants in
MLGH, provincial headquarters and district councils. The general management strengthening component
involves the provision of two advisers in MLGH and nine Provincial Management Training Advisers. The
financial management strengthening component involves the provision of a Finance Training Coordinator,
three senior finance trainers and nine finance trainers operating through provincial local government offices.
The provincially based consultants (18) are Zambians.
4.    In terms of financial management the objectives of the project are to assist GRZ in the following areas
of district council management.
(a)    Financial Policy
(b)    An overhaul of local revenue collection procedures
(c)    Improvement in the fields of budget planning, accounting and record keeping
(d)    Improved financial reporting and annual account preparation
(e)    Establishing management information systems
(f)    The establishment of commercial accounting procedures for council commercial ventures
(g)    Establishing the internal audit function and rebuilding the external audit system.



ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND HOUSING
MINISTER
PERMANENT
SECRETARY
lllI . ..l. .                                                 I
LEGAL          LOCAL          PHYSICAL    INFRASTRUCTURE      HUMAN           LOCAL
SERVICES      GOVERNMENT       PLANNING        SUPPORT       RESOURCES       GOVERNMENT
ADMINISTRATION      AND           SERVICES         AND           TRAINING
HOUSING                     ADMINISTRATION    INSTITUTE



ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND SUPPORT SERVICES
APPROVED ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
PERMANENT SECRETARY
DIRECTOR
ASSISTANT
DIRECTOR
.. I            I  .Ic
PRINCIPAL     PRINCIPAL      PRINCIPAL
ENGINEER      ECONOMIST      ENGINEER
(FEEDER                     (WATER &
ROADS)                     SANITATION
SENIOR        SENIOR         SENIOR   .    SENIOR
ENGINEER      ENGINEER       ENGINEER       ENGINEER
(URBAN ROADS):   (FEEDER       (WATER&        (OTHER
ROADS)      SANITATION)     SERVICES)
Note: MLGH is seeking NORAD support for contractual employment
of a community-based development specialist, recruitment of whom is
a condition of effectiveness.



- 70 -
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                        Annex2.6
Page 1 of 4
1995                        1996                         1997
ID    Task Name                                    F|M|A|M|J  JA|S                                                      JANF|M|A|M  DJJIAISIINIDIJ|F|M|A|M|
I    PROJECT LAUNCH                                                   9/18
2    PROJECT MID-TERM REVIEW
3    A. W&S REHABILITATION
4        DESIGN (NORAD)
5             Contract award
6             Design rpt - Level 1
7             Level 1 design compl. Ilevel 2 design r
8             Level 2 design - decision point                               12129
9             Level 2 design completed
10        LEAK DETECTION (NORAD)                                     y
11            Study
12            Leak Detection                           -
13        CONSTRUCTION (IDA)
14   Level 1                                                                           __
15            Level 2 decision                                                                   5115
16            Level2
17        TA-CMT
18   B. W&S MANAGEMENT OPTIONS
19    INSTITUTIONAL                                                                        _
20            Contract award
21            Operational & financial projections
22            Initial report
23            Review of options                                                12/29
24            Final report
25            Policy seminar                                                                  7117
26            Approval of institutional structures                                            7/17
27            Approval of business plan                                                          8/15
28            Legislation approved/operations begin                                                       12/16
Task                                     Rolled Up Task
ZAMBIA: Urban Restructuring            Progress                                 Rolled Up Milestone K
and Water Supply           Milestone                                 Rolled Up Progress
Summary



- 71 -
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                       Annex 2.6
Pane  2 of 4
1998                        1 999                       2000                        2001                        2002
J IF|MIAIMIJ |J |ATISOINID J IF1MIAIMIJ IJ |A|S|O|N|D J FIMIA|MIJ[J |A |S|O|N|D J IFIMIAIMIJ |J |A|S|O|N |D J|F IMIMIJ|JAS
12/1
Task                                    Rolled Up Task
ZAMBIA: Urban Restructuring           Progress                                 Rolled Up Milestone  >
and Water Supply           Milestone                                Rolled Up Progress
Summary



- 72 -
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                    Annex 2.6
______________________________                                               ~~~Page   3   of   4
1995           |           1996                       1997
ID   TaskName                                  FTMATMrJ J AS OIN D J FMIAIM J|J|A|S|O|N|D|J|F|M|A|M|J|J|A|S|O|N|D
29       TARIFFS                                                                     I"
30           Tariff structure evaluated
31           Principles of tariff structure approved                    12/15
32            New tariff structure designed
33           Tariff structure approved                                                    7/15
34   C. MUNICIPAL FINANCE STRENGTHENING
35       Contract award
36       Interim rpt (REAP/SIAP/comp. design)
37       Decision on REAP                                                 12115
38       Interim rpt (long-term fin. sys improv)
39       Final report - Phase I
40       Decision on Phase II                        .617
41   D. OTHER - CAPACITY BUILDING TA
42       TOR agreed                                l
43       Contract award
44       Establish M&E system for project
45       Develop work program
46       Baseline data collection                                              -
47       Legislative review
48       Resource allocation system                                                         -
49       Develop capital investment programs
50       Phase II financial management              .-
51       Project oversight and assessment
52   E. DEMONSTRATION                             _ 
53       TOR agreed                                 i
54       Contract award
55       Implementation                                                    -
56       Initial assessment                                                               7/17
57       Mid-term assessment                                                                                       6/17
58       Program continuation
Task                                   Rolled Up Task
ZAMBIA: Urban Restructuring          Progress                                Rolled Up Milestone
and Water Supply          Milestone                               Rolled Up Progress
Summary



- 73 -
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                     Annex 2.6
Page 4 of 4
1998                       1999                        2000                        2001                       2002
Task                                    Rolled Up Task
ZAMBIA: Urban Restructuring           Progress                                Rolled Up Milestone 0
and Water Supply          Milestone                                Rolled Up Progress
Summary



- 74 -
Annex 2.7
Page I of S
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION SYSTEM
1.     Objectives of the Monitoring and Evaluation System. The Urban Restructuring and
Water Supply Project will build institutional, financial and technical capacity in the project areas so
that future urban investment programs are built through a decentralized, demand-driven planning
process. The project's immediate investment focus on water supply and sanitation infrastructure is
not only because water and wastewater deficiencies are recognized as among the most severe
service problems, but also because this 'single-sectoral' investment program enables the project to
test out what works and what doesn't work in institutional and financial arrangements before a
wider multi-sectoral demand-driven approach can be operationalized beyond this point.
2.     The Monitoring and Evaluation system, therefore, can be viewed in terms of two aspects:
*  A 'doing and learning' process via water and sanitation initiatives taken under the
Rehabilitation and Demonstration components, in which the quality of technical
assistance and investment progress will be monitored and tracked;
*  Building up a cost-effective process of collecting information, consulting with
stakeholders (representatives of GRZ, Councils, commerce and industries and urban
residents), training, and technical assistance.  This could help design future urban
investments that are (a) responsive to user needs, and (b) efficient in the operations and
maintenance of existing assets as well as in the selection of new investments.
3.     The project expects to incorporate the lessons learned from each stage of implementation in
the subsequent phases of the project cycle.  In other words, the program of investments and
technical assistance will depend on the quality of the Monitoring and Evaluation system.
4.     Types of Information to be Collected and Data Gathering Responsibilities.  The
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system has two distinct aspects. The first relates to tracking
quantitative information showing financial and physical progress in achieving project milestones.
The second relates to qualitative or process aspects, the object of which being to review the quality
of project implementation, so that there is an opportunity to change or modify the succeeding year's
program design. The latter depends on the extent to which information gathered enables GRZ and
the International Development Association understand what appears to be working and what isn't
during the course of project implementation in each of the project towns.



- 75 -
Annex 2.7
Page 2 of 5
5.       Information for the M&E system is proposed to be collected from the following sources:
Quantitative information                      Qualitative information
. From  GRZ financial monitoring                       Developed specifically
systems                                                or the URWS project
.From  Councils' records                               Documented during consultative
.Collected by project                                  process, workshops, seminars,
consultants during studies                             and supervision missions
and design work
.Compiled and collated                                 Analyzed jointly by GRZ
by DISS                                                and IDA
6.       Clearly, M&E of the project's performance requires a collaborative effort involving all the
project stakeholders.   Table  I below  suggests a possible division of reporting  responsibilities
between the different stakeholders, which can be confirmed during the Project Launch Workshop.
Project operational responsibilities are suggested to be with the staff of the DISS at the national
level, and Town Clerk's office at the town/city levels respectively, under overall direction and
guidance of MLGH. Project consultants at the national and town/city levels are expected to provide
technical assistance in specific functions, as specifically described in their respective TORs.
Table 1. Suggested M&E Responsibilities
National Level                                          Council Level
MLGH                                                    CitvyTown Council
-For policy and overall guidance                        (Advises MLGH/DISS)
-Overall guidance to ensure that stakeholder consultations is
representative and participative
-Enforcement of financial obligations required by project
covenants
DISS                                                    Town Clerk's office
-For operational management of project, ensuring project  (Report to DISS)
implementation in accordance with Loan Agreements       -Supervision of contracts in investment programs
-Administrative Monitoring and Evaluation system        -Provision of information for Capacity Building component
-Evaluation of training programs, and operational follow-up
Proiect Consultants                                     Consul tants/contractors
(Report to DISS)                                        (Report to DISS through Town Clerk)
-Coordinating Water and Sanitation project components   -Project designs
-Assisting Councils in operationalizing consultative process  -Physical works
-Recommending to DISS alterations in Capacity Building  -Training activities
components (if required)                                -Execution of project-specific studies
-Facilitation of participative planning exercises
7.       Suggested Quantitative Indicators.  Table 2 below  describes the types of quantitative
information recommended for collection during project implementation.



- 76 -
Annex 2.7
Page 3 of 5
Table 2. Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanisms for URWS Prject
Source                               Indicators                                          Collection process
Water Supply Data from project       Physical                                            Project Consultants--
cities/towns                         No. Of water connections                            Council--DISS--MLGH--
.Execution of investment (%)                        IDA
.Rehabilitation of water network (Meters)
.Rehabilitation of sewerage network (Meters)
.Number of connections rehabi I itated
Operational
.Water service coverage (%)
.Sewerage service coverage (%)
.Volume of water produced (million m3)
.Volume of water billed (million m3)
.Unaccounted for Water (%)
.Connections Billed by Metering/Total Connections (%)
.Number of connections (000)
.# Permanent Employees/I000 Connections
.# Permanent and Temporary Employees/ 00
connections.Personnel Cost/Operating Cost
Financial
.Average Operating Revenue (K/m3)
.Average W&S tariff (K/m3)
.Average Operating Cost (K/m3)
.Working Ratio (%)
.Operating Ratio (%)
.Accounts Receivable (days)
.Debt Service Coverage (times)
.Internal Cash Generation/lnvestment (%)          __         __
Standard GRZ Physical/financial      Fundnsi                                             Project Consultant--
reports                              Sources of funds; budgets; legal documentation      Councils--DISS--MLGH--
.Authorization for release of funds                 IDA
.Workplans; Physical works report
.Community contributions received
procuremen
Dates when
.Contracts proposed
.Company registrations; long list
.Decree for bidding committee
TOR
.Notice to Proceed
.Completion certificates received
.Physical works document
Technical Assistance
.CVs received
.TORs completed
.Work plans
.Contracts
. Reports on consultant performance
Demonstration Project                Physical                                            Demonstration Project
Consultants'Quarterly reports        Execution of investment (%)                         Consultant_Council_DISS
.Execution of investment (US$000)
,Levels of service proposed in Demonstration
Component
Organization of Community
.No. Of meetings in CAP preparation
.Who & how many attended meetings
.Description of existing water user groups
.Estimated cost of construction
.Community contributions
-in cash
-in labor
-in materials
.Legal/regulatory action taken (eg pro-erty easements)
Conflict resolution mechanisms
.Description of community groups active in service
I provision                                         I



- 77 -
Annex 2.7
Page 4 of 5
8.     Suggested Qualitative Indicators. The project has a high share of investments going into
technical assistance, in encouraging communities to try out different methods of participating in
project decision-making. After the initial help given to organizing community groups through
RDCs and water and sanitation user associations, they are expected to mobilize resources, resolve
conflicts, and exercise voice over key decisions (such as, the level of service, coverage, operations
and maintenance, etc.)
9.     The information will be analyzed and documented, so that project develop the succeeding
year's investment program. The responsibility for this vital function will be with DISS, with
assistance from  project consultants and the International Development Association.   Some
suggestions on how this can be done are given below.
10.    The project design has already built-in a substantial role for the consultant teams for all
three components.
(a)    For the Demonstration Component
*  Structure and composition of community organizations. Table 2 proposes that
information be collected on the types of community organizations active in
each demonstration project areas. In some, for example, active community
groups (youth clubs, local church, women's' organizations) could be playing a
leading role; in others RDC representatives may be active; in yet others a few
community leaders may be taking all decisions. The structure of these groups
could later help explain why some community organizations performed better
than others in operating and maintaining their water supply facilities.
*  Conflict resolution mechanisms.  Community organizations are expected to
develop internal methods of regulating service delivery, collecting resources
for operations and maintenance, etc. During these activities, conflicts among
members are likely to arise (such as disputes over rights of construction on
private lands, low pressure for tail end users, excessive water usage by persons
with house connections, political and sectarian disputes, etc.), and an
important M&E function is to track how these conflicts were either resolved or
further aggravated. These lessons will help evaluate whether the community
organization has the capacity to manage its infrastructure in the post-
construction phase when there is no longer any technical assistance and
training support.
*  Resource mobilization and enforcement mechanisms. The project envisages
mobilization of resources and enforcement of community commitments as
agreed in the Compound Technical Plans. Questions such as, how resources
were collected, when they were collected, whether repairs were promptly
undertaken, are again key question to be answered before long-term
sustainability can be assessed.
*  Interactions with engineering teams.  A fourth set of qualitative indicators
relate to the extent of 'ownership' by communities towards the physical
infrastructure constructed. Consultants Reports and field visits could describe



- 78 -                          Annex 2.7
Page 5 of 5
how far community organizations were involved in finalizing engineering
design, monitoring contractor performance, etc
(b)    For the Water Supply Rehabilitation and Capacity Building Components
In these two components, qualitative evaluation is proposed through reports based
on quantitative information collected, analyzed and findings discussed through a
series of consultations between project design and construction teams and principal
stakeholders (ie Councils, commercial and industrial representatives, RDC
members, local residents). This process is expected during the implementation of
the various consultancy studies in the Water Supply Rehabilitation and Capacity
Building Components. In the Water Management Options Study, for example,
consultations with these stakeholders (at the Project Launch Workshop in
September 1995, and a Water Sector Management Options Seminar in March
1996) will form key milestones through which the study recommendations will be
finalized.
11.    These reports, together with information gathered from the quantitative indicators (see
Table 4.2) will form the basis of documentation by DISS of the implementation processes. These
reports should bring to the attention of MLGH and Bank missions the lessons learned from field
reports.



ZAMBIA
Urban Reconstruction and Water Supply Project
Supervision Plan
Approximate             Activity                                Key Issues                                Staffing             Staff Weeks
Date
5/95      Supervision (PPF/NORAD)    DISS staffing                                         Task Manager                         8
PPF mobilization                                    Urban Dev. Spec.
Coordination with LOGOS Project                     Financial Analyst
Water Supply & Sanitation (WSS)                     Water Resource Specialist
Rehab. Design mobilization
Water resource management
WSS training plan (PCU)
9/95      Proiect Launch Workshop      Implementation arrangements                         Task Manager                        20
Supervision                 Project concept                                      Facilitator
M&E concept                                         Urban Dev. Spec.
REAP/SIAP                                           Engineer
Financial management computer system design         Financial Analyst
Level I rehabilitation design                       Community Dev Spec
Leak detection and repair                           Environ. Specialist
Level If rehabilitation preliminary design
1/96      Supervision                  M&E system final design                             Task Manager                        12
Water & Sanitation management options final report  Urban Dev. Spec.
Level 11 rehabilitation design                      Financial Analyst
Demonstration project-community mobilization        Engineer
Municipal financial system improvements             Community Dev Spec
Capacity-building work program/data needs
Training needs (PCU/IDA TA)
7/96      Policy Seminar/Supervision   Water policy seminar                                Task Manager                        16
Decision on Level 11 investments                    Financial Analyst
Municipal finalice - Phase I report/Phase II proposals  Community Dev Spec
Capacity-building TA                                Engineer
Water Econ/Water Resource                                        Id
Spec.                            >_     _
11/96      Annual Review                M&E: review of targets for coming year              Task Manager                        12
( SD
_____________ ________________________ Supervision  plan  for coming  year           Urban  Dev'. Spec.            _________
C



Approximate             Activity                               Key Issues                                Staffing              Staff Weeks
Date
WSS Copperbelt business plan                        Engineer
Levels I and 11 construction supervision            Financial Analyst
Urban legislative review                            Community Dev Spec
Municipal decision-making/resource allocation system
Demonstration project - participating compounds
Training needs
3/97      Supervision                  To be determined                                    Task Manager                         6
Engineer
Urban Dev. Spec.
7/97      Supervision                  To be determined                                    Task Manager                         6
Engineer
Community Dev Spec
i 2/97     Mid-term Review              M&E: review of targets for coming year              Task Manager                        16
Supervision plan for coming year                    Urban Dev. Spec.
WSS management - status report                      Engineer
Levels I and 11 - review of completed works         Financial Analyst
Demonstration project evaluation/decision on expansion   Community Dev Spec
Detailed review of each council's progress to date  Water Economist
Municipal capital investment programs               Environmental Specialist
Urban legislative reform - progress report                                                                            o
Water resource management
Capacity building assessment
Lessons learned
6/98      Supervision                  To be determined                                    Task Manager                         2
12/98      Annual Review/Forward        M&E: review of targets for coming year              Task Manager                        14
Planning                     Supervision plan for coming year                    Urban Dev. Spec.
Demonstration project evaluation/ Municipal         Engineer
management status report                            Financial Analyst
Forward planning                                    Water Economist
Water Resources Spec.
6/99      Supervision                  To be determined                                    Task Manager                        1.5
12/99      PCRlPre-Appraisal            M&E: review of targets for coming year              Task Manager                        12
Identification of follow-on project                 Engineer
Financial Analyst
Community Dev Spec                                                d
Urban Dev. Spec.                                                 es_>
ax
0



- 81 -
Annex 2.8
Page 3 of 4
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1.  IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL TABLE OF CONTENTS
2.   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
3.     PROJECT SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES
I      Detailed Project Description
2      Project Organization
3      Project Management Systems
4      Roles, Objectives, Responsibilities, and TORS
4.   LOGISTICS AND COMMUNICATIONS
I      File Index/Filing/Library
2      Protocol for Copy Distribution
3      Computer Management and Operation
5.   POLICY FRAMEWORK
1      Water and Sanitation Sector Policy
2      Local Government Act #22 of 1991
3      Draft Housing Policy
4      Additional Relevant Acts and Policies
6.   PROJECT PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION
I      URWSP Implementation Schedule
Implementation Schedule - Water and Sewerage
Implementation Schedule - Demonstration Projects
Implementation Schedule - Financial Management Strengthening
Implementation Schedule - Planning, Management, Capital Programming
2      Council Management Strengthening TOR (PPF)
3      Rehabilitation Component Design and Implementation TOR
4      Waer Management Option Study TOR
5      Demonstration Project Design TOR
6.     Planning, Management and Capital programming TOR
7.   HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
I      Training and associated TORS
2      Transfer of Expertise Guidelines
3      Seminars and Workshops
4      Implementation Review of Human Resource Development



- 82 -                                 Annex 2.8
Page 4 of 4
8.   ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PLAN AND MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS
9.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
10.  COVENANTS AND TARGETS
11.  PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES, BIDDING DOCUMENTS, EVALUATION
REPORT FORMAT & MONITORING SYSTEM
I      Procurement of Works
2      Procurement of Services
12.  DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
I      Special Account
2      Statement of Expenditures
3      Payment Procedures for: suppliers, contractors
4      Demonstration Component Payment Procedures - Small Works
13.    ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
13.1.  REPORTING
I      Reporting Schedule
2      Status of Accounts
3      Status of Major Problem Areas and Suggested Solutions
4      Activity Progress Reports
5      Contract Status and Payments for Works, Goods, and Services
Contracts Awarded, Signed Contracts, Disbursement
6      Audit Report Timing, Status, etc.
13.2.  PROJECT MONITORING
I      Project Progress (responsibilities, timing, etc.)
2      Monitoring of Covenant Compliance
3      Monitoring of Performance
4      Monitoring of Project Impact on Beneficiaries
13.3.  MONITORING INDICATORS
13.4.  PROJECT SUPERVISION
I      Overall Supervision (schedules, staff, responsibilities, etc.)
2      Supervision of the Review Process
3      Mid-Term and Annual Reviews
4      Project Completion Report
ANNEX
A. I    World Bank Procurement Guidelines
A.2    World Bank Consultancy Guidelines
A.3    Standard Contract Documents for Goods, Works & Services
A.4    Accounting and Auditing Guidelines
A.5    Miscellaneous Terms of Reference



ZAMBIA
URBAI  RE SRUCTURIING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DatlO  PrJect Ctb
IN ZAMBIAN KWACHA                                                                                           IN US DOLLARS
LM401 I Been CoBb                   Lgvei 2 Bma Costa                     Totl B.* Costa                            Laol I B_a COsWa         Leavn  2 Ban Co           Total 12Be  CooF
Laye lo 1              tw I--[                Local       Tta        Fo,uy       Local        Ttl     otTPC        Forig    Local   Totlid  Forv    Local   Total  Forei     Locad    Total  TP
Part A W      ma_ Saus
CHINGOLA
Wae               40529.44   123393.88   532423.32   995011.38    416349.8  1411361.18  1403540.82   340243.68   1943784.5                  618.934  187.718 so6.702 1507.59 630.833 2133.43 2126.58 318.551 2945.13
Stai              42618.18    42618.13    85236.36    21062.58      21062.6    42125.13    63630.76    63630.78   127361.54                64.573  64573  129.146  31.913  31.913  63.826  96.486  96.436  192.97n
Total C oda                                                                                                       2071146.04                                                                                  3138.1
KITWE
Wds                649476.3      39030.7      733507           0           0            0    649476.3     39030.7      73807              9s4.055 134.395 1118.95         0       0        0 9s4.055 134.895 1118.95
S_mitbo           660481.14   660481.14  1320962.23   14266.76    144266.3   288533.56    304747.9  804747.94  1609495.34                   1000.73  1000.73 2001.46 218.586 218.586 437.172 1219.32 1219.32 2433.63
Total Kitvo                                                                                                       2348002.4                                                                                  3557.58
LUANSHYA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       00
Wow               1011225.6   416359.02  1427534.62    69230.04    16441.92    35671.96  10o845564   432300.94  1513256.58                  1532.16 630847 2163.01  104.394  24.912 129.806 1637.05 655.759 2292.31
santaio                   0           0            0    32163.12    32163.12    64326.24    32163.12    32163.12    64326.24                     0                0  48.732  48.732  97.464  48.732  48.732  97.464
Totl. Luliya                                                                                                       1577532.82                                                                                2390.23
NDOLA
WSe               4891I.34   116668.86    597560.7   413696.58    61316.26   475512.34   39458s.42   17385.12  1073073.54                  728.624  176.771 905.395 626.813  93.661 720.474  1335.4  270.432  1625.87
Suttao             203791.5    203791.5      407583   232823.58   232323.53   465647.16   436615.03   436615.08   873230.16                308.775 308.775  617.55 352.763 352.763 705.526 661.538 661.538 1323.08
Total, Ndola                                                                                                       1946303.7                                                                                 2948.95
KAFUE
Wae               161860.33    49445.22    2113056   120521.94    32037.72   152559.66   232332.32    31482.94   363865.26                 245243  74917  320.16 182.609  48.542 231.151 427.s52 123.459 551 311
Sutitatio                 0           0           0            0           0           0            0           0           0                    0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0        0
Total Kafue                                                                                                        363865.26                                                                                 551 311
MAZABUKA
Wda               144168.42    33817.08    177985.5    147549.6      34610.4      182160   291718.02    68427.48    360145.5               218 437  51.238 269.675  223.56   52.44       276 441.997 103.678 545.675                          t
Sataim               132559      152559      305113       152559      152559      305113      305118       305118      610236               235 15  231.15   462.3  231.15  231.15   462.3   462.3   4623    924.6                           P
Total Mamzbka                                                                                                       970381.5                                                                                 1470.26                       q  >
LtVINGSTONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C
Wae                       0           0            0   529972.08   227131 08   757103.16   529972.08   227131.08   757103.16                     0       0        0 802.988 344.138 1147.13 302.988 344 138 1147.13                          
Satation                  0           0            0       9108s 0     91030      132160        91080       91080      132160                    0       0        0     138     138     276      138     138      276
Totl, 1itn                                                                                                         939263.16                                                                                 1423.13



IN ZAMBIAN KWACHA                                                                                      IN US DOLLARS
Level I Base Costs                Level 2 Baue Costs                  Total Base Costs                         Level I Bae Cosu        Level 2 Bae Costs        Total Base Costs
I  I                                                                                       I                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foreig
Foreign as %                                                                        as % of
Foreign     Local      Total      Foreign      Local      Total      Foreign     Local       Total   ofTFC        Forein  Lo       T      Foreign  Local   Total  Foreign  Local   Total TPC
MUFULIRA
Water             224056.8    70435.2     294492      132825       56925      189750    356881.8   127360.2      484242              339.48  106.72   446.2  201.25   86.25   287.5  540.73  192.97   733.7
Sanitation              0           0           0          0           0           0          0           0           0                   0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Total, Mufiluri                                                                                                 484242                                                                               733.7
KALULUSHI
Water             162350.1    43338.9      205689      106260      45540      151800    268610.1    88878.9      357489              245 99  65.665  311.65     161      69     230  406.99  134.67  541.65
Sanitation          56925       56925      113850      56925       56925      113850     113850      113850      227700               8625   8625   172.5   86.25   86.25   172.5   172.5   172.5    345
Total Kululuslu                                                                                                 585189                                                                              886.65
Total. Water                                                                           5757625.5 1833841.04 7591466.54         76%                                                   8723.7  2778 5  11502    7 6%
Total, Sanitation                                                                     1847254.86  1847254.92 3694509 78        50%/                                                  2798.9  2798 9  5597 7    50/
Total, works                                                                         7604880.36  3681095.96  11285976.3       67%                                                    11523  55774   17100    67%
TA for water and sewer system management                                                6798000      594000    7392000         92%                                                    10300    900   11200    92%
TOTAL, component                                                                     14402880.4 4275095.96  18677976.3        77%                                                    21823  6477.4  28300    77%
Part B Coasusity Based Demoastution Prjects
Coenmuruty projects                                                                     2574000      726000    3300000                                                                 3900    1100    5000
hutional support                                                                          66000      264000      330000                                                                 100    400    500
TOTAL, component                                                                       2640000      990000    3630000                                                                 4000    1500   5500    73%
Part C Refor, md Capaity Building                                                                                                                                                                                         4-
Water Sector
(i) water yrtem management option and (ii) policy studies                               1056000      264000    1320000                                                                 1600    400   2000
Urban and Water Sector:
(i)LocalGovernmentcapacitysrengthenmigand(ii)pplnning. management endcapital progrmnming  2729100    462000    3191100                                                                 4135     700   4835
Project-related TA.
(i) Accountg suppt                                                                        66000       66000      132000                                                                 100     100    200
(u) Audit fees                                                                            33000       33000       66000                                                                  50      50    100
(iii) Procurement                                                                         33000       33000       66000                                                                  50      50    100
TOTAL                                                                                   3917100      858000    4775100         82%                                                     5935    1300   7235    82%
PPF Relasacing                                                                           504900      132000      636900        7P/                                                      765     200     965    79%
(related to Past C(l) above)
Total Coas                                                                            21464880.4 6255095.96 27719976.3         77%                                                    32523  9477.4  42000    77%
Physcial contingencies                                                                   858000      396000    1254000                                                                 1300    600    1900
Prior contingencies                                                                     1320000      396000    1716000                                                                 2000     600    2600
Total Projet Costs                                                                    236428804  7047095.96 306899763          77%                                                    35823   10677   46500    77%          p.
Taxes                                                                                              368280      368280                                                                         558     558                0 > >
Project cots, net oftaxes                                                            236428804 667881596  303216963                                                                  35823   10119  45942                  Ili tO
doc:excel p:\gniem\nx\projcst.xls                                                                                                                                                                                           
I-t 



- 85 -
Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 1
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year                    Quarterly         Cumulative       Disbursements as
and Quarter,                     Disbursements      Disbursements    % of Total Credit
ending
FY 1996           30-Sep             I *1
31-Dec             0.5                1.5
31-Mar             0.8                2.3
30-Jun             1                  3.3                10%
FY 1997           30-Sep             1                  4.3
31-Dec             1.6                5.9
31-Mar             2                  7.9
30-Jun             2                  9.9                30%
FY 1998           30-Sep             2                 11.9
31 -Dec            2                 13.9
31 -Mar            2                 15.9
30-Jun             2                 17.9                54%
FY 1999           30-Sep             2                 19.9
31-Dec             1.7               21.6
31-Mar             1.7               23.3
30-Jun             1.5               24.8                75%
FY 2000           30-Sep             1.5               26.3
31-Dec             1.5               27.8
31-Mar             1                 28.8
30-Jun             1                 29.8                90%
FY 2001           30-Sep             1                 30.8
31-Dec             1                 31.8
31 -Mar            0.7               32.5
30-Jun             0.5               33                 100%
*Includes US$0.965 refinancing of PPF



ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
AUDITING REQUIREMENTS
The Project                     Water and Sanitation Rehabilitation                Demonstration Component                    Institution and Capacity Building
Type of      Annual         Special      Statements of      Annual         Special      Statements or     Annual         Special    Statements of      Annual         Special       Statements of
audit:     Project        Accounts      Expenditure        Local       Account - A    Expenditure         Local       Account -    Expenditure        Local       Account - C      Expenditure
Account                                     Government                                     Governmen          B                         Governmen
Account                                       t Account                                   t Account
Entity to be
audited
Ministry of    Organizes       Organizes      Organizes       N/A            Organizes      Organizes        N/A            Organizes    Organizes       N/A            Organizes       Organizes and
Local Govt.    audit and       all audits     audit and                       audit and     audit and                       audit and    audit and                      and submits    submits to IDA
and Housing    submits to      and submits   submits to                       submits to    submits to                      submits to   submits to                     to IDA
IDA            to IDA         IDA                             IDA            IDA                            IDA           IDA
Chingola       a.              a.             a.               b.            a.             a.                b.            a.           a.               b.            a.              a.
Kafue          a.              a.             a.               b.            a.             a.               na             na           na               b.            a.              a.
Kalulushi      a.              a.             a.              b.             a.             a.               b.             a.           a.               b.            a.              a.
Kitwe          a.              a.             a.              b.             a.             a.               b              a.           a.               b.            a.              a.
Livingstone    a.              a.             a.              b.             a.             a.               na             na           na               b.            a.              a.
00
Luanshya       a.              a.             a.              b.             a.             a.               b              a            a.               b.            a.              a.
Lusaka         a.              a.             a.              na             na             na               b              a            a.               b             a.              a.
Mazabuka       a.              a.            a.               b.             a.             a.               na             na           na               b             a.              a.
Mufulira       a.              a.            a.               b.             a.             a.               b.             a.           a                b             a               a.
Ndola          a.              a.             a.              b.             a.             a.               b              a            a.               b             a               a.
a. Compiles and submits all information required for the audit to MLGH.
b. Submits audited annual accounts to MLGH as part of reporting requirements. Annual audits of local govemments not required for purposes of IDA ARCS.



- 87 -                           Annex 4
Page I of 4
ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
1.     OVERVIEW
The appraisal follow-up mission conducted an environmental analysis, and came to the
conclusion that the overall environmental impact of project investments will be positive. The
emergency phase measures being supported by the project, in fact, are designed to restore
community access to clean water and sanitation.  Negative impacts could be adequately
mitigated and managed during project design and implementation.
Environmental concerns are being addressed in all three components of the project:
*  While implementing the emergency phase measures, as an essential component of design
and construction contracts;
*  While implementing the Demonstration component, through the consultative processes in
which pern-urban communities define their local environmental priorities, and
*  Through the process of participatory planning recommended under the Capacity Building
component of the project.
Some of the principal environmental issues, and how the project proposes to deal with
them are discussed below.
A.    Environmental issues in the Emergency Phase measures
Issue 1: Increase in water supply will improve access to clean water for communities, and
thereby have an overall benefit.
Table I summarizes the impact of the emergency phase investments on improving urban
access to water supply. These investments will ensure that production is restored to original
design capacity in project cities and towns.



- 88 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
Table I
Town                 Current              Expected              Increase in
Production           Production           water supply
(mid)                (mid)                (mid)
Kitwe                 56                   84                   28
Ndola                147                   212                  65
Chingola              22                   30                   8
Kalulushi             18                   18*                  0*
Luanshya              11                   28                   17
Mufulira             23                    33                   10
Kafue                22                    30                   12
Mazabuka              6                    7                     1
Livingstone           32                   46                   14
* Replacement of existing supply from ZCCM (not immediately) by groundwater.
Water production in Livingstone includes increase because of African Development Bank
investments. Source: Project Files
Issue 2: Effects of increased abstraction
The proposed increase in supply will restore the level of abstraction of water to
previously designed levels in the rivers (where applicable), and amounts to a relatively small
fraction of overall flows. Extraction of groundwater in Kalulushi was recommended after
hydrological surveys have confirmed ground water potentials to support the proposed level of
abstraction. The overall impact on groundwater abstraction will be positive because more
consumers will be able to meet their water requirements from piped water supply.
Issue 3: The environmental impact of abstraction, transmission and treatwork works
As the proposed measures are mainly rehabilitating existing plant and equipment, they
will safeguard existing infrastructural assets from deteriorating further, and thereby arrest the
negative impacts currently being faced by urban residents.  Further, the project design,
construction, management and training consultants are required to ensure that water quality of
bulk supply meets acceptable environmental standards.
Issue 4: The environmental impact of additional water supply distribution
Investments in leak detection equipment for the water distribution network are a major
focus of the project. However, there is a recognition, based in past Council experiences, that
merely providing the equipment is not enough; incentives need to be built-in for their proper
utilization.  The project  proposes to test alternative institutional arrangements (such as,



- 89 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
subcontracting actual testing for leaks, involving local community groups etc.), to be finalized at
the level of participating municipal, city and town councils.
The project also proposes to develop procedures so that actual distribution of water is
based on demand considerations. In other words, by using a tariff structure based on marginal
cost pricing, and by better utilization of metering for large consumers, both distributional
efficiency and equity are proposed to be maintained.
Issue 5: The local environmental impacts of additional wastewater generated
The project will support investments for the emergency rehabilitation of wastewater
conveyance infrastructure. In addition, studies are proposed to review and evaluate:
-   Past investments in conveyance and collection systems in the copperbelt towns and Lusaka,
and
-   Feasible sanitation solutions for built-up areas that are served with house connections/yard
taps and inadequate wastewater and sewage disposal arrangements (notably Council-owned
housing in Copperbelt towns).
Issue 6: The environmental impact of additional wastewater on natural resources
The project is supporting investments designed to rehabilitate sewage treatment facilities
in order to mitigate negative impacts of wastewater on natural resources. The question of re-
using treated wastewater for peri-urban farming and pisciculture will also be evaluated.
Issue 7: Kafue River Basin Water Resource Management
Much of the project investments are taking place in the industrial and commercial zones
along Kafue river. A component has been included to prepare and introduce a water resource
management and environmental monitoring program for the Kafue River Basin. This component
is consistent with the project objectives in the towns located within the river basin. The
Environmental Council of Zambia has prepared a Kafue River Basin Environmental Monitoring
Program, which it has not been able to implement due to lack of funds. The TOR for this
component will coordinate with and support the Environmental Council's program.
Institutional issues during Project implementation
The project preparation and implementation is designed within the framework of GRZ
and World Bank Water Resources policies and guidelines. The terms of reference of all
engineering studies follow the principles laid down in OD 4.01 of the World Bank.
In order to further strengthen the process of public consultations, the original design of
the Capacity building component was modified as follows, based on the suggestions given by
Councilors and Council officials:



-90-
Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
*  Provision for a consultative process during project management.  Plans, priorities,
implementation schedules and potential environmental impacts will be discussed with
representatives of principal stakeholders (such as, Councilors, Industrial and Commercial
establishments, domestic consumers of services, and peri-urban consumers of services).
*  This consultative process will be designed not only to build linkages between Councils and
other urban stakeholders, but also vertical linkages within councils. Any additional training
and technical assistance required will be financed under the Capacity Building component of
the project.
*  This consultative process will also set project benchmarks appropriate for each individual
council, and enable stakeholders to participate in the monitoring and evaluation of project
performance.



MAP SECTION






IBR0 26587
2~                          26                           2SM                                                         ''                            .
Z A M BIA
? URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                                                                     TANZANI
PARTICIPATING  COUNCILS                                                                                M                          .my
- PARTICIPATING COUNCILS           TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS
0  S,ELECTED CITIES             - RAILROADS                                         K~~~         
 PROVINCE CAPITALS     ~       -RIVERS/
NATIONAL CAPITAL                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES 
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                       KSM
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
~~~~~~~~~~~  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T .,
0Zon,bezZ   A(I  R                           
Kalobo                                                                                            ANGOLA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I00L
-MP.              Moop         iOO    o oo, 
0Z.b~zm                                                                                     CIPAA            M    LAW
GABOONAN
--           *-'   ROTSWANA                26                          28                           30~~~~~~~~~N.-                                                    JANGAYLA












