Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24019
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27250; PPFI-P9090)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.3 MILLION (US$33.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
URBAN RESTRUCTURING & WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
06/20/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (K)
K3760 (as of December 31, 2001) = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = K660 (as of January 31, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                               Country Assistance Strategy
CDC                               Commonwealth Development Corporation
CU                                Commercially Viable Water and Sanitation Utilities
DCA                               Development Credit Agreement
DISS                              Department of Infrastructure and Support Services
ESAC                              Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
EU                                European Union
GDP                               Gross Domestic Product
GRZ                               Govemment of the Republic of Zambia
IDA                               Intemational Development Association
IFC                               Intemational Finance Corporation
LG                                Local Govermment
MLGH                              Ministry of Local Govemment and Housing
MEWD                              Ministry of Energy and Water Development
M&E                               Monitoring and Evaluation
MOFED                             Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
NWASCO                            National Water and Sanitation Council
NORA                              Norwegian Agency for Dev. Coop. (NORAD)
O&M                               Operations and Maintenance
PO                                Private Operator
PPF                               Project Preparation Facility
SDR                               Special Drawing Rights
SOE                               Statement of Expenditure
TA                                Technical Assistance
TOR                               Terms of Reference
URWSP                             Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project
WSS                               Water Supply and Sanitation
ZCCM                              Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:  Alain Locussol (Acting)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   N. Jane Walker



ZAMBIA
URBAN RESTRUCTURING & WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               28
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                             29
Map: IBRD 26587






Project ID: P003241                                       Project Name: URBAN RESTRCT &WATER
Team Leader: N. Jane Walker                               TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: URBAN RESTRCT &WATER                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-27250;
PPFI-P9090
Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                               Region. Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: UY - Other Urban Development; WI.U - Urban Water
Supply
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/10/1994                             Effective: 02/25/1996          02/15/1996
Appraisal:  06/30/1994                                MTR:   11/15/1998          11/15/1998
Approval:  05/16/1995                              Closing: 12/31/2001           12/31/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of Zambia/Ministry of Local Government and Housing - Department
of Infrastructure Support Services
Other Partners: Norwegian Agency for Dev. Coop. (NORAD)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                            Callisto Madavo
Country Manager:     Yaw Ansu                                   Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:      Alain Locussol (Acting)                    Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader at ICR:  N. Jane Walker                             Imogene jensen
ICR Primary Author:   Paola Ridolfi; Lu Kang
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) are as follows:
(a)    provide immediate solutions to the most severe water and sewerage infrastructure



deficiencies in nine key urban areas;
(b)   test out community-generated and managed water and sanitation demonstration projects
which meet articulated needs at an affordable price while strengthening local councils' capacities
to support community based initiatives in Lusaka and the participating Copperbelt councils; and,
(c)    initiate broader institutional and financial reforms required for providing organizational
incentives for investing in, operating and maintaining infrastructure based on residents' perceived
needs and willingness to pay.
The initiating factor in the formation of the project was the Government's perception of an
immediate need to rehabilitate the water and sanitation systems in nine major urban areas
following a cholera outbreak in 1993. This focus prevailed in the project design as the majority of
the project was structured around short-term objectives aimed at urban water and sewerage
infrastructure rehabilitation. The second objective, to reach consumers outside of the reticulated
systems, was more innovative. This objective was to develop six pilot projects to provide for
immediate water needs but also to serve as demonstration projects based on community managed
models. Lessons learned from these pilots were expected to institute a more comprehensive,
community-based system to provide a range of basic services to poorer neighborhoods for
follow-on projects. The third and final objective was more long-term in nature as it was aimed at
strengthening capacity within municipal councils.
The nature of the objectives, as designed, were therefore two-fold: to address short-term water
sector infrastructure needs while also laying the foundations for longer term municipal
institutional change and reform. Over time, the institutional arrangements that underpinned the
original design of the project were affected by the Government's decision to revise management
responsibilities in the sector. The client Ministry for the project - the Ministry of Local
Government and Housing (MLGH) - was the responsible party, through local government, for the
provision of all urban services, including water and sanitation at the time of the project design and
appraisal. The capacity building and institutional restructuring within the project was aimed at the
municipal councils in anticipation of the forthcoming decentralization policy. The authority for
the provision of water and sanitation services changed radically after the passage of the 1997
Water and Sanitation Act and the responsibility for service delivery for water and sanitation
moved from the local authorities to autonomous bodies - called Commercial Utilities (CUs) as a
result of this legislation. In fact, the legislation which provided for legal establishment of the
Commercial Utilities did not fully take effect until June 2000, largely due to Government delay in
deciding Ministerial responsibility for the regulatory authority. During this period of delay,
municipal government departments ran the water systems, but without conviction, waiting for the
CUs to formally take over. While part of the TA supported by NORAD assisted the CUs with
computers, vehicles, and office equipment, the NORAD TA designed to help with utility
management came to an end before the CUs were legally established. Further, the reform of the
water and sanitation sector was led by the Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW), who were not
an integral part of the project, and were fully supported by other donors, the most dominant was
GTZ. GTZ actively supported the regulatory authority - NWASCO - who also comes under the
MPW.
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised. QAG conducted two Quality at Supervision Assessments, in
1997 and in 1999. The second assessment concluded that the project should have been
restructured at Mid-Term Review. The observation by QAG was unworkable because of the
lumpy nature of the majority of capital investments as about 85% of the credit was already
committed, with about US$20 million worth of civil works under contract by November 1998 -
the Mid-Term Review. At this point the project was "locked in" and was on its way to meeting
the main project objective - rehabilitating the capital works. (See para 5.4)
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised three components as follows:
(1) water supply and sanitation system rehabilitation (US$17.10 million, 57 percent of total IDA
project base cost, (see Annex 2); -- restore water treatment facilities to design capacity and
ensure more reliability of water and sewer services to more than 1.5 million individuals in nine
urban centers. NORAD contributed US$11.2 million to the project for design and supervision
costs; TA assistance to DISS with regard to financial management and procurement, and TA for
assistance with the CUs. All of this assistance fell within Component 1. Towns rehabilitated are
summarized below in Table 1.
Table 1: Major Towns and Design Populations - at Appraisal
Council        Total        Pop. With       Estimated       Total
Population    Household    Population Served  Population
(estimate)   Connections     by Standpipes    Served
Chingola             370,000       207,000            11,000    218,000
Kafue                 200,00C      120,000           22,000     142,000
Kalulushi             150,00C       90,000                       90,000
Kitwe                 400,00C      127,000           120,000    247,000
Livingstone           120,00C       70,000            18,000     88,000
Luanshya              200,00C       50,000                       50,000
Mazabuka               42,00C       11,000           21,000      32,000
Mufulira              200,00C      134,000           20,000     154,000
Ndola                 600,00C      348,000           198,000    546,000
TOTAL             2,282,000      1,157,000          410,000   1,567,000
(2) community-based water and sanitation demonstration projects (US$5.6 million, 19 percent of
total project base cost); --were implemented in about six peri-urban communities; to extend water
supply to at least 250,000 low-income people in Lusaka and the Copperbelt councils.
(3) local government reform and capacity building (US$7.2 million, 24 percent of total project
cost); -- an integrated program of policy and institutional reform and capacity building is required
to achieve the project's objectives of promoting sustainable, locally driven and managed provision
of urban services.
-3-



The rehabilitation component (Component 1) focused on emergency investments in the most
urgent public health-related deficiencies in the water and sewerage treatment works of the nine
participating councils, with the aim of immediately improving water quality and reliability,
restoring bulk water supply and reducing the most critical water contamination. Components (2)
and (3), on the other hand, were designed to have a longer term impact, to develop working
models of sustainable water supply and sanitation systems in peri-urban areas and supporting
policy and institutional reform and capacity building programs at the municipal level, respectively.
3.4 Revised Components:
No revisions were made to the objectives of the components but Component 2 was reduced in
size as Lusaka City did not take part in the community-based pilot schemes activities. Further
savings from Component 2 were transferred to Component 1 to cover cost overruns on the civil
works component.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's Quality at Entry is assessed on the basis of (a) the consistency of objectives with the
CAS and government priorities, (b) the Bank's environmental policies, (c) the quality of the
design, and (d) the reasonableness of assumptions regarding relevant external risks.
The project's objectives were consistent with the CAS and the government priorities. The project
supported the World Bank strategy in Zambia as defined in the Report and Recommendation of
the President for the Economic and Social Adjustment Credit of February 15, 1994, and reflected
in the Letter of Development Policy and in the 1994 budget. The strategy identified water and
land management as the two priority areas. In particular, water issues included industrial
pollution from the mines, urban water supply and sanitation, and watershed management.
Improving the delivery of social services was part of the Government of Zambia's strategy of
adjustment, growth and poverty reduction to be attained through decentralization of responsibility
for service delivery. In water and sanitation, the government strategy included the separation of
water resource management and water supply and sanitation functions; separation of
regulatory/supervisory and executive functions; devolution of responsibility for service delivery to
local authorities; and promotion of user and community participation, hygiene education; and
improved cost recovery. The SAR indicated limited capacity of local governments and
communities to identify, plan, implement, and sustain urban infrastructure investments as the main
project risk. The SAR stated that these risks could be mitigated by limiting initial investments and
by orienting a significant part of the project towards technical assistance, including studies and
training packages to be monitored during annual reviews. The original capital works that had
been identified during the initial feasibility studies were valued at about US$45 million. The
works actually funded under the credit were about 50% of this amount, in keeping with a risk
mitigating policy of limiting the initial investments under the project.
Environmental policies. The SAR indicated that the project would have a positive environmental
impact by improving general environmental conditions in all project councils. For example, a
number of civil works contracts included rehabilitation of sewerage works and repairs of sewer
pipes. An in-depth Environmental Assessment as part of supervision was conducted in May 2000
and it confirmed that the overall environmental impact of the project would be positive. There
- 4 -



was no involuntary resettlement envisaged under the project and no significant environmental and
social issues arose during project implementation as the project was focused on rehabilitation.
Quality of design. The mismatch between the regulatory frameworks required to meet the
long-term institutional objectives of the project, and the shorter term and more immediate physical
output objective is seen as a major design flaw. This was, in part, the result of the incomplete
reform and state of flux of the regulatory framework for the water and sanitation sector at the
commencement of the project.
The broad scope of the project objectives was not captured among the project risks identified in
the SAR, however, the primary objective of providing improved service delivery through
rehabilitating water and sewerage infrastructure was adequately designed and achieved. The
timing and implementation of the water sector reforms should have also been considered as a
potential risk in achieving all the objectives. The Bank, however, was not the leading agency in
the policy dialogue on water sector reforms as these were considered to be adequately supported
by other donors. The Bank continued to concentrate on decentralization and municipal reforms.
On balance, the quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory with respect to meeting the full
objectives of the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
and 4.2 Outputs by Components
The project had three objectives which correspond to the three outputs of the project.
Objective 1: Provide immediate solutions to the most severe water and sewerage infrastructure
deficiencies in nine key urban areas.
Outcome: The nine major rehabilitation contracts (one in each of the nine regional towns in the
project) are all complete and in operation. Site visits were undertaken on the last field supervision
mission (November 2001) and all systems were in good operational order, reliability of water
production and waste water treatment has improved, and water quality controls are working. For
example, most plants are operating at the rehabilitated water and wastewater design capacities,
basic records of water delivered being kept, refurbished and equipped laboratories being used,
basic water quality tests being carried out daily and records kept. Samples for bacteriological
analysis were also being taken and being sent to laboratories for testing. Water being delivered
from the plants appeared to be meeting required standards. Chemical stores at most water
treatment plants are now well-stocked with aluminum sulphate and all chlorinators were in
operation. The exception is Kafue where performance of the rehabilitated works is poor. Kafue
is the only system still operated by the Council, all others are operated by the autonomous
commercialized utilities. Kafue however will be taken over on a temporary basis by the Lusaka
Water and Sewerage Company.
The cost of the civil works contracts increased over the project to about US$26.1 million as a
result of numerous variation orders and cost overruns. At closing, the cost of Component 1 had
- 5 -



increased to about 70% of the project cost. All 60 small contracts awarded for minor leak repairs
(water distribution system, private property water leaks, communal standpost rehabilitation and
sewer unblocking), costing about US$1.5 million equivalent, have been completed.
The NORAD funding under the project supported TA to the CUs during their early formation.
While the CUs remain problematic with respect to full financial viability, they are certainly a
significant step forward with respect to furthering the initial reforms in the sector.
Achievement: The Achievement of the objective is considered satisfactory
Objective 2: Test out community generated and managed water and sanitation demonstration
projects which meet articulated needs at an affordable price while strengthening local councils'
capacities to support community based initiatives in Lusaka and the participating Copperbelt
councils.
Outcome: The schemes were designed to pilot community managed projects in selected
communities and their main objective, and corresponding outcome, was to provide useful lessons
for future interventions. The schemes are set out below in Table 2. An independent study
conducted at the end of implementation of the six schemes analyzed and summarized the many
lessons learned. These lessons will provide the basis for designing future operations in the
country. For example, while designed to test a demand-responsive approach, the schemes resulted
instead in a supply-driven project. The following summary of lessons of experience were
identified in the independent assessment of the schemes:
1.    Have more information on the peri-urban areas available to the design team.
2.    Include on the appraisal team an engineer with solid experience of low-cost peri-urban
systems that include private connections.
3.    Have good data from Commercial Utilities on actual operation and maintenance costs of
peri-urban schemes during appraisal.
4.    Place first priority on helping existing peri-urban schemes to become financially viable.
5.    Develop the capacity of commercial utilities to manage and possibly extend service in
peri-urban areas.
6.    Include a household census as a preliminary step in preparing any rehabilitation or new
construction projects.
7.    Include post-construction management assistance for any new schemes.
8.    Try to limit capital costs using per capita limits
9.    Ensure demand-led response through clear community contributions in cash.
10.   Provide for adequate supervision by the World Bank.
The component had originally been budgeted for US$5.5 million, however, the final amount was
US$3.0 million. The original design population to be served was 250,000, however about 71,000
were provided with improved systems. Works on all six schemes were completed after a delayed
start, however, the works were commissioned and the defects liability periods were completed
before the end of the project. The quality of works in all cases were of a good standard.
-6 -



At the time of handing over to the communities, final details on how the systems were to be
operated and maintained were unclear. It appears that of the four schemes which are served with
a bulk supply from the CU, the CU will be involved in the management of the distribution system,
even if only to provide technical assistance to the RDCs/ community groups. Other than the
deepwell/handpump scheme installed in one community, communities do not appear to have the
capacity to operate and maintain the fairly sophisticated systems involving pumps, motors, switch
gear, ground and overhead reservoirs. The financial management and sustainability of the
schemes are also in question as in four of the schemes they are linked to the CUs who themselves
are financially very fragile.
Achievement: The primary achievement of the objective is the capturing of lessons learned which
will be incorporated in future activities. The achievement of this objective is considered
satisfactory.
Table 2: Community Based Demonstration Project - at ICR stage
Peri-Urban      Location      Size-                         Comments
Scheme       Town & CU      people
served
Racecourse     Kitwe- Nkana   20,000        35 kiosks with bulk meter with storage and overhead tank
*   technical management of scheme beyond capabilities of
community and RDC to perform
limited financial management maybe within communities
capabilities.
Chibote        Kalaulushi -   4000          25 hand pumps on boreholes - stand alone - Note - Scheme
Nkana                   is expected to be serviced with municipal council engineers - not
CUs
Kanyala Bunga  Ndola- Kafubu 5,000          Water supplied directly to 16 stand posts from CU (Kafubu)
rising mains - bulk meter; one community with two sections -
original community and "overspill" area.
l    Original community had supply on mains but it was broken
,down
Buntungwa      Luanshya-      10,000        32 kiosks with bulk meter with storage and overhead tank
Kafubu                       technical management of scheme beyond capabilities of
community and RDC to perform
limited financial management maybe within communities
capabilities.
Kapisha        Chingola -    20,000         40 kiosks with bulk meter with storage and overhead tank
Mulonga                      technical management of scheme beyond capabilities of
community and RDC to perform
.    limited financial management maybe within communities
capabilities - record keeping for collection and remittances
Murundu        Mufulira       12,000        stand-alone borehole system of 4 boreholes with a ground
Mulonga                 reservoir and overhead tank piped to 31 kiosks
technical management of the scheme beyond capabilities of
the community and RDC to perform
costs of the system (electricity) are likely to be high
limited financial management maybe within community
I___ __ __ __   Icapabilities
TOTAL                         71,000  1
-7 -



Objective 3: Initiate broader institutional and financial reforms required for providing
organizational incentives for investing in and operating and maintaining infrastructure based on
residents' perceived needs and willingness to pay.
Outcome: The main focus of the institutional components was on capacity building and financial
strengthening of the municipal councils. Important studies and technical assistance activities were
completed under the project. A major part of this component was Phase I and II Urban Local
Government Capacity Strengthening (ULGCS) TA. The costs of both phases was about US$5
million. The study set out a comprehensive plan to help build capacity in local authorities. Under
the TA, financial systems and controls were introduced and computers provided to the local
authorities. Various on-site training in financial management was undertaken. Information
systems, internal audit control, and revenue enhancement were introduced. With regard to
revenue enhancement across the 10 towns, about US$900,000 was collected in FY2001. One of
the major features of the TA was to undertake audits for the nine towns councils covered under
the project. In some cases audits had not been undertaken for 10 years. The studies are expected
to support the GRZ's decentralization initiative by strengthening municipal councils and local
governments and providing the ground work for a proposed follow-on urban focused
development project. Already the restructuring for Livingston Municipal Council is being
supported under the IDA SEED project.
Achievement: The policy framework with regard to the water sector took shape over the project
period and, in fact, supported the works constructed under the project, though the IDA
components did little to support this reform directly. The main capacity building component
supporting municipal councils did not contribute substantially to the institutional impact of the
project in the water sector but it will provide an important basis for the design of the new
operation in support of decentralization. Overall, the achievement of the objective is considered
satisfactory .
4.2 Outputs by components:
see above.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A simple cost-benefit analysis was undertaken for the purposes of the ICR. No economic analysis
with regard to the calculation of an NPV, ERR or IRR was evident for the original project nor
was it set out in the SAR. The ICR analysis uses the costs for the major civil works that represent
the majority of costs for the project. Benefits are the increase in water production associated with
those works, adjusted for losses at about 35% and valued at an average "tariff" rate. The analysis
uses a proxy for the tariff rate based on detailed willingness to pay studies and affordability
studies undertaken for six of the nine towns in the service area which have experienced improved
production capacity and increased reliability of services. This study was undertaken as part of the
preparation of the follow-on project.
The analysis presented indicates a negative NPV of over US$5 million. Overall benefits for eight
sites indicate a benefit of just over US$1 million per year (over a 20-year time horizon) with
capital costs in the early years of about US$14 million. (See annex 3). Benefits from the
- 8 -



investments could be greatly enhanced through better demand management, installation of meters,
and small value expansion to the distribution system.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The rigor of financial analysis was a neglected area of the project. No detailed financial
statements of the municipalities appear in the SAR, however a main thrust of the technical
assistance for the municipalities was the TA in this specific area through the Local Government
Capacity Strengthening TA. By the end of the project, all councils had been audited, accounting
packages had been installed, computers had been made available and training had been given;
internal audit controls were implemented; a Flat Rate Property Tax By-Law had been introduced;
and restructuring plans with respect to rationalization of staff and retrenchment conditions had
been agreed between the staff and the councils' management. The implementation of these
reforms will be aided by the commencement of the follow-on project and the passage of the
Decentralization Policy which will clarify further all functions to be handled by district (including
municipal) administrations.
Given the profile of the investments in the project, the supervision missions had an interest in the
operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated water and sewerage facilities and the financial
viability of the CUs was an important consideration. After the Mid-Term Review, it was apparent
that insufficient attention had been devoted to the financial viability of the CUs. A review of the
CUs carried out during supervision shortly after the MTR indicated that they were all bankrupt
and could not provide enough revenue flow to support chemical treatment to provide safe water.
The Mission sought bi-lateral assistance for financial supervision and a Danish consultant,
supported by bi-lateral funding, joined the remainder of the supervision missions over the last half
of the project. Detailed assistance was provided for the Copperbelt CUs with respect to financial
modeling and utility management. This built on production models of the CUs that had been
provided by the NORAD technical assistance which also included computers, vehicles, and office
refurbishment. Cost recovery increased to about 40 to 50% of total operational costs; however,
all the CUs are bankrupt. They do not pay electricity or other government bills. This indirect
subsidy enables them to maintain operations.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact attributable directly to URWSP for the water and sanitation
sector is modest. URWSP was primarily an infrastructure rehabilitation project aimed at
rehabilitating major water and sewerage works. While some direct TA was funded by NORAD
and aimed at improving management in the CUs, the TA was concluded before the CUs became
fully operational. Although the Bank was not leading the policy reforms in the sector, URWSP
did support and contribute to the reforms in the water sector by smoothing the path and making it
easier for the new utilities to provide better services as their major works had been rehabilitated
and considerable repair work had been done on the distribution system. Leak detection and O&M
procedures had been introduced. Considerable information was provided to the CUs including
detailed financial models for their use as management tools, detailed information on consumers
willingness and ability to pay, and certain demand management strategies were provided during
supervision. URWSP, however, had no resources for implementation of any of the recommended
strategies for the CUs, for example, demand management or for training and restructuring of the
municipal councils. By the time of the Mid-Term Review, the majority of the credit was
-9-



committed for the civil works contracts and for the large TA contracts for financial strengthening
of the municipal councils, leaving little scope for redirecting resources. The TA in support of
municipal restructuring and better financial management has already had an impact on follow-on
projects. The restructuring for Livingston Municipal Council is being supported under the IDA
SEED project and the expanded SEED for the Copperbelt will also rely on improved municipal
organization and structures. It is expected that the FY2005 PRSC component supporting
decentralization will capitalize to a great extent on these studies and plans prepared under
URWSP.
Furthermore, the project contributed to local private sector development particularly in the
Copperbelt towns through financing of minor works using small contractors. Small works, for
example, leak repair funded under the project, contributed to considerable employment generation
in the project towns.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. l Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economy of Zambia, before the privatization of ZCCM (in 1999) was in turmoil and
experienced a great drain on resources. Between 1996 and 1999, the mining parastatal ZCCM
suffered catastrophic losses equivalent to 6 to 10 percent of GDP per annum. Cash was short. A
number of the promises the GRZ made with respect to supporting the various government
reforms could not be honored. Redundancy packages for water and municipal works were not
funded so these workers remained on the books. None of the councils could pay for financial
audits. For the CUs, working capital, rationalization of assets between the councils and CUs, and
payment of government arrears was not possible. CUs started functioning in 2000 when they
were legally bankrupt and unable to undertake proper remedial measures such as improvement in
billing and collection, installing meters, and improving'demand management.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The two main factors that impacted the project were the delay in implementing the water reform
process and the failure to introduce the decentralization policy. While the Water Sector Reform
Policy was published in 1994, the Water and Sanitation Act was not passed until 1997. The
implementation of the reforms, for example, the creation of the National Water and Sanitation
Regulatory Council (NWASCO) and the appointment of the Regulator were much delayed.
Between 1997 and 1999 there was great deliberation between the Ministry of Local Government
and Housing and The Ministry of Energy and Water concerning the ministerial responsibility for
the Regulator. This was finally decided in 1999 and the regulator and NWASCO were positioned
under the MEW. The Regulator was not formally appointed untii June 2000, however, its staff
and operational capacity were not established for some time. The first water license was issued
about one year later.
The decentralization policy has still to be issued, however the newly elected government (2001)
has promised that the policy will have cabinet approval this year.
Counterpart funding was considered inadequate from time to time.
- 10 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency, Department of Infrastructure Support Services (DISS) was not able to
second a suitable officer to the financial management and procurement TA funded by NORAD
under the project. Capacity building in DISS for these functions was an important part of this
TA, however, it did not take place. Once the NORAD-funded TA finished, the lack of capacity
by DISS in these areas for the last 18 months of the project was apparent. The project has been
rated unsatisfactory for financial management and problems with procurement.
Delays occurred in the procurement process of the six pilot schemes and negatively affected
implementation of this component. This, in part, was within the implementing agency's control.
The schemes should have been complete at least 18 months in advance of the closing of the
project so that the management of the schemes by the communities could be monitored and the
lessons learned more fully captured. Monitoring and evaluation was weak and the project was
rated unsatisfactory on this aspect.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost at appraisal was projected at US$44.2 million, of which US$33.00 million
would be financed by IDA and US$11.2 million was financed by NORAD. Over the course of the
project, the total IDA credit in dollars dropped from about US$33 million to US$29 million due
to the devaluation of the SDR. This represented a US$4 million dollar loss for the expected
expenditures in the credit. By the end of the project, total IDA disbursement amounted to
US$26.5 million (92%) (data as of April 3, 2002). The NORAD component was completely
disbursed. Overall the disbursements were on schedule. Because of the lumpy nature of the
majority of capital investments, civil works funded by IDA, with design and supervision funded by
NORAD, about 85% of the credit was committed by November 1998 - the Mid-Term Review.
Further, the large studies for capacity building for the 10 municipalities (US$5 million) had either
been completed or tendered at this time. The scope for restructuring the project when the great
majority of funds had been committed was not a realistic option. The project was "locked in" and
was on its way to meeting the main project objective - rehabilitating the capital works. The main
component that lagged was the relatively small community demonstration projects of about
US$2.25 million. This component bore the brunt of the SDR devaluation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Rationale for sustainability rating is likely. Evaluation of sustainability for this project is primarily
based on the financial and technical sustainability of the major component, the rehabilitated water
and sewerage capital works. The second objective was to prepare community based water and
sanitation demonstration projects (CPs) in peri-urban areas, test different approaches, and provide
lessons learned. Finally, the project supported studies to prepare the way for institutional and
financial reforms to be introduced into the municipalities. While the sustainability of the water
reform has gathered great momentum over the course of the project, the project only marginally
supported these activities. The municipality reforms, supported by the studies and TA funded
under the project, were expected to become a core pillar in the GRZ's decentralization policy.
Sustainability of the capital works: The majority of the rehabilitated capital works are currently
operated by the CUs. Overall the CUs have performed better both financially and technically
- 11 -



compared to the councils' water departments, including an increase in average revenue collection
from 15 - 25% to 35 - 50% of costs. Stocks of chemicals appear adequate and the CUs are
testing water quality. The CUs were established with daunting problems that included a lack of
working capital for the initial operation of the CUs, lack of maintenance and a backlog of deferred
maintenance, staff payment arrears, debts contracted for purchase of chemicals, and unfunded
staff retrenchment packages. A major concern remains the arrears in paying electricity bills, so far
not accounted for among the CUs' operating costs. The high level of water consumption per
capita, as high as two or three times the regional norm, coupled with flat rate tariffs and lack of
meters, is also hindering the long-term sustainability of the CUs by affecting production costs and
affordability.
The URWSP has spawned two follow-on projects. One entitled Support to Water Reform
(FY2004) which will build on the policy reforms established in the sector to introduce more
explicit commercial practices and the application of PSP in the urban water and wastewater
sector. Without a strong commitment to efficiency, backed by necessary working capital and
capital investment or the continued direct and indirect subsidies provided the GRZ, the
rehabilitated schemes operated by the CUs, particularly in the Copperbelt, will find it difficult to
cover costs and undertake adequate maintenance. Overall, however, the CUs are performing
much better financially than the municipal water departments previously in charge of water supply
and sanitation with a 30% improvement in cost recovery. The second project, Urban
Development Project, will support local government strengthening and the decentralization
policy.
Sustainability of the community schemes: This component was designed as a pilot activity aimed
at providing lessons of experience for future operations. According to World Bank guidelines,
activities focusing on providing learning and innovation (or, on a larger scale, LILs) are intended
as instruments to facilitate learning in (i) piloting a promising development initiative, (ii)
experimenting and developing a locally based model prior to launching large-scale interventions,
or (iii) promoting consensus, ownership, and broad political commitment among stakeholders. In
this regard, the six schemes piloted under the URWSP can be considered an example of
small-scale LILs ante litteram and they should not be rated on sustainability as this is not included
in the design of LILs and pilots. Instead, the schemes should be assessed based on the clarity of
approach to be tested as in the design, the adequacy of arrangements to monitor and evaluate the
objectives, and the thoroughness of lessons learned for replicability and scaling up. In this regard,
it is considered that the locally based experience gained from implementation of the schemes will
contribute to ensuring sustainability of future activities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As stated, URWSP, as designed, did not fund the water sector reforms and the policy dialogue in
the sector as this was supported by other donors. However, the project did benefit from these
reforms, agreed with them and smoothed their path The rehabilitation of the capital works of the
main water and wastewater treatment plants, the repairs to the distribution systems and the
introduction of good practices in operation and maintenance, are all building blocks towards a
more sustainable system of operations. Already the CUs are performing much better than the
municipal water departments covering up to 50% of costs when previously this percentage was
below 20% in some cases. Still the CUs are heavily subsidized. Further, the subsidies are
- 12 -



misdirected to consumers on piped supplies. Informal areas, who are not serviced and which
represent the poorest consumers, are not yet benefiting from these reforms. The cost structures
of the CUs are high because of the inability of their management to include downstream demand
management programs (meters, better billing and collection, etc.) and to retrench workers. Most
revenue is used for salaries, chemicals, and minimal O&M.
IDA agrees with the reform policy in the water and sanitation sector and is supportive of its
further development into more advanced private sector participation options. The Mine
Township Services Project (IDA FY2000) was facilitated as a result of the reforms and the
establishment of the Regulator. This project has introduced a management contract for the water
and sanitation systems operated by the ZCCM. Further, the follow-on project - Support to Water
Reform - will build on progress already achieved and take the principals of cost recovery,
autonomy, delegated management, and private sector participation further.
Similarly, the studies and TA that resulted in plans to restructure the councils will be implemented
through the Urban Development Project (FY2005) which begins preparation in FY2003.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank conducted adequate consultations during project preparation and an appropriate
number of well-staffed missions were conducted. However, several critical risks were misjudged
in the project design, as described in detail in the Quality at Entry section. These include, in
particular, lack of timeliness of project implementation vis-a-vis the reforms in the water sector
and the decentralization policy and insufficient attention to financial analysis until a late stage in
project supervision. Moreover, the apparent failure to conduct a financial analysis during project
preparation and poor quality of the analysis conducted during the Mid-Term Review contributed
to risky financial sustainability.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project is considered satisfactory. The project had two task managers
during the course of supervision. Between effectiveness and the completion of the Mid-Term
Review (1996-1998), the project was managed from the field as the Task Manager was resident in
Zambia. After the Mid-Term Review, the Task Manager was changed and the project was
managed from Washington from 1999 until project closing in 2001. The peri-urban component
was in part supervised from the field through the Country Officer from the Water and Sanitation
Program resident in Zambia. The project has two QAG Quality of Supervision reviews. One in
1997, with a satisfactory score, and one in 1999, with a marginally satisfactory score. The latter
was protested strongly by the Region. QAG was disappointed that the sustainability issues had
not been given sufficient attention. Sustainability was highlighted as a major issue during
supervision after the Mid-Term Review, however, the bulk of the credit had already been
committed making remedial actions impracticable (see para. 5.4).
From the beginning, the project had two flags - the risky country flag and a sector risk flag for the
water sector. The project was a "project at risk" from effectiveness because of the delay in
effectiveness which added a third flag to the ever-present two flags. The project was rated as a
- 13 -



problem project in FY01 due to unsatisfactory project implementation. This was the consequence
of unsatisfactory performance in three additional areas: financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, and counterpart funds.
The financial management aspects of the project were rated unsatisfactory at several stages during
implementation. This was the result of the problematic financial management of DISS, which hit
a new low when a difference in figures for the utilization of funds was found between the Bank
audit review report for FY2000 and the figures in the audited project financial statements and in
the Bank Integrated Controller System, primarily due to the weak project accounts management.
An SOE review also highlighted significant capacity constraints and deficiencies that affected the
overall accounts management. In particular, in FY99 and FY01 the financial covenants ratings
were unsatisfactory; however, the project was twice granted golden flags. Despite the financial
problems in the MLGH, the project did not hold back on any of the civil works. Disbursements
were robust and on schedule. A further reason for the unsatisfactory ratings is the GRZ's failure
to provide counterpart funding since 1999; this did not, however, stop the construction,
commissioning of the civil works, and the progress on the ground leading to more reliable water
services.
Supervision Strategy:
The supervision strategy pursued by the team was to give the highest percentage of supervision
resources to this main objective and main component of the project - the major rehabilitation
projects, including the leak repair contracts. This was not a small task as the major works
covered sites in nine different municipalities - three sites in the South and six sites in the North. It
would take over eight days to visit all sites during a mission, given local travel. Either the
Engineer or the Task Manager tried to visit each site at least once a year. Further, it would take
at least another three days to visit the six peri-urban sites.
After the Mid-Tern Review in December 1998, it became apparent that the CUs would control
the water systems in the nine urban areas within a year. Though the legal basis for this takeover
was not finalized until 2000, new management was appointed to the CUs in mid-1 999 and staff,
though still paid by the councils, sat in CU offices. The Mission recognized the severe financial
sustainability issues and used opportunistic ways - bilateral trust funds, etc., to help the CUs (in
the Copperbelt) understand their financial dilemma. Models were produced and consultants
worked with the CU management. These activities were somewhat outside the scope of the
project and the project had no funds to take measures to remedy management problems of CUs.
The Southern CU which had rehabilitated works from three sites under URWSP was in better
shape as it benefited from a GTZ-funded project.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank's performance is rated Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The GRZ showed strong commitment during project preparation in focusing on the need to
improve water supply delivery. This was seen as a neglected area leading to problematic health
- 14 -



issues. The comprehensive sector reform process for both the water sector and for
decentralization was started during this period.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The complexity and political nature of the reforms involved translated into a series of delays on
the part of the Borrower in putting in place the institutional arrangements to keep the water
reform process on schedule. In particular, the Regulator and the CUs were significantly delayed
by several years. Nevertheless, the GRZ remained steadfast in its commitment to these reforms
though they were not fully executed until late in the project's implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
DISS was the responsible agency for the results on the ground. These results were substantial
and included the successful construction and implementation of over US$20 million worth of
capital works. This included the procurement of the works, their construction and successful
operation as reported by the last supervision mission. The shortcomings in DISS must, therefore,
be viewed within this overall perspective.
Financial management became problematic during the latter stages of the project and remained so
until the close of the project. While a TA for financial management was introduced, this did not
provide sufficient support to uplift the unsatisfactory rating.
M&E aspects of the project and their oversight by DISS were a major cause for concern during
project supervision. DISS commissioned a report to review monitoring and evaluation indicators.
However, this commitment from DISS came at too late a stage and the PSR rating in M&E was
rated unsatisfactory from FY99 to FY02.
Counterpart funding was also flagged as an issue, however it did not appear to have had a
negative impact on progress made during implementation as all the major civil works were
successfully built, commissioned, and contractors paid.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Overall, some useful lessons learned can be derived from the project. One is the importance of
conducting financial analyses at different stages in a project. This is clearly relevant when there is
an expectation of improvement in service delivery. Second, while reforms promised consumers
better services but these reforms must be accompanied by adequate Government resources to
support the reforms. For the reforms to be seen to be successful, both in the water and municipal
sector, Government has to have resources to fund the agreed requirements under the legislation
(Water and Sanitation Act, 1997) for example, redundancy payments and working capital. The
consequences of a reform agenda on the Government budget must be clearly identified.
On the civil works side, the choice of expenditure was for items that had heavy foreign exchange
content (pumps, instrumentation, and large pipe replacement) with the expectation that the public
sector would undertake less capital intensive works such as repair and expansion to the
- 15-



distribution system. This technology choice is reflected in the negative NPV where heavy capital
costs for rehabilitation are not set against increased numbers of consumers. Rehabilitation
projects that are simply putting back systems that have deteriorated will show consistent low
returns as the majority of benefits in water supply systems come from expanding the distribution
and selling more water. The public sector did not choose to invest in the expansion of the
distribution system. In fact, the number of consumers (with the exception of the six peri-urban
areas) did not increase dramatically under the project.
With respect to water borne disease and cholera, the majority of the project, with the exception of
the six pilot projects, only reached consumers who were on the piped system. The disease
outbreaks are for the most part in areas that are not part of the formal distribution system.
Further, while sewerage treatment plants were repaired under the project and sewer lines
rehabilitated, there were no new sewer connections made under the project. The lack of focus on
sanitation probably lowered its effectiveness with respect to disease control. However a complete
public health component that would include hygiene education that would needed to achieve
these objectives may not be best placed in a water rehabilitation project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
During the period of implementation, the water sector reforms were also instituted, thereby
impacting on the final delivery of the project.
The Ministry of Local Government and Housing was responsible for the project on behalf of the
beneficiary municipalities and has the following observations to make:
(a)   The project has contributed positively to the improvement of water supply and sewerage
services by restoring the capacities of the selected infrastructure.
(b)   This (a) has provided a good foundation for the newly established commercial utilities
(CUs) that have taken over responsibility from the municipalities. The CUs can now supply a
better service and in fact their performance has been enhanced by the refurbished facilities. One
can safely say that the project has done well in "support" of the water sector reforms.
(c)   The project has carried out capacity building within the councils. This was the original
idea, although it is now evident that councils needed to have been reorganized/restructured before
capacity building. Since the CUs have assumed some of the councils' responsibilities, the councils
need to re-define their roles, retrench excess staff and then build the capacity of the useful staff.
(d)   In implementing URWSP, a few disruptions occurred due to staff movements and also due
to the project design. Financial management and procurement were not fully established within
the ministry as these services were provided by external consultants. With the departure of the
consultants it became difficult for ministry staff to comprehend and move the project forward.
(e)   Nevertheless, the Ministry has been highly satisfied with the guiding role that the present
Task Manager has provided to the staff. The eventual success has been due to the hard work and
- 16 -



resilience of the Task Manager in providing the necessary support.
(f)    The project included components such as:
(i) community demonstration
(ii) leak detection and repairs
(iii) support to local authorities
(iv) rehabilitation of facilities
The ministry is of the view that the demonstration component could have come much earlier in
the implementation schedule and this would have provided valuable information for improved
service delivery to low income areas as well as satellite areas.
Further, after refurbishing water treatment plants and reservoirs the pumping pressures rose
leading to occurrence of leaks and pipe bursts. A larger component to deal with the distribution
system could have solved this problem.
Although some work was done on wastewater treatment facilities, more investment was directed
to water supply. This has left areas of need in wastewater systems.
(g)    The support to local authorities has yielded structural plans for Lusaka, Ndola and
Luanshya. These plans are essential for future development and Management of infrastructure in
the affected towns. In fact this provides a basis for the production of specific sector masterplans
for services such as sewerage, traffic etc.
(h)    As is usual in World Bank projects, the Ministry observed that the triangle of
communication between Task Team, Disbursement Team and the client ministry is never
complete. This is because payment claims that may not be acceptable to Disbursements are
returned to the client without necessarily liaising with the Task Team. From outsiders, this seems
strange as it would be a lot easier for Bank Department to consult amongst themselves before
returning packages.
Finally, the Ministry of Local Government and Housing notes that there has been an excellent
working relationship with the URWSP Task Team in Washington, D.C.. It is this relationship
which has produced a successful project.
The Ministry of Local Government and Housing hope that the lessons learnt from the successful
implementation of URWSP will be incorporated in future project designs. The Ministry of Local
Government and Housing also wish that future projects will balance the interventions between
water supply and sewerage/sanitation as these are closely related.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
- 17 -



10. Additional Information
N/A
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator                    INdola  |Luansh.   Mufulira I Kalulushi I Chingola I Livingston I Mazabuka I Kafue I Kitwe TOTAL
CATEGORY I - WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SYSTEM REHABILITATION - MAJOR WORKS
No Major rehabilitabon contracts  1       1        1          1         1          1           1         1
completed
No. Water treatment fadlities    1        1        1          1         1          1           1         1      -       8
restored
No. Treatment equipment & fadlites  1     1        1          1         1          1           1        1       1       9
replaced/restored
m3/day Net production (,000)    64.85    3.0      1 95       7.0       10.8      13.0         5 4      5.85     -     111.85
No. Man-days training in Lak    210       -        -         45         -         165         45         -     120
detection & remedial
No. Man-days on-site training on  72     72        42        32        42          -           -        66     42      368
O&M                                                                          I           II_ .
CATEGORY II - WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SYSTEM REHABILITATION - MINOR WORKS
No. Minor leakage contracts      7        7        7          7         7          6           7        6       6       60
completed
No. WS distribution repairs (spot  161   186      317        114       413        92          130       24      -      1437
repairs)
m. Unes repaired/replaced       962     2840      336       1368        -          -         1912      506     384     8308
m. Sewerage unblocked          19880    11495     7055      4440       1210      10159   _              -             54239
No. Leak repairs                756      223      1200       428       157        209         139      291      -      3403
No. Valves/manholes replaced     33       -        -          -        5/60        -           -        10      -      108
No. Communal Standposts         220      100      100        50        100        100         50        50     770     1540
No. Manholes repaired                    _-                                        -           -         -      27      27
CATEGORY IlIl - COMMUNITY BASED DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
No. Water supply systems          1       1        1          1         1                                       1       6
established                                              I
No. People water has been extended  5000  10500  12000      4000      20000                            -      20000   71500
to
No. NGOs contracted for community  2      -        -                    2                                2              6
capacity building                                                                                                   l
m. Pipe lines laid              1570    4970      5260   _             1700                                    7770    19670
m3 Reservoir capacity             -       -       550         -        550               X     -         -     550     1650
No. Boreholes drilled            -        -        -         25                         -                       -       25
No. Water points/kiosks          16      32        31        25        40                                       35     179
19 -



Lusaka Ndola     Luansh    Mufulira  Kalulushi Ching. Livingst.  Mazabuka  Kafue   Kitwe TOTAL
CATEGORY IV - REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
No. Studies                              -       -         2         -       3                  -        2       -      7
No. MunidcipalAudits            1        1       1         1         2       -        1         1         1      1      10
No. By-law passed               1        1       1         1         1       1        1         1         1      1      10
Kw million revenue cooected    46      540       11        6        21.5   1289      31        308      269     639   3160 5
No. Man days of training on     4       4        4         4         4       4       4          4        4       4      40
accountng for counci accounting
staff
No. Man days of training on     2       2        2         2         2       2        2         2        2       2      20
intemal audit for council auditing
staff
No.ofmandaysofon-site          15       15       15       15         15      15      15         15       15      15     150
training on finandal systems and
munidpal accounts
From Outputs to Objectives
Output                                     Outcome                           Development Objective
Water supply/sanitation systems rehabilitated and Relialbity and Quaniity of potable  Provide immediate solutions to the most severe water and
restored                                   water and sewerage enhanced      sewerage infrastructure deficiencies in nine key urban
areas
Local contractors engaged to complete works  Employment generated in project
towns
Community-generated projects completed based  Capacity of pilot communities to  Test out community-generated and managed water and
on participatory mecharisms at council and  identify and implement projects  sanitation demonstration projects which meet articulated
community level in six peri-urban communities  enhanced                      needs at an affordable price while strengthening local
councils' capacities to support community based initiatives
in Lusaka and the participating Copperbeit councils
A by-law introducing property tax was passed in  Revenue collection introduced in all t  Initiate broader institutional and financial reforms required
each town                                  towns                             for providing organizatonal incentives for investing in,
operating and maintaining infrastructure based on
residents' perceived needs and willingness to pay
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost By Component              Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
US$ m          US$ m
A. Water Supply and Sanitation                   17.10           18.54            108
Rehabilitation
B. Community-Based Demonstration                  5.60            2.25            40
Projects
C. Reform and Capacity Building*                  7.20            5.80            8 1
Total Baseline Cost                              29.90           26.59
Physical Contingencies                         1.39
Price Contingencies                            1.88
Total Project Costs (1996)              33.17            26.59
Total Project Costs (2001)**            28.71            26.59          92.18
Taxes                                             0.60            ----
Project Cost, net of taxes (1996)               33.17
Project Cost, net of taxes (2001)**                              26.59
* including PPF refinancing   **Devaluation of the SDR
Note: The Special Account still shows a balance of $210,119.00 as of June 18, 2002. Based on past experience, it may take
GOZ a considerable length of time to refund this SA amount to the Bank. The Credit would by then be closed and all project
financal figures finalized at that time.
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arr ngements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                                 Total
Expenditure Category                 ICB           NCB           IS          Other        Notance          Cost
_____ _____ ____ _____ ____   ____ ___  I                                           F inanced        C  s
1. Works
Water Sector Rehab.                     11.8             1.3                      0.9                          14.0
(10.7)           (1.2)                    (0.8)                        (12.7)
Sanitation Rehab.                        5.0             1.0                      1.1                           7.1
(4.5)           (0.9)                    (1.0)                         (6.4)
Community-based                                         2.5                       2.5                           5.0
Project                                                (2.3)                    (2.3)                         (4.6)
2. Consultant Services and
Training
Policy Support                                                                    2.3                           2.3
(2.3) (b)                      (2.3)
Project Preparation and                                                                         11.2(a)        11.2
Implementation Support
Institutional Development
(a) Institutional Reform                                                          4.6                           4.6
(4.6)(b)                      (4.6)
(b) Studies                                                                       0.8                           0.8
(0.8)(b)                      (0.8)
(c) Demonstration Project                                                         0.6                           0.6
(0.6)(b)                      (0.6)
3. PPF (Institutional                                                                 1.0(c)                        1.0
Development)                                                                        (1.0)(b)                       (1.0)
Total                          16.8             4.8                     13.8            11.2          46.6
(15.2)           (4.4)                   (13.4)                        (33.0)
Note- Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit, including contingencies but net of duties and
taxes.
(a) Items financed by NORAD under NORAD procurement procedures
(b) Services procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines; Use of consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency
(c) The actual PPF amount was $0 965 million
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method                   Total Cost
ICB      NCB        IS        Other     N.B.F.
1. Works                   20.15      1.24                0.00      0.00       21.39
(18.02)   (1.02)               (0.00)    (0.00)     (19.04)
2. Goods                    0.00      0.00                0.00      0.00        0.00
(0.00)   (0.00)               (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00      0.00                5.93      0.00        5.93
(0.00)   (0.00)               (5.35)    (0.00)      (5.35)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00      0.00                0.00       0.00        0.00
(0.00)   (0.00)               (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)
Total             20.15      1.24                5.93       0.00       27.32
(18.02)   (1.02)               (5.35)    (0.00)     (24.39)
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Component          ppraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
Bank  Govt.  NORAD    Bank   Govt.  NORAD    Bank  Govt. NORAD
A. Civil Works      23.70  2.40           20.15                 85.00
B. Consultancies     9.30        11.20     5.10         11.20   54.80          100.00
(TA, training,
supervision of woks)
TOTAL               33.0   2.40  11.20    25.25         11.20   139.8          100.00
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Ndola     Luanshya     Mufulira    Kalulushi   Chingola   Livingstone    Mazabuka       Kafue      TOTAL
Original Producion (m3)   64,850      12,000      16,550      16,600      36,000       12,000          6,000     10,450      174,450
ProjectProduction(m3)   129,700      15,000       18,500      23,600      46,800      25,000          11,400     16,300     286,300
NetProduction(m3/day)     64,850       3,000       1,950       7,000      10.800       13,000          5,400      5,850      111,850
NetProduction(m3/year)  23,670,250  1,095,000     711,750   2,555,000   3,942,000    4,745,000      1,971,000  2,135,250   40,825,250
Losses (35%)  15,385,663    711,75046      2,638    1,660,750  2,562,300    3,084,250       1,281,150  1,387,913  26,536,413
Value Perm3 (0.04)   615,427      28.470       18,506      66,430     102,492      123,370         51,246     55.517     1,061,457
Contract Total Sum  3,580,410  2,104,720    1,570,369   1,066,829   2,993,109     788,240        881,748   1,355,691   14,341,116
Costs      Benefits   Net Benefits
PYO    2,868,223          0     -2,868,223
PY1     5,736,446         0     -5,736.446
PY2    5,019,391          0     -5,019.391
PY3      717,056     530,728     -186,328
PY4                 1,061,457   1,061,457
PYS                 1,061,457   1,061,457                                               NPV
PY6                 1,061,457   1,061,457
PY7                 1,061.457   1,061,457                                          -5,431,209
PY8                 1,061,457   1,061,457
PY9                 1,061,457   1,061,457
PYlO                1,061,457    1,061,457                                      ($5,431,208 61)
PYll                 1,061,457   1,061,457
PY12                1,061,457    1,061,457
PY13                 1,061,457   1,061,457
PY14                 1,061,457   1.061,457
PYtS                1,061,457    1,061,457
PY16                 1,061,457   1,061,457
PY17                 1,061,457   1.061,457
PY18                 1,061,457   1,061,457
PY19                 1,061,457   1,061,457
PY20                 1,061,457   1,061,457
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implementation   Development
Month/Year      Count            Specialty                         Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
January, 1994
Appraisal/Negotiation
June, 1994
Supervision
Supervision I                   I    1 EC                                  S               S
(June 1995)
Supervision 2                   5    I EN, I EC, I UP, I TM, I MF          S               S
(Mar. 1996)
Supervision 3                   3    1 EN, I EC, I TM                      S               S
(Sept. 1996)
Supervision 4 (Apr.             7   2 WRM, I EN, I UP, I DE, I             S               S
1997)                               COM, I FA
Supervision 5 (Oct.             3    1 TM, I EC, I EN                      S               S
1997)
Supervision 6 (Feb.             3    1 TM, I EN, I CON                     S               S
1998)
Supervision 7                   3    1 TL, I PSP, I EN                     S               S
(Nov. 1998)
Supervision 8 (Jul.             6    1 TL, I EN (CON), 1 FA (CON),         S               S
1999)                                I PUS, I PROC, I NORAD
Supervision 9                   7    1 TL, I EN (CON), I FA (CON),         S               S
(May, 2000)                          1 PROC, I ENV (CON), I PUS,
I FMS
Supervision 10                  4    1 TL, I EN (CON), I FMS, I            U               S
(Feb. 2001)                          PUS
Supervision I 1                 3    1 TL, I EN (CON), I FMS               S               S
(Oct. 2001)
ICR
ICR Mission -                  2     1 TL, I OA
April - May 2002
CON - Consultant                                            NORAD - Co financer
CS - Chartered Surveyor                                     OA - Operatons Analst
COM - Community Parlicipation                               OF - Operations Officer
CPO - Country Program Officer                               PSP - Private Sector Participation
DE - Decentralization                                       PROC - Procurement Specialist
EC - Economist                                              PTE - Property Tax Expert
ENV - Environmental Spedalist                               PUS - Peri-urban Specialist
EN - Municipal Engineer                                     RE - Refuse Expert
FA - Financial Analyst                                      SAN - Sanitary Engineer
FMS - Financial Management Specialist                       TL - Team Leader
IDS - Institutional Development SpeciaGst                   UM - Urban Management Specialist
IT - Information Technology Specialist                      UP - Urban Planner,
M&E - Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist                  VAL - Valuation Spedalist
MF - Municipal Finance                                      WRM - Water Resource Management
WE - Water Engineer
- 25 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                    44.40                            89.40
Appraisal/Negotiation                         60.10                           146.40
Supervision                                   92.60                          261.30
ICR* 
Total                                        197.10                          497.10
The Time Recording System (TRS) does not provide a distinction of staff week time between supervision and preparaton of the ICR.
Therefore, the category 'Supervision' above indudes both implementaton supervision as well as the time and resources required to
prepare this ICR.
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H   O SU O M   O N  * NA
OSector Policies                        O H  O SU * M    O N  O NA
Physical                               OH    OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Financial                             O H   O SU * M   O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development             0 H   O SU * M   0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                         O H   * SU O M   O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  O SU O M    O N  O NA
0 Gender                          OH   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Z Other (Please specify)          O H  O SU * M   O N   O NA
Health Improvement
O Private sector development            0 H   O SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management              0 H   0 SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
0 Lending                                          OHS@*S       OU     OHU
F Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
F Overall                                          OHS * S      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
2 Preparation                                      O HS * S     O U    O HU
F Government implementation performance            0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS       0 U    0 HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   Staff Appraisal Report - April 17, 1995
*   Supervision Mission Aide Memoire
*   Memorandum and Recommendation of the President - April 17, 1995
*   Financial Study of the three Copperbelt Commercial Utilities, Jan Franck, August 2000
*   Consumer Assessment Survey for Water and Sanitation in Council Townships: Phase 1: The
Copperbelt, Albert Malala (Dr), and Barbara K. Senkwe (Mrs.), February 2000
*   Environmental Evaluation Report (EER), May 2000
*   Assessment of the Community Management Approach, Peri-Urban Pilot Water Supply
Projects, January 2002, Elizabeth Kleemeier and Albert Malama
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8.Bo rrower's Contribution to ICR
Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project
Implementation Completion Report
Minutes of the informal discussion with the Implementing Agency
A meeting between the Department of Infrastructure and Support Services at the Ministry of
Local Government and Housing, implementing agency for the Urban Restructuring and Water
Supply Project, and the Task Team of the Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project was
held in Lusaka on May 2, 2002. The purpose of the meeting was to conduct a preliminary
discussion on the first draft of the Implementation Completion Report for the project, in particular
to illustrate the Task Team's view on the project and to discuss the Government's perspective. In
attendance were Mr. Peter Lubambo, Director, DISS, Ms. Jane Walker, the World Bank, Lead
Specialist for Water and Team Leader for the Project, and Paola Ridolfi, the World Bank,
Operations Analyst for the project.
Ms. Walker presented the report highlighting that the Task Team is satisfied with the outcomes,
and that the final ratings for the project will be discussed with the Bank regional management at
the ICR Review Meeting. Ms. Walker also underlined how the UWRSP has contributed to
strengthening the dialogue with the Government of Zambia in the water and urban sectors and
stressed that future operations currently under discussion include further support to the urban
sector and to decentralization.
Ms. Walker indicated that the ICR reflects these views illustrating strengths and weaknesses of
the project. The main flaws highlighted in the report are related to the conflicting nature of
objectives in the project design. The physical works financed under the project were completed
successfully and on schedule. However, while these were initially under the responsibility of the
municipal councils, they were later handed over to the commercial utilities. The institution
strengthening activities, on the other hand, were addressed primarily to the municipal councils and
did not benefit the authorities responsible for management of the water services. This major
inconsistency creates serious risks for the sustainability of the investments undertaken under the
project. Mr. Lubambo expressed his agreement on these considerations.
Discussion on the report focused on Chapter 7 on Bank and Borrower performance.
Timeliness of reforms
Mr. Lubambo indicated that legal establishment of the CUs and NWASCO was delayed due to the
political process and the nature of the consultations involved and they should not be viewed as a
lack of commitment on the part of the Borrower. Ms. Walker recognized the highly political
nature of the process, which started in 1994 with approval of the regulation policy for the sector
and was completed only in 1999. However, this process delayed creation of the commercially run
utilities which required a regulatory body. Ms. Walker and Mr. Lubambo agreed that the reforms
required to set up the CUs were at a very initial stage at the time the project was being developed
and appraised and that they were far from being implemented at that stage.
- 30 -



Financial management
Mr. Lubambo indicated that financial management was affected by the institutional arrangements
set up for the project during the first two years of implementation. In particular, a Project
Management Unit was set up within the Ministry of Local Government and Housing. The PMU,
however, was not integrated in the structure of the Ministry and communication was very poor.
This reflected in lack of knowledge transfer on financial management and procurement skills and
Ministry staff. The project suffered in recent years as a result.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Mr. Lubambo indicated that, although no provision was made in the first phase of project
implementation on monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, DISS committed to it at a later stage.
Mr. Lubambo also underlined how the strategy developed under the URWSP will provide a good
ground for developing M&E system under future operations.
Lessons learned
Management arrangements
Mr. Lubambo underlined that at the beginning the project was not integrated within the Ministry's
activities the PMU and that similar management arrangements worked better for other projects
within the Ministry. Ms. Walker shared this view and added that although the Bank was
channeling funds through MLGH there was a management gap with PMU. Mr. Lubambo added
that capacity building of Ministry staff was affected particularly in the areas of procurement and
disbursement since no knowledge sharing between the PMU and MLGH staff took place. Also,
the transfer of management functions from the PMU to DISS resulted in lost institutional
memory.
Capacity building
Mr. Lubambo underlined that although these were addressed only to municipal council staff,
capacity building activities were very successful. In particular, the training programs on financial
management were very effective in helping local council staff focus on sources of revenue as an
altemative to water fees after the CUs were created. The program eventually contributed to
strengthening financial management of local councils when revenues from water were being
diverted to the CUs.
Financial analysis
Mr. Lubambo stressed that the project was conceived with a strong focus on infrastructure
investments and not sufficient attention was devoted to financial sustainability until a late stage.
-31 -



Investment selection
Mr. Lubambo indicated that there was a strong focus on financing water supply systems in the
project and that support to water distribution network was not considered in the design, except
for the minor works. Ms. Walker underlined that the total amount allocated for capital works was
reduced over project preparation and that a decision was made to only capital intensive
investments with a high foreign exchange component (this included, for example, pumps). Ms.
Lubambo and Ms. Walker agreed that future operations should focus on wastewater and
distribution.
Procurement
Mr. Lubambo indicated that management of procurement process had created delays in
implementation. In particular, the low degree of decentralization to the field in procurement
responsibilities within the Bank and the gap between disbursement and the Task Team had
determined delays throughout project implementation. Mr. Lubambo stressed that the project had
benefited from continuity in management during the last two years of project implementation on
both the Government and the Bank side.
- 32 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26587
1  22             24'             26-              23                               322'            3AD
)                ~~~~~~~~Z A M B I A              /-         g    2,.' 
f URBAN RESTRUCTURING AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT)            (                                TANZANIA
PARTICIPATING COUNCILS                 / I                Mb1o     "
/Ki-e PARTICIPATING COUNCILS  TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS  ;  Ncheoenge
O  SELECTED CITIES   RAILROADS
  PROVINCE CAPITALS  RIVERS     r,          /  Koo,bwo 
-IS-        NATIONAL CAPITAL  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                      sok)
NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
f                                   r   /S / X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~N o R T  .   \        Xoe
'-S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
j   Lklu     Komg              2    NTR L4      Xt      >.   t   --       2 MOZ AMB I R  UE  r-'
w"I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'
-12' 
, 00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sern1                              ,  \ "        'BCS        G !  ;I  DUUD?- 
0 R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~4'
A }0~~~~~~~~WESTERN         To            /"      LUAK LUSAKA                  IOOOLO2T 'S<-X w    TAiNZANIA 
. .........an                                    DO NLAolo  \  /                 ANGOEA  .
16'                         U'                 ~'   Ch,,o  N Hoo,6-F--MALAWI                           0
; ) X KatX /V <AMonze                  /    -    AMBIA  ~  ' | ;OZA   BI jE
\ ,.                                       >\<\\ /  C-bh/ k >;tek; z t/ 8 A 5 WKE-,, C ,  32' ,
%       2 <~ 0 3 10 150 00 2C KSOUtTHERN  PefN,bo  s0                        - ' -v '  'MZORI
_M l b ,                                                             ZI MBABWB ,fv   @  The  boQndories.  colors  denomincltons  ond  ooy  cthr  laformorion   O C E A N   .,, t   i   <  sABO N
MONGIJ                                                                             Z A-I CIon, o  NAMIBIA  I BOUSHANA R E
22   <   ,Sf  BOTSWANA  \   26  28-         30                                 J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA  ANZANIA 99
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
16,~~~~~~~~~~~ehc                                  C           15TA/A/I HI.,--4'
G-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
/               LIVINOSTON~~~~~s  HE R  ob                                            OZ /IU
0  10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNAY19






IMAGING
Report No.:        24019
Type:     OCR



