CREDIT NUMBER 2725 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        /e ,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2725 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                          /2                  , 1995,
between the REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (thlorrler) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Association has received a letter dated April 7, 1995 from the
Borrower describing a program of policies and the institutional framework designed to
strengthen the provision of water supply and sanitation services in the territory of the
Borrower (hereinafter called the Program); and
(C)    the Borrower intends to obtain from  the Norwegian Agency for
Development Cooperation (NORAD) a grant (the NORAD Grant) in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to approximately $12,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and NORAD (the NORAD Grant Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Association or
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the


﻿-2-
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Beneficiary Settlement Community" means an informal settlement
community that will be served by a Demonstration Project;
(b)    "Copperbelt Councils" means, collectively, the City Councils of Kitwe
and Ndola and the Municipal Councils of Chingola, Kalulushi, Luanshya and Mufulira;
(c)   "Councils" means, collectively, the City Councils of Lusaka, Kitwe and
Ndola, the District Councils of Kafue and Mazabuka and the Municipal Councils of
Chingola, Kalulushi, Livingstone, Luanshya and Mufulira, all established under the
Local Government Act No. 22 of 1991 of the Laws of Zambia;
(d)    "Demonsiration Project" means any of the sub-projects to be financed in
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit under Part B of the Project;
(e)   "DISS" means the Department of Infrastructure and Support Services in
MLGH;
(f)   "Kwacha" means the currency of the Borrower;
(g)    "Mid-Term Review" means the review referred to in paragraph 1 of
Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)    "MLGH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government and
Housing;
(i)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of
this Agreement;
(j)   "Project Design and Training Consultant" means one of the consultants to
be employed by the Borrower to assist the Beneficiary Settlement Community to design
Settlement Technical Plans for purposes of implementation of Part B of the Project;
(k)    "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan covering procurement,
disbursement and other organizational arrangements for the implementation of the
Project to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement as
the same may be amended from time to time by the Borrower with the consent of the
Association, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the Project
Implementation Plan;


﻿-3-
(1)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter dated November 30, 1994
and countersigned on January 31, 1995 between the Association and the Borrower.
(m)    "Settlement Technical Plan" means the plan to be developed by a
Beneficiary Settlement Community for a Demonstration Project;
(n)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement; and
(o)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means one of the agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the Councils pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 21,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Boirower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I and September 1 commencing September 1, 2005 and ending March 1, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2015 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 'hall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit Withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the


﻿-5-
judgment of the Association, such revision shall no change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE m
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out
Parts A and C of the Project through the DISS with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, urban management and water supply
practices, and environmental norms, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project; and (ii) shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Councils to carry out Part B of the Project
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent, or interfere with,
such performance.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out Parts A and C of the Project and cause the Councils to carry out Part B of the
Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set out in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement and with the Project Implementation Plan in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with
each of the Councils wishing to participate in, or benefit from, the implementation of
activities under the Project as provided for in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)    For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Credit available to the respective Council as a grant under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
(c)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall for the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project:
(a)    open and maintain in Kwacha in the name of the DISS an account (the
Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to
$100,000;
(c)    thereafter, deposit into the Project Account not later than March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each year during the implementation of Parts
A and B of the Project, the amount necessary to replenish the Project Account to the
amount of $100,000 equivalent or such greater amount as may be required for the
purposes of the Project; and
(d)    ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to
paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures
made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services for
Parts A and B of the Project not financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during


﻿-8-
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)    As a result of events which have occurred after tht date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Councils, or any of them, will be able to perform their obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreements.
(c)    The Local Government Act No. 22 of 1991 of the Laws of Zambia, or
any other law of the Borrower, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
any Council or its ability to carry out Part B of the Project, to benefit from Part A or C of
the Project, or to perform any of its obligations under the respective Subsidiary
Agreement.
(d)    The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Councils or for the
suspension of their operations.
(e)    (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)     the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B)     any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or pre-maturing is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on


﻿-9-
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)     the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)    the Borrower has appointed the following staff to the DISS: a Director;
an Assistant Director; a Principal Economist/Financial Specialist; and a Principal
Engineer for Water and Sanitation;
(b)    the Borrower has appointed a community development specialist in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement to assist
the DISS in the implementation of the Project;
(c)    the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Plan, satisfactory to
the Association;
(d)    all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of funds under the
NORAD Grant Agreement have been satisfied with the exception of those relating to the
effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(e)    The Borrower has entered into Subsidiary Agreements acceptable to the
Association with at least two Councils.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Subsidiary Agreements
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 to this Agreement have been duly authorized
or ratified by, and are legally binding upon, the Borrower and the respective Councils in
accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                                 Telex:
MINFIN                                   42221
Lusaka
Telefax:
222440
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                                 Telex:
INDEVAS                                248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.                       82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /d/PUW*IWC
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                               Regiona Vice Pr
/~.4~i.qRegional Vice President
*9             Africa


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                % of
(Expressed in               expenditures
Category               SDR equivalent)             to be financed
(1)  Civil works                 13,000,000              90%
(2)  Consultants services
and training                4,900,000               100%
(3)  Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance           600,000              Amount due
pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(4)  Unallocated                  2Q800.000
TOTAL                       21.300000
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made:
(a)    in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b)    in respect of payments for expenditures under Category (1) until: (i) the
Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited therein the initial amount
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) for the first Demonstration
Project to be carried out by a Council unless the Demonstration Project has been
approved by the Association;
(c)    in respect of payments for expenditures within the jurisdiction, or for the
benefit, of a Council unless the Council has entered into a Subsidiary Agreement
acceptable to the Association, with the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of
Part A of Schedule 4 tc this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
3.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works and services under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower: (a) to deal with severe
water and sewage infrastructure deficiencies in key urban areas in its teitory; (b) to test
out community-generated and managed water and sanitation sub-projects; and (c) to
initiate broader institutional and financial reforms required to provide organizational
incentives for investing in, operating and maintaining, infrastructure based on perceived
needs and willingness to pay of residents.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Water Supply and Sanitation Rehabilitation
1.     Rehabilitation, replacement and management of water treatment facilities and
equipment in order to ensure potability of water supplied to the urban centers of the
Councils, excluding the City Council of Lusaka.
2.     Provision of training to staff of the Councils, excluding the City Council of
Lusaka, and to other personnel responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
water distribution systems of such Councils, in leak detection and remedial measures.
3.     Rehabilitation of the water treatment and distribution systems and of the sewage
collection and treatment systems of the Councils, excluding the City Council of Lusaka.
4.     Provision of training to staff of the Councils, excluding the City Council of
Lusaka, and to other personnel responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
water supply and sewage disposal facilities of such Councils, in essential operational and
maintenance skills.
Part B:       Community Based Demonstration Projects
Carrying out of community generated Demonstration Projects designed to
extend water supply to low income communities in peri-urban areas within the
jurisdiction of the City Council of Lusaka and the Copperbelt Councils.
Part C:       Reform and Capacity Building
1.     Carrying out a study of the feasibility of commercially oriented organizations
providing water supply and sanitation services in the areas within the jurisdiction of the
Copperbelt Councils and recommending modalities for their establishment.


﻿-15-
2.     Developing national and regional management strategies for water allocation,
conservation and appropriate use, through carrying out of studies, including issuing
recommendations and, if required, drafting appropriate environmental legislation.
3.     Strengthening the capacity of the Councils in financial management by
developing revenue enhancement action plans and systems improvement action plans
including, if required, drafting legislation.
4.     Carrying out a diagnostic study of the planning and resource allocation
procedures 'of the Councils and developing appropriate capital investment programs for
each Council for the next five years, including, if required, drafting enabling legislation.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Corsultants' Services
Section 1.   Procurement of Works
Part A:       General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Association in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
With respect to works to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B, the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and
2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract and $4,800,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Shopping and Force Account
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract and $4,500,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under lumpsum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association and, where applicable, relevant
drawings. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to


﻿-17-
successfully complete the contract.  If such works meet the requirements of
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, they may be carried out by force account in accordance
with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines with the Association's prior
agreement.
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
I of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract awarded under the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Part B of this Schedule, and to the first three contracts awarded under the provisions of
Paragraph 1 of Part C of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Association
in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and


﻿-18-
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
3.     The exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms,
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association,
(d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:       Subsidiary Agreements
1.     For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower, through MLGH, shall enter into a
Subsidiary Agreement with each Council before commencing any works or provision of
training or technical assistance within the jurisdiction, or for the benefit, of that Council.
2.     The terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Agreements shall be subject to the
Association's approval and shall include details of all implementation arrangements
agreed between the parties thereto and rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association, including, inter alia, the following:
(a)    a description of the respective roles, responsibilities and obligations of
each of the parties under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)    the financial management, accounting and reporting requirements of the
Councils, including the obligation of the Council to report on the progress in
implementing Demonstration Projects under Part B of the Project;
(c)    the financial, legal and contractual obligations of each of the parties to
the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(d)    the requirement that the Council shall maintain competent staff in
adequate numbers to ensure the smooth operation of the Project in the areas within its
jurisdiction.
For the purposes of Part A of the Project:
(e)    that the Councils shall, for the duration of the Project, protect informal
settlements within their jurisdiction from demolition of dwellings except in cases where
such demolition is required for the provision of essential services or for health and safety
reasons; and, in any event, shall not demolish any dwellings inhabited by settlement
communities without prior consultation with the Association; and shall ensure that any
demolition is conducted in accordance with resettlement plans which shall have been
approved by the Borrower and the Association;
(f)    that the Council shall, if necessary and in cooperation with MLGH, take
all actions within its authority to enable the legalization of the Beneficiary Settlement
Communities within its jurisdiction.


﻿-20-
For the purposes of Part B of the Project
(g)    that the Councils shall follow the procedures set out in Part B of this
Schedule in the preparation, appraisal, approval and implementation of Demonstration
Projects;
(h)    that the Council shall carry out each Demonstration Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and maintain adequate records;
(i)   that the funds provided to the Councils by the Borrower to finance
Demonstration Projects shall not be used for any other purpose and that the civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for the Demonstration Projects shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(j)   that the Council shall allow the DISS to inspect, by itself or jointly with
the Association, the sites, works, plant and construction included in the Demonstration
Project, the operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(k)    that the Council shall provide to the DISS all such information as the
DISS or the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Demonstration Project and the benefits to be
derived therefrom;
(1)   that the DISS shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the
Council to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Demonstration Project upon failure by
the Council to perform any of its respective obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(m)    an agreed formula for adjusting budget and works allocations based on
actual performance; and
(n)    that Demonstration Projects shall be financed on the following terms and
conditions:
(i)    financing shall be provided on a grant basis;
(ii)   the Borrower shall finance no more than $25 per capita for each
Demonstration Project, or such other larger amount as may be set by the
Association upon the request of the Borrower. Any costs above that
amount shall be borne by the Beneficiary Settlement Community; and
(iii)  no payments shall be made out of the proceeds of the Credit for a
Demonstration Project until the Beneficiary Settlement Community has
paid to the contractor all investment costs to be borne by the Beneficiary
Settlement Community.


﻿-21-
Part B:       Procedures for carrying out Part B of the Project
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall adopt the
following procedures in carrying out Part B of the Project:
1.     The following criteria shall be utilized in the selection of Demonstration Projects:
(a)    The Beneficiary Settlement Community must have no reliable connection
to a formal water supply system and must reside in an informal peri-urban area.
(b)    The Beneficiary Settlement Community must either have formed an
existing community organization with the capacity to develop a Settlement Technical Plan
or be willing to work with one or more Project Design and Training Consultants for that
purpose.
(c)    The Beneficiary Settlement Community must be able and willing to
finance the investment cost of the Demonstration Project above the amount to be financed
under the Credit in accordance with Paragraph 2 (n) (ii) of Part A of this Schedule and to
undertake the post-investment operation and maintenance of the Demonstration Project in a
manner acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
(d)    The Beneficiary Settlement Community must have played a key role in the
design of the Demonstration Project, and must be willing and able to play a key role in the
implementation, monitoring and management of the Demonstration Project.
(e)    The Demonstration Project must be within the technical, financial and
managerial capacity of the Beneficiary Settlement Community.
2.     The following procedures shall be followed in approving and processing
Demonstration Projects:
(a)    The DISS shall, in consultation with the Councils, select and appoint one
or more Project Design and Training Consultants in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement to assist the Beneficiary Settlement
Communities to prepare Settlement Technical Plans.
(b)    Each Beneficiary Settlement Community shall prepare a Settlement
Technical Plan for the Demonstration Project with the assistance of the Councils and, if
required, the Project Design and Training Consultant. The Settlement Technical Plan shall
include:
(i)    a description of the Demonstration Project with cost, including
contingencies;


﻿-22-
(ii)   information on the beneficiaries, including proof of their ability to
undertake the post-investment operation and maintenance
responsibilities and, where required, to finance the investment
cost of the Demonstration Project above the amount to be
financed under the Credit; and
(iii)  a statement of the post investment operation and maintenance
arrangements for the Demonstration Project.
(c)    The Settlement Technical Plan shall be submitted to the relevant Council
for appraisal, evaluation, review and approval.
(d)    The Council shall submit all Settlement Technical Plans approved by it to
the DISS. The Council shall include evidence that it has the legal authority and logistical
capacity to carry out the Demonstration Project.
(e)    The DISS shall submit the first Settlement Technical Plan reviewed by it
from each Council to the Association for approval.
3.     The Council having jurisdiction over the Beneficiary Settlement Community
shall carry out the Demonstration Project in collaboration with the Beneficiary Settlement
Community.
4.     MLGH, in cooperation with the relevant Council, shall take all actions within its
authority to enable the legalization of the Beneficiary Settlement Communities.
Part C        Policy Seminar
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall, by July 31, 1996, conduct a seminar (the Policy
Seminar) to review the progress of Parts B and C. I of the Project. The Policy Seminar
shall review, among other things:
(a)    the institutional structures for the water sector;
(b)    the business plan related to the institutional structure for the water
sector;
(c)    the water tariff structure;
(d)    an assessment of the effectiveness of Part C. 1 of the Project and a
decision as to remedial steps required to correct any shortcomings; and
(e)    an initial assessment of the impact of Part B of the Project.


﻿-23-
Part D:       Mid-Term Review
1.     The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not earlier than 21
months and not later than 27 months after the Effective Date, a review (the Mid-Term
Review) of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The Mid-Term Review shal
cover, among other things:
(a)    Project monitoring: an evaluation of the Project monitoring and
evaluation system and of the performance of the Councils and the DISS against the
monitoring and evaluation benchmarks agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association;
(b)    Part A of the Project: an assessment of completed works and of the
performance of contractors under the construction, management and training contracts,
and an evaluation of the timing and transition arrangements for handing over
management of the facilities to the entities referred to in paragraph (d) below, or the
Councils;
(c)    Part B of the Project: an assessment of completed and ongoing
Demonstration Projects, including a decision on whether to expand the program to
additional settlements and/or cities, and how to incorporate lessons learned regarding
demand-based planning and participatory processes into a wider range of municipal
planning management activities;
(d)    Part C. I of the Project: an evaluation of the progress achieved in
establishing commercially-oriented water supply and sanitation organization(s) including
implications for overall municipal management;
(e)    Part C. 2 of the Project: an assessment of the status of legislative reform
and of the procedures in place for incorporating environmental concerns into municipal
planning and management;
(f)    Part C.2 of the Project: an evaluation of the status of development of a
water resource strategy and of baseline data for monitoring water quality and use;
(g)    Part C. 3 of the Project: an assessment of progress to date and
identification of further training needs;
(h)    Part C. 4 of the Proiect: an evaluation of progress on reforms identified
and of status of implementation; and
(i)    Part C. 5 of the Project: a review of the status of the capital investment
plans of the Councils and an assessment of their suitability for a follow-up project.


﻿-24-
2.     The Borrower shall, at least four (4) weeks prior to the Mid-Term Review,
furnish to the Association a report describing the status of the items listed in paragraph I
above and of Project implementation generally.
3.     The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks after the Mid-Term Review,
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation
of the Project having due regard to the findings of the Mid-Term Review and, thereafter,
implement such action program.


﻿-25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in
the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)     the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $ 800,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the


﻿-26-
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be


﻿-27-
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


