Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
jlAJ. 3/4.3
L    ji J    l r                          Report No. 8049-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
NOVEMBER 22, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This doument has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perforniuce of
thekr officfd duti  Its contents may not otherwise be didosed whout World Bnk sathorztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Philippine Peso (P)
US$1.00        -  P 21.5
P 1.00         -  100 Centavos (ctv.)
(as of July 1989)
WEIGHTS AND MEASUR!S
MT                 -     Million tons
TOE               =      Tons of oil equivalent
m                  ,     Meter (3.2808 feet)
km                =      Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
kV                 =     Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kW                       K Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW                 =     Megawatt (1,000 kW)
kWh                      K Kilowatt hour (1,030 watt-hours)
GWh               -      Gijawatt hours (o:ue million kWh)
MVA                8     Mega volt-ampere (one million volt-amperes)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                =     Asian Development Bank
AIC               -      Average Incremental Costs
BOT               =      Build-Own-Transfer
BOOT                     Build-Own-Operate-Transfer
DENR                     Department of Environment and Natural Resou.ces
DOF                      Department of Finance
ECC                =     Energy Coordinating Council
EMB               =      Environmental Management Bureau
ERB                =     Energy Regulatory Board
Eximbank          =      Export-Import Bank of Japan
ICB               =      International Competitive Bidding
IERR              =      Internal Economic Rate of Return
LCB               =      Local Competitive Bidding
LIB               -      Limited International Bidding
LPG               -      Liquified Petroleum Gas
LRMC              =      Long-run Marginal Cost
MERALCO            =     Manila Electric Company
MOE                =     Ministry of Energy
NEA               a      National Electrification Administration
NEDA              -      National Economic Development Authority
NPC               -      National Power Corporation
OEA               -      Office of Energy Affairs
OECF              =      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PIC               -      Project Implementation Committee
PNOC              -      Philippines National Oil Company
PNOC-EDC          =      PNOC-Energy Development Corporation
REC               =      Rural Electrification Cooperatives
SOEs              =      Statements of Expenditures
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paje No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  iii
I.   SECTORAL SETTING  ....  .  .    .  .  .    ..1.....  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
A. Background .1
B.  Energy Resources  .1...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
C.  Energy Demand .....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    2
D.  Institutional Framework and Coordination .  . . . . . . . . .   2
m E. Issues.                                                                              3
F. Sector Strategy.                                                5
G.  Bank Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . .   9
II.  BENEFICIARY INSTITUTIONS  .... .      .    . ...... .  .  .  .  .  .   .   11
A.  Office of Energy Affairs  .1.1..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   1
B.  Energy Regulatory Board ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   11
C.  Environmental Management Bureau . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
D.  Philippines National Oil Company  . . . . . . ... . . . . . .  12
E.  National Power Corporation  ........  ..  ..  ..  ..   .   15
F.  National Electrification Administration . . . . . . . . . . .  17
III.  THE PROPOSED LOAN ........................   19
A.  Origtn  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .  19
B.    Objectives  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
C.  Action Plans and Investment Programs  . . . . . .,. . . . . .  19
D.  Investment Costs  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   26
E.  Financing Arrangements  .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
F.  Implementation Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
G.  Procurement .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   31
H.  Disbursement  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   34
I. Monitoring, Reporting and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
J.  Environmental Concerns  .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
This report is based on the findings of the pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions which visited the Philippines in December 1988 and July 1989,
respectively. The members of the missions were Hossein Razavi (Mission
Leader), Anil Malhotra (Senior Energy Specialist), Etienne Linard (Senior
Power Engineer), Jamil Sopher (Senior Financial Analyst), Mihir Mitra (Power
Engineer), Peter Pease (Pr-'urement Specialist), Vineet Nayyar (Consultant),
Richard Schuler (Environmei.sal Specialist), and P. Venugopal (Consultant).
Colin Rees (Environmental Specialist) and Ahmed Jehani (Lawyer) assisted the
appraisel mission in the field and Patricia Brereton-Miller provided editorial
assistance in Washington, D.C.
I       | ~~~This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
0       § ~~~of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PaRe No.
IV.   JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS             *...........    ... .......    37
A.  Justification ....  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .   37
B.  Risks ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .    . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   40
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1    PNOC: Key Financial Indicators
2.2    PNOC-EDC: Key Financial Indicators
2.3    PETRON: Key Financial Indicators
2.4    NPC: Key Financial Indicators
2.5    NPC Investments, 1989-93
3.1    Summary of Investment Costs
3.2    Financing Plan
3.3    Suimmiary of Procurement Arrangements
4.1    Incremental Cost of Power Generation
4.2    Least-cost Development Program
ANNFXES
1.1    Energy Balance for 1988
3.1    Statement of Energy Policy
3.2    Schedule of Policy Actions
3.3    PNOC-EDC Geothermal Development Schedule
3.4    NPC:  Details of Project Components
3.5    OEA: Details of Project Components
3.6    EMB: Details of Project Components
3.7    NEA: Details of Project Components
3.8    Detailed Project Costs for Each Entity
3.9    Sunmmary of Procurement Arrangements for PNOC, NPC and NEA
3.10   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
3.11   Key Activities for Bank Monitoring
3.12   Supervision Plan
4.1    Average Incremental Costs for Proposed Hydro and Thermal/Geothermal
Plants
4.2    Generation Expansion - Least-Cost Analysis
4.3    Internal Economic Rate of Return
4.4    Economic Analysis of Plant Rehabilitation
5.1    Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Mavs:   IBRD 21900:  Energy Resources
IBRD 21901: National Power Corporations Grid



- iil -
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrowers:               Republic of the Philippines
National Power Corporation (NPC)
Philippines National Oil Company (PNOC)
Guarantor:               Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary Agencies:   Office of Energy Affairs (OEA)
Energy Regulatory Board (ERB)
Environmental Management Bureau (EMB)
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
PNOC-Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC)
PETRON Corporation
Amount:                  US$390.0 million equivalent, in three loans to NPC
(US$200 million). PNOC (US$150 million) and the
Government (US$40 million).
Terms:                   Repayment over 20 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:        The Government would pass on US$17.8 million of the
proceeds of its loan to OEA, ERB and EMB as budgetary
contributions, and would make US$22.2 million
available to NEA as an equity contribution. PNOC
would on-lend US$147.0 million equivalent to PNOC-EDC
and PETRON on the same terms as the World Bank loan,
with PNOC-EDC and PETRON bearing the foreign exchange
risk.
Proiect
Description:             The proposed project consists of the first phase of a
least-cost development program aimed at reorienting
the country's approach to energy sector development in
order to minimize the total cost of power generation.
It w.uld support a government strategy and
institutional action plan aimed at: (a) enhancement of
the sector's capability to plan for energy growth and
to coordinate policy implementation; (b) adoption of
least-cost strategies for energy development;
(c) strengthening of regulatory activities for
rational energy pricing and control of quality of
service; (d) encouragement of private sector



- iv -
participation through joint-venture and other schemes!
(e) improvement of environmental standards and
monitoring; and (f) enhancement of the technical
capabilities of the sector institutions, particularly
OEA, ERB and EMB. The proposed loans would finance
selected components from a time-slice of energy sector
investments for the period 1989-93, comprising, inter
alia, support to import of equipment and materials
required in geothermal fields development, power plant
construction, power transAission and distribution,
rural electrification, mooernization of office and
laboratory equipmant of the sector institutions,
training, technical assistance, and the undertaking of
a number of studies.
Proiect Risks:           The physical risk in implementing this project is
small, limited to the low probability that the steam
reserves in the Luzon fields to be commissioned during
1989-93 period would be smaller, after field
appraisal, than presently estimated on the basis of
available geoscientific data.  However, there are two
areas of concern regarding the implementation and
disbursement of the loans. First, there is an overall
concern with regard to the implementation capability
of various agencies since most of these agencies have
not had significant investment projects during the
last five years; this risk has been minimized by
careful preparation of implementation schedules,
formation of a Project Implementation Committee and
preparation for increased duration and frequency of
project supervision by the Bank. Second, there is
some uncertainty with regard to the availability of
other sources of financing and therefore with regard
to the disbursement schedule of the loans. The
financing arrangements have been designed so that, for
certain items, the beneficiaries may use International
Competitive Bidding to minimize their costs while also
seeking alternative financing proposals. As a result,
the Bank loan may be disbursed slower or faster than
scheduled, depending on the availability of other
financing sources.



- v 
Proiect Costs: /a                 Local          Foreian         Total
- ___------ US$ Million -----------
PNOC                            438.1           303.1          741.2
NPC                             606.7         2,115.3        2,722.0
OEA                               2.1             2.2            4.3
ERB                               2.2             0.8            3.0
EMB                               0.3            11.9           12.2
NEA                               4.3            22.2           26.5
Total Costs             1,053.7         2,455.5        3,509.2
Financing Plan:
World Bank                    55.2           334.8          390.0
Eximbank of Japan             50.0           100.0          150.0
Committed loans from
foreign sources           132.:,        1,037.5        1,170.0
Internal cash and other
financing                 816.0           983.2        1,799.2
Total Financing Plan      1,053.7         2,455.5        3,509.2
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank PY          1990     1991       1992      1993    1994    1995
-------------------US$ million-----------------
Annual           15.0      55.0      90.0      120.0    92.0    18.0
Cumulative       15.0     70.0      160.0      280.0   372.0   390.0
Economic Rate of Return: 171
/a Costs include physical and price contingencies but exclude interest
during construction.



PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
I. SECTORAL SETTING
A. Backaround
1.01     After growing by more than 6Z per year during the last half of the
1970s, the Philippines' GNP stagnated and then fell by more than 102 during
1984-85. The economy has since staged a remarkable recovery, recording growth
rates of 5.72 in 1987 and 7.0 in 1988. Energy demand in this period has
followed a similar pattern, peaking in 1979, thereafter falling by nearly 25Z
through 1985, and then recovering strongly to surpass its 1979 peak in 1987.
1.02     However, the Government has not been able to prepare for the
increased demand, largely because the politic&l and economic turbulence of the
early- to mid-1980s diverted resources (and attention) away from investment
needs, resulting in the severe energy constraints now threatening to stifle
the emerging recovery. Although total public sector investment during the
latter half of the 1970s averaged 302 of GNP and the energy sector accounted
for nearly half of this investment, the macroeconomic stabilization program of
the mid-1980s necessitated sharp cut-backs in overall investment to around 142
of GNP. requiring significant cuts in energy-related expenditures. As a
result, energy sector investment in 1986 was only 302 of the investment in
1979, in real prices. This particularly affected development of the country's
abundant geothermal resources, which are still in a rather early stage of
energy production. In addition, a major product of the earlier investment--a
nuclear power plant--hav been mothballed by the Government.
1.03     With the recent improvement in its own fiscal position, the Govern-
ment now intends to resume its strong commitment to energy sector development
and the resolution of outstanding sectoral issues, through an integrated
strategy, combining policy changes, a least-cost investment program to be
implemented during 1989-93, and the strengthening of key sector institutions.
The proposed Bank loan would support all of these initiatives.
B. Ernergy Resources
1.04     Unlike its ASEAN neighbors, the Philippines is not well endowed  with
indigenous energy resources that can be developed economically. After the
energy price increases of the early 1970s in the world market, a major effort
was initiated to explore and develop the resources that were available; as a
result, the country became a producer of geothermal steam (in 1978) and oil
(in 1979), in addition to coal and hydropower. However, proven oil reserves
amount to only 4 million tons, and production has been declining since 1983.



- 2 -
Geothermal reserves are not yet fully evaluated, but could exceed 8,000 MW.
Only 1,640 MW have been proven so far. The total potential coal resource is
estimated at about ;,500 millic-i tons (MT), but most of it is low grade and
expensive to mine. Hydro resources are quite substantial, with a theoretical
power potential in excess of 10,000 MW, but the better sites are distant from
the power distribution grid and thus expensive to use if mainly developed for
generation of power. Consequently, in the near term, an indigenous energy
resource meriting significant new investment is geothermal steam.
C. Energy Demand
1.05     During the 1970s, the Philippines was one of the first oil-importing
developing countries to adopt a comprehensive program of energy conservation
and demand management. Through both price increases and targeted energy
audits, a sustained effort was made to curtail the growth of consumption. As
a result, commercial energy consumption fell from a peak of 9.2 million tons
ot oil equivalent (TOE) in 1979 to a low of 7.1 million TOE in 1985. At the
same time, the proportion attributable to oil was reduced from 88Z to 74?,
with imported oil's share of total energy use declining from 95Z in 1973 to
56Z in 1986. With the resumption of economic growth in the Philippines, this
trend has been reversed, resulting in total energy consumption of 10.7 million
TOE in 1988. Demand is expected to continue growing over the next five years
by an estimated 4.52 p.a., with electricity demand forecast to grow at an
annual average rate of 5.4? over the period 1989-2000, assuming an average GDP
growth rate of 5.8Z in 1989-92 and 6.32 for 1993-2000.
1.06     Annex 1.1 shows the Philippines' energy balance in 1988.  At that
time, the industrial sector accounted for 51Z of total energy demand, followed
by transport with 32?. Electricity provided over half the commercial energy
used by the residential/commercial sector and 11Z of that used by industry.
Over 802 of total energy demand was met by petroleum products, 401 of which
were consumed by the transport sector. As economic growth is diversified away
from heavy industry, it is likely that the share of energy used for transport
and by the residential/commercial sector will increaqe. Much of this increase
can only be met by petroleum products. Thuis, the power sector's diversifica-
tion away from oil in the absence of any major hydrocarbon discoveries is the
only significant and hopeful prospect for limiting the rapid growth of oil
imports.
D. Institutional Framework and Coordination
1.07     Policy formulation and planning of the energy sector are the
responsibilities of the Office of Energy Affairs (OEA), a new agency
established in mid-1987 to take over the functions formerly carried out by the
now abolished Ministry of Energy (MOE). OEA reports to the Office of the
President. Other key sectoral institutions are: the Philippines National Oil
Company (PNOC), responsible for developing indigenous hydrocarbon and geother-
mal resources; the National Power Corporation (NPC), responsible for power
generation and transmission; the National Electrification Administration
(NEA), responsible for rural electrification; and the Energy Regulatory Board



-3-
(ERB), responsible for regulating petroleum product prices and p3wer rates.
Also involved in the sector is the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB),
under the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), which deals
with the environmental implications of energy resource development.
1.08     PNOC and NPC were attached to MOE prior to its abolition, an
arrangement which allowed effective coordination of sector policies and
programs and contributed to the Philippines' rapid and successful drive to
develop domestic resources and curtail consumption. OEA, however, is
organizationally distinct from PNOC and NPC and lacks the authority to carry
out its coordination and decision-making functions for the sector; as a
result, sectoral policies and investment pr)grams have lacked cohesion and
shown inadequate long-range planning. In particular, because policies for
developing the geothermal, coal and power subsectors are largely intertwined,
the lack of a coordinating mechanism has prevented the preparation of an
efficient development strategy for all three subsectors.
1.09     In September 1988, the Government took Ection to address this problem
by establishing an Energy Coordination Council (ECC) in the Office of the
President. The Council is chaired by the Executive Secretary to the President
and its membership comprises the Presidents of the major sector entities and
the Executive Director of OEA. OEA serves as the Council's secretariat and
will annually prepare a long-term plan for energy development in the country,
in consultation with the maJor public sector energy agencies and under the
overall framework- of the e_zonomic plans prepared by the National Economic and
Development Authority (NEDA). The plan will be submitted to the Council each
year for formal ratificationx. In addition, OLA will coordinate the
preparation of the agencies' annual budgets and an assessment of their
implementation of government sector policies.
E. Issues
1.10     The energy sector, especially the power subsector, is viewed as a
bottleneck to the Philippines' economic recovery. The sector impinges on
economic growth in three ways: first, the present generating capacity is
insufficient to meet increasing electricity demand; second, the sector is so
capital-intensive that it is likely to absorb a large portion of the economy's
resources, constraining investment in other areas; and third, the current high
cost of energy in the Philippines adversely affects the international
competitiveness of the country's industrial sector. Exacerbating this
situation is the fact that various issues in the sector related to operational
efficiency, sector finances, investment and pricing and, most importantly, to
intra-sectoral coordination will prevent efficient, cost-effective expansion
of the sector if left unresolved, and could thus constrain overall economic
development. Some of the more critical issues and bottlenecks are as follows:
(a) rapid economic recovery since 1987 has generated an imbalance between
available supply and potential demand for energy. In particular,
electricity demand has surged at a rate cf 10 p.a. while there has
been no addition to the supply capacity, and reliability of power



- 4 -
supply has declined substantially. This situation has been further
exacerbated by Government's decision in 1986 to mothball the nuclear
power plant (620 MW), the construction of which had been completed in
1985. During the next five years power demand is expected to Srowz at
an average rate of 72 p.a.;
(b) economic costs and rewards of developing indigenous energy resources
need to be evaluated in the light of declining international fuel
prices. Development of geothermal resources still remains the least-
cost option; however, development of domestic coal and certain hydro
resources may no longer be viable alternatives to energy import3;
(c) Government's decision to abolish the MOE was consistent with its
policy of decentralizing decision making and eventually privatizing
commercially viable public enterprises. Yet it led to a lack of
clear direction in energy resource development and an absence of
coordination between independent organizations having interdependent
investment programs. Critical decisions were consequently delayed;
(d) the structures of energy prices, though generally efficient in the
petroleum subsector, need substantial improvement in the power,
geothermal and coal subsectors. ElecLricity tariffs charged to
various customer classes is not consistent with the structure of the
cost of supply; geothermal steam pricing has been a barrier to the
timely development of this resource, and the domestic price of coa.
is substantially higher than the price of imported coal. Further,
the pricing mechanism and the corresponding regulatory framework need
to become more transparent;
(e) the operational efficiency of the power sector needs to improve.
Electricit, losses have increased from about 14Z in 1980 to about 18Z
in 1988; the scope and extent of rehabilitation of oil-fired power
plants need to be decided urgently; and the financial issues facing
the power sector need to be resolved;
(f) the investment program to support the rapidly increasing energy
demand will claim a large proportion of available public resources.
Both on this account and in order to secure greater operational
efficiency, there is a compelling need to attract local and foreign
private capital. This can be secured by removal of barriers to the
private sector participation and through transfer of public assets to
the private sector; and
(g) there is a growing concern that the environmental consequences of
land development and resource exploitation require careful evaluation
and close monitoring.
F. Sector Strategy
1.11     The Government's strategy for the sector to a large extent reflects
the conclusions of its recently reinvigorated dialogue with the Bank on



important policy issues in the sector.  From 1959 to 1975. the Bank activi.'.
supported the Philippine energy sector through a series of loans in the p.-
subsector for hydro- and thermal-based generation and power transmission.
However, between 197' and 1988, the Bank's operations in the energy sectoe
declined significantly and, more important, the sector policy dialogue was
suspended. During this period, it was evident that, until the issues noted
above were satisfactorily resolved, it would not be possible to secure optimum
returns on investment in the sector. Following the change in government in
1986, the new leaders became increasingly aware of the need to initiace major
policy changes in the sector and eventually requested the Bank to undertas.ke anI
Energy Sector Study, which -A-as completed in September 1988 (Report No. 726c-
PH). The recommendations of the Bank study, which called for a redirect- \
the coun.ry's energy development strategy, we..3 reviewed by the Governmerl,
which subsequently decided to initiate wide-ranging changes to address a
number of long-standing critical issues. The major policy changes are
discussed below.
1.12     Sector Coordination.  The sector study hig. ..ghted the importance of
the recently-created OEA and its lack of authority    enforce decisions
relating to coordination of the various energy subsectors. In particular, it
noted that the lack of a strong and effective agency for sectoral policy
coordination allowed critical issues, like PNOC's and NPC's dispute over steam
pricing, to remain unresolved for relatively long periods, with consequent and
deleterious effects on sector development. To relieve this situation, the
sector study recommended the establishment of the ECC in the Office of the
President. As noted above (para. 1.10), this has already been accomplished;
now, the major need is to strengthen the various institutions to carry out
their coordinating roles effectively. Therefore, one of the chief objectives
of the proposed sector loan is to strengthen the new institutions in the
energy sector and, in particular, to assist OEA in playing its coordinatirsv
role in policy planning.
1.13     Power Subsector Development. A least-cost analysis of the povei
sector development program was carried out in the context of the sector s  (i
to establish a framework for comparing the economics of various energy s'o,ces
for the power subsector. The results of this analysis indicated that the
optimum course of energy development for the Philippines would be: (a) to
develop Luzon geothermal resources as much and as rapidly as possible; (b) to
utilize Tongonan geothermal resources in Leyte if proven technically viable by
a detailed feasibility study; (c) to construct power plants fueled by  l.Ltc'
coal to fill the gap between growing electricity demand and the ava½i.s1
supply from geothermal resources; and (d) to replace imported cop,
domestic coal if and when the relative economic merits c5 -
improved by an increase in international energy prices. The Icvc ,.
in principle, agreed with these recommendations and plans to implement a ;.e-
investment strategy aimed at rapid development of the geothermal sector.
1.14     This development policy would, inter alia, imply that the pow"r
sector should restructure its investment strategy by: (a) deferring plans to
construct the San Roque (390 MW) and Binongan (175 MW) hydro projects until
and unless further studies show substantial reduction in the estimat-'
these plants; the recent review of the Casecnan (27rt



- 6 -
indicates a substantial reduction in the estimated cost which may make this
project viable for commissioiing by 1997-98; (b) cancelling plans to construct
the Isabela coal units (330 MW); (c) cancelling plans for construction of the
Northern Luzon extra high voltage line which would have been needed for the
Isabela and hydro units; (d) changing the design of the Calaca II (300 MW)
thermal power plant from dependence on domestic coal to the use of either
imported or domestic coal, and postponing the expansion of the Semirara coal
mines to the late 1990s; and (e) including the Tongonan geothermal project in
the development plan. The most recent development programs of both NPC and
PNOC reflect these changes.
1.15     Operational Efficiency in the Power Sector.  To support Government
plans to intensify energy conservation and reduce electrical system losses and
theft of power, the sector study reviewed NPC's electricity generation and
transmission systems and the transmission and distribution networks of the
Manila Electric Company (MERALCO). It was found that (a) several of NPC's
generating plants needed urgent rehabilitation, but that staged rather than
full rehabilitation would be more cost-effective; and (b) about half of
MERALCO's 212 loss in electricity transmission and distribution in 1987 was
due to meter tampering or other forms of pilferage. The Government and the
concerned entities therefore intend to rehabilitate the aging power plants in
stages and to introduce a bill in Congress to facilitate the prosecution of
pilferers. MERALCO has already introduced a program which has reduced losses
to about 172 in 1988 and aims at reducing them further in the 1990s.
1.16     Energv Pricing.  Energy prices have been set in the past to reflect
the average cost of supply. However, the transparency of the pricing
mechanism and the consistency of price and cost structures are of concern to
energy consumers and the Government. Therefore, as recommended in the sector
study, the Government plans to introduce efficient market-based prices for all
energy supp.ies, both to final customers and between primary and intermediate
sources. The following changes are consequently being introduced:
(a) the regulatory aspects of energy pricing, which were previously
handled by multiple specialized agencies, are being considered for
consolidation under the newly-formed ERB which will monitor the
quality and cost of service for the entire sector; and
(b) the structures of energy prices will be changed to reflect the cost
of service. The Government proposes to gradually introduce a
marginal-cost-based electricity tariff structure at both the retail
and wholesale levels (para. 3.11). In respect of geothermal steam,
the principle of avoided cost will guide the price which NPC will pay
to the steam producers. However this would call for the Government
extending fiscal concessions to steam producers to facilitate a
reasonable finanAial rate of return to them. For the steam from
BacMan I, the Government ordered a deferment of royalty payment by
PNOC-EDC for a period of four years. In the meanwhile it is
proposing in 1989-90 legislation or alternate measures for a royalty
holiday.



1.17     Privatization.  The Philippines is one of the few developing
countries that have extensive private sector participation in the energy
sector. In addition to petroleum refining and distribution, about 602 of
which is undertaken by the private sector, 802 of power is also distributed by
private utilities and a significant quantity of power is generated by the
private sector. Also currently, over 80X of the steam required for geothermal
plants is produced under service contracts with the private sector. However,
following the oil price shock of 1973, the Government's intervention in the
sector increased; it took direct control over energy supplies and the sector
came to be dominated by NPC and PNOC. The present Government is making
conscious efforts to reverse this trend; it has adopted a policy of privatiza-
tion for as much of the sector as possible. both th- ugh the transfer of
public assets to the private sector and by removal of barriers to private
sector participation in the new developments. Its objective is to reduce
public sector spending, improve efficiency through increased competition in
the construction and operation of plants, utilize foreign and local private
corporations for investment and mobilize resources for Government through sale
of public assets.
1.18     The Cabinet-level Committee on Privatization has drawn up a list of
government companies and their subsidiaries that could be sold to private
interests, directing the concerned entities to develop procedures for their
privatization.  PNOC, which has a number of subsidiaries, has already begun to
pursue this option. In addition, private sector participation in new
developments is being encouraged in both power generation and geothermal
resource exploitation.
1.19     Private sector participation in power generation has been  formally
authorized by the Government through a Presidential Order issued in 1987.
According to this order, the private sector can enter into a variety of
contractual arrangements, including cogeneration-build-own-operate-transfer
(BOOT) schemes and to supply power to NPC. Subsequently, NPC and NEA prepared
and issued rules and regulations on private sector participation. In
preparing these rules, conscious efforts have been made to attenuate and
contain certain risks such as exchange rate variations. According to these
rules, NPC itself takes the risk associated with exchange rate variations and
fuel price increases and requires investors to take only the risk regarding
project implementation and management which is under their control. Due to
the fairness of those provisions to the investor, it has been possible for the
Philippines to be one of the first countries to sign a BOT agreement with
Hopewell International for a 200 MW combustion turbine power station. Further,
NPC has invited expression of interest for the Calaca coal-fired power station
(300 MW). This has elicited an enthusiastic response, and 12 international
companies have been short-listed.
1.20     Private sectcr participation in geothermal development is expected in
the forms of (a) joint ventures between PNOC and private companies, and
(b) independent investments by private companies to explore and develop new
geothermal sites. PNOC is inviting private companies (domestic and foreign)
to cooperate with it in joint ventures for the development of the Pinatubo and
Natib geothermal fields and to generate power for sale to NPC. Under these
arrangements, PNOC would have 601 share of the investment in geothermal



-8-
development while the pLivate company would have a majority interest in the
!o'; tAgenieration investment. Even in geothermal development, PNOC has
(-, crued its willingness to consider permitting the joint venture partner to
&.cc .(. t-ic operator under its overall direction. The detailed framework for
.rt viiotore, requiring an overall investment of US$200-250 million, will be
.f tr~-d by PNOC by June 1990; PNOC has requested the Bank to provide
l .al:c.iln the development of this framework.
1.2l     In addition to joint ventures with PNOC, the private sector has now
been provided with the opportunity to explore in new geothermal sites. This
oppcrtunity was previously constrained by (a) the lack of clear guidelines
rcgarding the steam sales' price to NPC, and (b) the requirement to pay a
minimum of 6Z of total revenue as royalty to the Government, which had
adversely affected the financial viability of geothermal development. For all
p)ri tcnJ. purposes, both of these constraints have been removed.  A framework
for steam price has been adopted (para. 1.16) and the Government is prepared
to provide the same royalty deferment by PNOC, to the private sector, while
working on legislation for longer term royalty holiday.
1.22     Environmental Monitoring of the Energy Sector.  The Philippines has
long been concerned with the environmental consequences of land development
and resource exploitation. Presidential Decree 1151 which was issued in June
1977 required all government agencies and corporations to prepare, file and
include in the documentation for every project a detailed statement of the
project's environmental impact. This, followed by Presidential Decree 1586 in
June 1978 (which devolved into the Philippine Environment Code, also of June
I978), led to the notification of standards for air and water quality, noise
1ovels, limits on air pollutants and effluents.  However, the monitoring of
conspliance with environmental standards has not been sufficiently strong and
courdinated due to the lack of a single coordinating agency. In order to
reniedy this situation, in 1987 the Government integrated the monitoring
functions into a newly formed Environmental Management Bureau (para. 2.05).
The formation of this Bureau has facilitated substantially the task of
overseeing adherence to the environmental standards by the energy institutions
which also have their own environmental protection divisions.  Nevertheless,
in cttder for EMB to carry out this very important mandate, its technical and
1l.bLtutional capabilities should be upgraded substantially. A comprehensive
program of upgrading EMB's capabilities has been prepared and included in the
po c~sed project (para. 3.19).
1..23    In addition to the above fundamental improvement, the Bank has
sugges.ed that the environmental monitoring 'vstem warrants certain
modifications in two other areas.  First, to insure that all potential adverse
environmental and socio-economic impacts are considered at the earliest stage
of project evaluation, a representation by the environmental monitoring body
should be made at the highest level of decision making. Second, when an
energy project is implemented by more than one entity, the Government should
as:ure an investigation of the project's total impact rather than separate
studies by individual entities which may not portray the overall situation.
These improvements will be introduced during implementation of the proposed
sector project (para. 3.39).



- 9 -
G. Bank Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
Bank Lending and Strategy
1.24     Between 1957 to 1975, the Bank made seven loans to the power sector
to finance three hydro projects, two thermal plants, one transmission project
and a rural electrification program. In 1982 and 1983, three loans followed,
one for coal exploration, another for promotion of oil exploration and the
third for geothermal exploration. The last helped to highlight the importance
of the geothermal resource to the nationial economy. As a sequel the Bank
approved a geothermal field development cum power generation loan in 1988,
namely the Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Project. Finally, in 1989 a loan was
approved to support the power distribution network in Metro Manila. With the
exception of the last two projects which are ongoing, all other projects have
been completed without major problems and the resulting facilities are
operating satisfactorily. Project Performance Audit Reports have been
prepared for two of the projects (PPAR No. P-0980 in 1976 and PPAR No. P-5372
in 1985), and the major problems identified were implementation delays and
cost overruns due to project design changes, cumbersome contract award
procedures and weak project management.
1.25     The Bank's lending strategy in the past was focused on strengthening
the technical capabilities of the individual sector entities. But starting
with the Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power Project, the Bank's strategy was
reoriented towards improving sector coordination, in this case between NPC as
the generator of power and PNOC as the supplier of geothermal steam to NPC.
The proposed project pursues this strategy in the context of a synthesized
approach to the development of the energy sector as advocated by the Bank.
The proposed project will help financing of a number of similar combinations--
in the context of a synthesized approach to development of the energy sector.
In furtherance of this approach, the Bank recently completed a study of rural
electrification and what ails it and is framing recommendations to the
Government on the rehabilitation and expansion of this vital subsector.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.26     The policy changes agreed under the proposed project are fundamental
in nature and wide ranging in scope. These qualitative changes, it is
believed, will create an environment for optimizing returns on investment in
the energy sector. Further, through its past operational involvement and in
the course of preparing the Energy Sector Study, the Bank has developed a
constructive relationship with various sector entities which has been
important in facilitating coordination among them and in gaining collaboration
with the Bank. Consequently, the Government with the assistance of the Bank
prepared a comprehensive statement of its strategy in developing the country's
energy supply with due regard to strengthening the technical capabilities of
the sector entities, fuller development of domestic resources, increasing
efficiency and improving competitiveness within the energy sector. The policy
component of this strategy fits well into the Bank's overall strategy for the
country for revitalizing economic growth and improving the efficiency of
public corporations. The component of the strategy supports the Government's
macro-economic objectives by providing much needed investment funds in order



- 10 -
to meet the increasing energy needs for economic recovery. By supporting such
a plan, harmonizing as it does, both che investment and policy issues of the
major sector institutions into a consistent and cohesive program, the proposed
loan is both timely and appropriate.
I



- 11 -
II. BENEFICIARY INSTITUTIONS 1/
2.01     The institutional framework of the energy sector underwent a
fundamental change with the formation of the new Government in 1986.
Presently, the key institutions in the energy sector are the Office of Energy
Affairs (OEA), the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB), the Environmental Management
Bureau (EMB) to the extent of its involvement in energy, the Philippines
National Oil Company (PNOC), the National Power Corporation (NPC), the
National Electricity Administration (NEA), and a number of private companies
involved in petroleum and electricity distribution. The proposed loan would
cover the policy and investment programs of all the public sector entities.
A. Office of Ener&Z Affairs
2.02     The OEA has primary responsibility for the formulation, planning,
implementation and coordination of policies and programs in the energy sector.
It is headed by an Executive Director, who in turn is assisted by two Deputy
Executive Directors; all three officials are presidential appointees. Below
them are six Directors who oversee OEA's functional activities. OEA must
coordinate extensively with PNOC, NPC, NEA, ERB and EMB in formulating sector
policies, plans and programs. With the establishment of the ECC, which OEA
advises and through which it can gain the agreement of the major sector
agencies on sectorwide plans, it has acquired the necessary authority to take
a leadership role in sector planning, aimed at development of an efficient and
economic energy program for the country.
B. Energy Regulatory Board
2.03     The ERB was established in Hay 1987 as a quasi-judicial body to set
and regulate the prices of petroleum products, regulate additions to the
capacity of refineries, regulate the power rates of all electric companies
except NPC and the Rural Electric Cooperatives (RECs), and issue certificates
allowing the operation of public utilities. The Board may also, as warranted,
regulate the importing, exporting, shipping, transporting, processing,
refining, marketing and distribution of all energy resources. The Board
comprises a Chairman and three other Presidential appointees, and is supported
by an Executive Director and about 200 staff. Decisions of the Board are
binding and are implemented immediately; appeals challenging its decisions
must be made to the Supreme Court.
1/   For a fuller discussion of the organizational structure of the sector
ir.stitutions, please see the Staff Appraisal Report for the Bacon-Manito
Geothermal Power Project (Report No. 6999-PH) and the Energy Sector Study
(Report No. 7269-PH).



- 12 -
2.04     In fulfilling its role in the sector, ERB is involved in a number of
activities. For the power subsector, ERB staff prepare papers on tariff
formulation, price revisions, rationalization of rate structures, asset
valuation and allied subjects. Staff als6 conduct inspections for compliance
with ERB-established engineering standards for utilities. For the petroleum
subsector, data are collected on worldwide price variations, operational and
investment costs, and changes in the level and structure of demand. Studies
are also carried out as needed and inspections are undertaken to check product
quality and instrument calibration.
C. Environmental Management Bureau
2.05     The EMB is a branch of the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources. It was established in June 1987 as a successor to two agencies,
the National Environmental Protection Council and the National Pollution
Control Commission, both of which were abolished. The EHB has a mandate to:
(a) recommend policies and programs for environmental management and pollution
control, including statutory requirements; (b) formulate quality standards for
water, air, land and noise; (c) formulate rules and regulations for the
disposal of wastes and toxic substances; (d) guide its regional offices in
implementing policies, programs, standards and projects; and (e) liaise with
the legislative, public and other bodies and agencies involved in
environmental-related matters.
2.06     The Bureau is headed by a Director and staffed by over 75 legal,
scientific and other professional personnel. Activities of the Bureau include
ecological studies for developing procedures for identifying and measuring
pollutants and analyzing samples, surveillance of environmental quality to
establish guidelines and standards, environmental education, and the
promulgation of rules, regulations and standards. Compliance is enforced by
13 regional offices.
D. Philippines National Oil Comnanv
2.07     The PNOC is currently engaged in oil importing, refining and
marketing; domestic exploration for hydrocarbons; development of indigenous
coal resources and tradin3 in coal; exploration for geothermal resources and
development of geothermal fields; and the transportation of oil from foreign
suppliers, internal movement of petroleum products, and maintenance of tankers
and other transport vehicles. It operates in competition with two foreign oil
refining and marketing companies, a foreign geothermal company and a number of
domestic coal mining companies. In 1988, the economic recovery resulted in a
growth of about 9.7Z in commercial energy demand which reached 15 million TOE.
Oil use alone grew by 15.42 to about 9.0 million tons. These demand increases
led to substantial increases in PNOC's consolidated sales. PETRON (PNOC's
refining and marketing subsidiary) met 382 of total oil demand or about 3.4
million tons; most of these sales were of petroleum products obtained from
processing crude oil in its refinery. The PNOC Energy Development Corporation
(PNOC-EDC), the geothermal subsidiary, intensified its geothermal exploration
and development activities in 1988, following a hiatus of several years. Its



- 13 -
production activities resulted in steam sales to NPC sufficient to supply 738
GWh in 1988, an increase of 202 over 1986. This amount represented 152 of
NPC's purchases of geothermal steam. PNOC's coal companies also realized
higher production and sales in 1988. PNOC,'through its energy research and
development subsidiary, conducted a number of research and development
projects, particularly on fuel substitution, promoted the commercialization of
decentralized energy systems and continued conducting energy audits for
industrial companies in support of industrial conservation.
2.08     PNOC's operations have been successful for a number of years and its
financial position is sound. The administered petroleum product sale prices
in force to date have provided PNOC with sufficient margins for it to achieve
a reasonable return on its capital. While its coal operations have resulted
in minor losses, geothermal operations have contributed to the profitability
of the company, with the bulk of the profits, however, continuing to be
derived from petroleum importing, refining and distributing. In the coming
years, as geothermal steam sales increase, the company's geothermal activities
are expected to become more important to its overall financial viability.
During negotiations, it was agreed that PNOC will provide the Bank with an
audited financial statement together with certification within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. This report will include statemers:s concerning
(a) the holding company, (b) the holding company consolidated with all sub-
sidiaries, and (c) all subsidiaries (para. 5.02). The following table
suimmarizes PNOC's actual and projected performance during 1986-93.
Table 2.1: PNOC: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
FY                                    1986     1988       1989      1993
---Actual---       --Projected--
Petroleum product sales
(million barrels)                    21.0       32.1       33.3      46.5
Coal sales ('000 tons)                 4.19    874.0   1,061.0   1,103.0
Geothermal sales (GWh'               605.0     738.0      990.0   3,664.0
Revenues (P billion)                  15.7      20.4       21.5      41.8
Net earnings (P billion)               0.4       1.3        1.2       3.5
Return on capital employed             9.62      9.82      10.4?     10.42
2.09     Proposed Investments.  During 1989-93, PNOC investments in its two
main operations, namely geothermal and petroleum, are estimated at P 18
billion. Investment in geothermal development, totaling about P 12 billion,
would be partly (25?) financed under the proposed Bank loan. A part of the



- 14 -
Bank loan also would finance about 41 of the P 6 billion planned petroleum
investment, which PETRON would invest in debottlenecking the refinery and
adding product pipelines.
2.10     PNOC-EDC.  The key financial indicators for PNOC-EDC, which will
assume increasing importance with the expansion of geothermal development, are
as follows:
Table 2.2: PNOC-EDC: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
FY                                  1986      1988        1989       1993
---Actual---         ---Projected---
Revenues (P million)                 391       544         681        3,240
Net Income (P million)                38       114         144       1,632
Return on capital employed           2.2Z      2.42        3.22        8.5S
2.11     The financial position of PNOC-EDC rests largely on the pricing
principles for steam to be sold to NPC.  In the determination of the sale
price for steam from each geothermal field, PNOC-EDC has targetted a return of
12? on its investments. After a lengthy discussion of this issue, PNOC-EDC
and NPC have agreed on a pricing principle for steam from the Bacon-Manito
field, whereby NPC will pay a price it can afford based on its avoided
costs." In order, however, to make geothermal steam development financially
attractive, the Government allowed a deferment of royalty payments to PNOC-EDC
for four years and is examining legal or other measures for waiver of royalty
(see para. 1.16).
2.12     PETRON.  The following table gives the key financial indicators for
PETRON for a few selected years. PETRON has in fact had a satisfactory
financial performance over the past several years and under the existing
mechanism for fixing oil company netbacks for petroleum products, PETRON may
reasonably be expected to maintain that performance.



- 15 -
Table 2.3: PETRON: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
FY                                  1986      1988        1989       1993
---Actual----        ---Projected---
Revenue (P billion)                 14.3      18.7        19.4         36.4
Net Income (P billion)               0.5       0.8         0.7          1.8
Return on capital
employed                            14.3Z     12.4Z       14.7?        10.4Z
2.13     In order to ensure that PNOC-EDC and PETRON each remains financially
robust, during negotiations it was agreed with PNOC that:
(a) PNOC-EDC and PETRON will (i) maintain a debt/equity ratio, net of any
reserve for revaluation of assets (with inter-company loans
classified as long-term debt) of not more than 70:30, (ii) maintain a
current ratio of not less than 1:0; and (iii) incur additional debt
only if a reasonable forecast of its net revenues after expenditures
(excluding depreciation), taxes, and dividends for each year during
the term of the debt shall be at least 1.25 times its projected debt
service requirements (para. 5.02); and
(b) PNOC will take all actions required to enable PNOC-EDC and PETRON to
meet these and other obligations under its Loan Agreement with the
Bank, including (i) providing PNOC-EDC and PETRON with share capital
and inter-company loans as necessary and (ii) enabling PNOC-EDC and
PETRON to use other means as available to raise counterpart funds
(para. 5.02).
E. National Power Corporation
2.14     The NPC has primary responsibility for development of the country's
power grids and generating capability, although a growing private sector
involvement in augmenting power generation is envisioned by Government.
2.15     Oierational Performance.  At end-1988, the total installed capacity
of the Philippine power subsector was 6,600 MW, of which 5,788 MW (88X)
belonged to NPC. The major part (41?) of NPC's capacity is oil-fired, while
geothermal (152), hydro (372) and coal-fired (7X) plants account for the rest.
Total generation from NPC's facilities was about 23,000 GWh in 1988, amounting
to over 902 of the country's total power generation. NPC's facilities are
organized into three separate systems for Luzon, Mindanao and the Visayas;
while Luzon and Mindanao have their own grids, the Visayas system includes



- 16 -
five grids that operate relatively independently of one another. Of total
energy sales of 21.200 GWh in 1988, the Luzon grid accounted for 762, Mindanao
for 162 and the Visayas tor 82. From a negative growth rate in 1985,
electricity sales have increased by 31 in 1986, 9.62 in 1987, and 9.52 in
1988.
2.16     Financial Performance.  NPC's financial performance for 1986-93,
reflecting the acceleration in electricity sales since 1986 and a projection
of future trends, is summarized below.
Table 2.4: NPC: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
1986      1988       1989       1993
FY ended                        ----Actual---        ---Projected--
Energy sales ('000 GWh)         17.6       21.2       22.9       31.8
Net operating revenue
(P billion)                     17.5       19.8       22.0       48.9
Average net revenue (ctv/kWh) 96.8          93.5      96.3      155.2
Net operating income
(P billion)                    0.7        5.6        5.5        9.6
2.17     NPC is permitted under its charter to realize annually a maximum 10?
rate of return on revalued net fixed assets (and some working capital). Since
NPC's rate of return in recent years has barely touched the 82 level, the
company has scope to raise its tariffs. During negotiations NPC agreed:
(a) that it will, as already provided for under the Loan Agreement for
the Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power Development Project (Loan No. 2969-
PH), maintain its annual operating revenues at levels sufficient to
realize, after meeting operating costs (including depreciation) and
taxes (if any), an 82 rate of return on average revalued net fixed
assets in operation (para. 5.03); and
(b) furnish to the Bask, by June 30 of each year, an audited financial
statement for the previous year, together with a certificate and
long-form report prepared by acceptable auditors (para. 5.03).
2.18     Proposed Investment. To meet the rising demand for electricity and to
support the Goverment's goal of securing adequate energy supplies, NPC has
formulated the following investment program for power generation and transmis-
sion, amounting to about P 88 billion over the period 1989-93.



- 17 -
Table 2.5: NPC INVESTMENTS, 1989-93
(P BILLION)
1989     1990      1991     1992      1993
Capital expenditures *        13.31    15.00    16.77    19.44        23.36
Internal cash generation       4.59      6.87    10.65    10.32        9.54
Shortfall (financing
requirement)                   8.72      8.13     6.12      9.12     13.82
* Local component              5.01      4.94     5.68      7.39      8.46
Foreign component            8.30    10.06    11.09    12.05       14.90
2.19     The proposed plan appears extremely ambitious in comparison to NPC's
recent capital expenditures which totalled only P 5 billion in 1987 and P 4
billion in 1988. The recent dip in capital spending, down from P 10 billion
in 1984, was due to the expectation that the nuclear power plant (para. 2.01)
would meet Luzon's growing demand through the early 1990s, and NPC's
consequent lack of planned investments. Since all the proposed projects in
NPC's investment program are needed urgently, the company intends to make a
concerted effort to meet its targets. NPC has already secured financing for
about P 6 billion of projected 1989 investments, and is expected to sustain
this momentum into 1990 and beyond. It also expects to generate about P 43
billion of internal cash, net of debt service, during 1989-93. The balance of
total investment in the period, amounting to at least P 45 billion, is
expected to be financed from foreign borrowings. In order to ensure efficient
cash and debt management by NPC, it was agreed during negotiations that NPC
may incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its net revenues
after expenditures, for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred,
shall be at least 1.3 times its projected debt service requirement.
F. National Electrification Administration
2.20     The NEA was established in 1969 to promote Rural Electrification
Cooperatives, initially with the aim of bringing about total electrification
by 1985. To date, about 140 RECs have been established with 118 in actual
operation, serving about 3.0 million households. Currently, slightly more
than 502 of the population has access to electricity services.
2.21     The NEA's effectiveness has been undermined by several factors.
Beginning in 1975, NEA was given responsibility for special projects that were
unrelated to its electrification functions, such as the establishment of
livelihood projects in rural areas and experiments in renewable energy
sources. The REC Boards were politicized, and non-economic interests often



- 18 -
came into play. Political pressures dissuaded the RECs from disconnecting
nonpaying customers (including some large industrial and commercial customers)
or taking action against pilferers; in addition, political considerations
combined with inadequate information dissuaded the RECs from maintaining their
charges at acceptable levels and containing their overhead costs. Consequent-
ly, the financial position of virtually all RECs deteriorated rapidly and
defaults in payment to creditors, especially NPC and NEA, have been common.
By 1985, NEA and the RECs were nearly insolvent. Since then, the situation
has improved only margJnally, due to (a) the time consuming process of
reorienting NEA's activities towards its core business and away from the
auxiliary responsibilities of the past; and (b) government funding constraints
that have prevented implementation of the necessary NEA/REC restructuring.
The Bank has recently completed a Rural Electrification Sector Study (Report
8016-PH; Nov. 9, 1989). An assessment of the problems which NEA and RECs are
facing has been done and recommendations ti remedy the situation are under
consideration by the Government.
I



- 19 -
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Origin
3.01     The proposed project evolved as a sequel to the Energy Sector Study,
which was completed by the Bank in 1988. In the course of discussions of the
draft study in July 1988, a consensus emerged among the Government, the sector
entities and the Bank, that the Bank could most effectively assist the sector
through an energy sector project which would support the implementation of a
comprehensive sector strategy as well as finance the 1989-93 investment
requirements of OEA, ERB, NPC, PNOC, NEA and EMB and several other related
iector needs. The Export-Import Bank of Japan (Eximbank) has expressed
interest in providing financing in parallel with the Bank for some components
of the proposed investments.
B. Objectives
3.02     Discussions of the completed Energy Sector Study resulted in
agreement between the Government and the Bank on the development strategy to
be pursued in the energy sector. The components of that strategy are:
(a) development of a sector-wide capability to plan for energy resource
development and to coordinate policy implementation in the sector;
(b) adoption of least-cost development strategies for the various energy
subsectors; (c) strengthening of regulatory activities, with the intentions o.
rationalizing consumer energy prices and improving product standards and
quality of service; (d) encouragement of private sector participation in the
energy sector through joint ventures and other schemes; (e) improvement of
environmental standards and monitoring in areas of high energy use or resource
development; and (f) enhancement of the technical capabilities of sector
institutions, particularly OEA, ERB and EMB. The proposed project thus has
two complementary but distinct objectives: the first is to assist the
Government to implement the agrced strategy, and the second is to help the
Government to finance a time-slice of its investment program for the period
1989-93. The development strategy has been translated into a collection of
action programs to be implemented by the sector entities and has been issued
by the Government as a Statement of Energy Policy (Annex 3.1). During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government, NPC and PNOC on a
schedule of action to be taken conforming to the policy (Annex 3.2). The
ensuing paragraphs review the action plans to be implemented by the various
sector agencies and the specifics of the corresponding investment program
which Bank financing will support.
C. Action Plans and Investment Programs
Philippines National Oil Company
3.03     Action Plan.  The PNOC will focus on the implementstion of its
investment program, confirmation of the potential of new steam fields which



- 20 -
are currently being studied so that NPC may plan for utilization of the steam,
and, as mandated by the Government, the privatization of as many of its
current activities as possible. PNOC earlier decided to divest its coal and
ship repair activities and to seek foreign participation in oil development.
To spur interest in foreign participation in oil exploration, PNOC and OEA
jointly carried out a major promotional campaign in several key c'3untries in
late 1987, and much interest was shown by the oil companies. A few geophys-
ical survey contracts have already been signed and more are under negotiation;
the success of these surveys and of the ensuing well drilling will decide what
further action PNOC takes in this regard.
3.04     PNOC also intends to seek private sector participation in the
exploitation of geothermal resources, (para. 1.20). It is presently preparing
with Bank assistance procedures to invite private parties to enter into joint
investment ventures. The proposed loan would be available for financing
PNOC's share of investments.
3.05     Investment Program.  PNOC's investments in the energy sector loan
will cover geothermal appraisal and development, to be undertaken by PNOC-EDC,
on prospective sites in Luzon and Visayas; debottlenecking of refinery
facilities, to be undertaken by PNOC-PETRON; and institutional strengthening
of PNOC's planning and project implementation capabilities in the geothermal
and petroleum refining areas. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
PNOC that it will, by November 15 of each year, prepare and review with the
Bank its investment plan for the forthcoming year and for the following four
years (para. 5.02).
3.06     Investment in Geothermal Development.  PNOC-EDC, in close
collaboration with NPC, has formulated a program of geothermal delineation and
field development for 1989-1993 which is expected to add about 610 MW of
capacity through the execution of projects in Luzon (490 MW) and the Visayas
(120 MW). In addition the Tongonan field in the Visayas has proven reserves
of 400 MW, with a potential of 800-1200 MW, which would not, however, be
available for utilization in the market in Luzon until the completion of an
interconnection between Leyte and Luzon. A feasibility study for the
interconnection, financed under Loan 2969-PH, is expected to be completed by
end-1989. Preliminary reports from the consultant have already confirmed the
techno-economic feasibility of the project and Bank appraisal of this project
is expected to commence by December 1989.
3.07     The geothermal investments to be financed under the project (namely
projects which are scheduled to be completed by 1993) are as follows:
(a) completion of delineation drilling on prcspective sites in Luzon and
the Visayas;
(b) engineering, procurement, fabrication, installation and commissioning
of steam-gathering systems at the various sites for about 380 MW;
(c) drilling of additional production and reinjection wells; and



- 21 -
(d) consultancy services for geothermal reservoir assessment and
engineering.
3.08     The schedule of planned geothermal well drilling and steamfield
commissioning is given in Annex 3.3. From the 124 wells included in the
table, drilling of 76 wells will be financed under the sector loan. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with PNOC that PNO -EDC will, after
completion of the delineation work at each site, prepare a resource assessment
and development  strategy study, with the assistance of an independent
international consulting organization, acceptable to the Bank, which shall
form the basis for geothermal power development investments (para. 5.02).
3.09     Investments in Debottleneck'in& of Processina Refinerv Capability.
PETRON's Bataan refinery is faced with a rising demand for petroleum products,
coupled with tightened specifications for product qualities, with a view to
lowering pollution. The refinery's maximum processing capacity is about
135,000 barrels of oil per day at a 902 service factor. Recent studies have,
however, indicated that this total capacity is limited by specific process
units and handling facilities, which become bottlenecks during peak production
periods. To maximize the refinery's processing capability, PETRON has so far
identified certain specific facilities which require debottlenecking or
balancing of capacities, and within this framework, the following investments
will be undertaken under the sector loan (other facilities where identified
for debottlenecking will be reviewed by the Bank):
(a) upgrading of facilities producing liquified petroleum gas (LPG),
including a new LPG Merox unit, an additional Thermal Catalytic
Cracker gas compressor and debottlenecking of the fractionating
absorber; and
(b) an additional diesel desulfurizer, including a new gas oil hydrofiner
and additional rundown coolers.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with PNOC that PETRON will seek the
assistance of an independent, international consulting organization acceptable
to the Bank, to prepare a technical and supervision plan for implementation of
this component of the project (para. 5.02).
3.10     Institutional Development of PNOC.  PNOC has prepared an outline plan
for developing the managerial and professional skills of its senior staff.
These involve deputing staff abroad for special training courses and for
attending seminars and conferences on selected subjects as well as inviting of
experts to run training programs in the Philippines and do system studies
related to corporate planning, project management and execution and such other
subjects as would upgrade corporate efficiency. Agreement has been reached
that by June 1990, PNOC will prepare a detailed institutional development
program and adopt it for implementation after review by the Bank (para. 5.02).
National Power Corporation
3.11     Action Plan.  The NPC action plan aims at creating a policy environ-
ment which will enable the economy to meet its rapidly increasing demand for



- 22 -
power without imposing a large burden on government budgetary resources.
This, inter alia, involves:
(a) the preparation of a least-cost development program which optimizes
the fuel mix for power generation (geothermal, coal, oil and hydro)
and strikes a proper balance between system rehabilitation and
expansion. During negotiations, agreement was reached with NPC that
by November 15 of each year it will prepare and review with the Bank
its investment plans for the forthcoming year and for the following
four years (para. 5.03). This review will be undertaken in an effort
to ensure that the program continues to be least-cost and feasible;
(b, greater participation of the private sector; in this regard NPC has
finalized and issued rules and regulations for participation of
private investors in power generation; it has already entered into
one BOT agreement for gas turbine power generation and is planning to
invite bids on BOT/BOOT bases for coal-based power generation at
Calaca; and
(c)the rationalization of tariffs under an action plan for the phased
implementation of a pricing system based on long-run marginal costs (LRMC).
During negotiations, agreement was reached with NPC that in a first phase of
the plan to be completed by December 31, 1990 the misallocation between
capacity and energy charges will be partially remedied by changing the ratio
from the existing 1:99 to 30:70; also, by the same date a program for
implementation of the further corrections of the capacity and the energy
charges will be prepared.
3.12     Investment Program.  NPC investments which are scheduled to be
completed by 1993 and thus eligible to be financed under the proposed loan are
listed in Annex 3.4. The broad categories are as follow:
(a) Generation Expansion. This includes the completion of ongoinglnew
construction of: (i) the 300 MW coal-fired Calaca II unit, currently
under installation; (ii) 700 MW of combustion turbine (open cycle)
capacity in Luzon, 115 MW in Visayas and 150 MW in Mindanao to
support the system's urgent peaking requirements; (iii) a 110 MW
geothermal unit at Bacon Manito I (partly financed under Bank Loan
2969-PH); and (iv) modular geothermal units of twelve 20 MW capacity
in Luzon and four 20 MW in Visayas (modular 20 MW geothermal units
have recently been determined to be faster and less costly to install
than units of 110 MW size). Detailed feasibility and engineering
studies have been completed by NPC for most of the generation
expansion projects.
(b) Generation Plant Rehabilitation. Four generating units at the Sucat
thermal power station would be rehabilitated, based on studies
carried out by consultants and a subsequent evaluation by the Bank.
The first stage of rehabilitation, covering Sucat units I and IV,
will extend unit life and efficiency, and result in incremental
capacity of 120 MW. This would be followed by rehabilitation of
Sucat units II and III which would yield ar. additional 80 MW of



- 23 -
recovered capacity. In addition, diesel power plants in the islands
of Mindanao, Cebu, Negros, Panay and Bohol would be rehabilitated;
this will provide an incremental capacity of 29 MW, and extend the
service lives of these plants.
(c) Transmission. Expansion and Rehabilitation. The following new lines
would be constructed under the project: (i) the 500 kV, 82 km, San
Jose-Kalayaan line, the first leg of the Philippines North-South EHV
grid; (ii) about 430 km of 230 kV lines; (iii) about 1,315 km of
115-138 kV lines; and (iv) about 1,800 km of 69 kV lines. A major
rehabilitation of the transJission system is planned for the Luzon
grid and is being financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
Expansion of substations envisages the addition of about 3,200 MVA of
transformer capacity at the 230 kV voltage level and about 620 MVA at
lower voltage levels, together with the associated switching,
compensation, protection, control and communication facilities.
Feasibility studies and engineering documents for most of the
transmission projects have been prepared by NPC.
(d) Incremental Working Capital. This will consist of spare parts and
initial inventories of fuel for newly installed power plants.
3.13     Institutional Development. Institutional strengthening of NPC is
already in progress with funding under the Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power
Development Project (Loan 2969-PH) and ADB's Power Sector Loan. NPC will
complement these activities with a training program for the efficient
operation and maintenance of the diverse types of power stations (coal,
geothermal and combustion turbine) which NPC will install during the next
decade. To strengthen its training capabilities, NPC has also proposed to
acquire a training simulator, based on computer models of the power plants and
the grid, which would simulate real-life situations for the training of
operators. Training in plant maintenance is proposed to be prepared with the
help of a professional organization and practiced on a hands-on basis, using
NPC's retired generating units; a scheme for construction of a central main-
tenance workshop facility has also been prepared. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with NPC that by June 30, 1990 it will prepare a
training program for its staff in engineering, operations, maintenance and
management. The training program and its implementation will be reviewed with
the Bank (para. 5.03).
National Electrification Administration
3.14 (a) Action Plan. After consideration is given to the recommendations to
be made to the Government following on the Rural Electrification Sector Study
recently completed by the Bank, an action plan will be drawn for NEA.
Nevertheless, there is immediate need to train some staff of NEA and the RECs
and make some investments in rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
equipment. A minimum investment plan has accordingly been developed and is
explained below.
(b) Investment Plan. Limited to the core, the plan detailed in Anniex
3.7, includes NEA's investments in (a) improving its own functional capacity



- 24 -
through the provision of better equipment and upgrading the operational
quality of the Regional offices and zonal repair and maintenance facilities;
(b) installing an additional substation at about 8 RECs; (c) upgrading power
transformer capacity at about 8 RECs; and (d) upgrading and rehabilitating the
distribution system at about 11 RECs.
The Office of Energv Affairs
3.15      Action Plan.  OEA's actior. plan is aimed at equipping itself to
better discharge its mandate to play a coordinating role in the energy sector.
The proposed project would provide US$4.3 million for these activities as
follows. Details are given in Annex 3.5.
(a) Studies.  OEA, by virtue of its role as the  policy adviser* to the
Government in the energy sector, has decided to take up a few
studies, which it proposes to carry out with the assistance of
consultants. These relate to: (i) cost structures and transfer
pricing in the petroleum industry; (ii) the environmental impact of
accelerated geothermal development; (iii) the non-power application
of geothermal power plant effluents; (iv) a fuel contingency plan in
the event of disruption in oil supply; and (v) the feasibility of
large-scale development of non-conventional energy sources; and
(b) Institutional Strengthening. Technical assistance would be secured to
help develop an energy sector data base, to improve the sectoral
information system and to train staff in power systems planning,
regional energy demand forecasting, and the administration of
geothermal operations.
3.16     Investment Programs:  This consists of procurement of equipment and
supplies as follows. Computers and office equipment would be procured for the
improvement of the sector information system. In addition, computer hardware
and software, laboratory equipment and field instruments for sampling and
measurements would be procured to help OEA perform its responsibilities
related to issuing licenses for energy prospecting, development and production
and the ensuing monitoring and inspection of these activities.
Energy Regulatory Board
3.17     Action Plan.  To better discharge its existing and increasing duties,
ERB would enhance its monitoring and analysis capabilities through the
implementation of a program of institutional strengthening. During 1989-93,
this will involve an investment of US$3.0 million which is proposed to be
financed under the project. Specifics of the program are given in Annex 3.8
and a summary is given below:
(a) Training. The technical capabilities of ERB staff would be enhanced
through the provision of training programs as well as staff
participation in seminars and conferences. A major part of the
training program would aim at developing capabilities in assessing
long-run marginal cost prices of the power sector; the review of



- 25 -
marginal cost based pricing system constitutes a new function for EkB
(para. 3.11).
(b) Organization and Management: With'a view to restructuring the
organization in tune with its expanding functions, ERB has proposed
to seek the assistance of consultants to review its organization and
propose a new structure. The review is expected to result in a
phased restructuring of ERB over the next four years.
3.18     Investmenet Pr_ram:  ERB's investments will be to upgrade certain
testing faciliticv  and to acquire modern office equipment, as follows:
(a) Petroleum Product Testing. A petroleum product testing laboratory
would be developed and modern instruments and equipment will be
procured to enhance ERB's ability to test and analyze sample
petroleum products accurately and to inspect product outlets;
(b) Meter Testing. The existing electric meter laboratory, testing
facilities and equipment would be modernized/expanded to enhance
ERB's capability to inspect the facilities and equipment of electric
utilities, and to test and calibrate their electric meters; and
(c) Information System. The Board's information dissemination ctpability
would be upgraded and enhanced through the establishment and
operation of an up-to-date technical library and audio-visual system
to disseminate information on ERB's regulatory practices.
Environmental Management Bureau
3.19     Action Plan.  While environmental effects of energy activities and
investments had received consideration by the Government in the past, there
has been a heightened sensitivity in the recent years to the consequences of
rapid energy se,tor expansion. EMB, entrusted with all aspects of
environmental protection and safeguards including those specific to the energy
sector, has found itself ill equipped to dis harge its vastly enhanced
responsibilities. To remedy this situation, ..MB has designed a phased program
of environmental analysis and monitoring comprising comprehensive air and
water quality monitoring and surveillance; assessment, control and prevention
of pollution from particular stationary sources; improvement of environmental
impact assessments; modernization of laboratory facilities for analysis of
field samples; and training of staff using consultants. In regard to the
challenges presented by the expanding energy sector, ERB has a first phase
program of action targeted at areas where energy-related pollution is expected
to be the greatest. An investment plan to support such action has been drawn
up (Annex 3.6).
3.20     Investment Plan.  The investment plan in the first phase covered by
the proposed project will comprise: (a) acquisition of portable monitoring
equipment for use by the EMB headquarters and three of the regions in Luzon
and equipping the laboratory at EMB headquarters to analyze the samples
gathered; (b) establishing of six baseline sampling stations in Manila and
nine in Southern Luzon and providing the equipment and facilities needed; and



- 26 -
(c) strengthening the regional zffices at Baguio, Cebu and Davao cities
through supply of portable equipment for monitoring compliance with
environmental regulations. EMB will hire consultants to help choose the right
equipment and accessories, and in setting up programs for data collection,
analysis, quality assurance and training of staff.
D. Investment Costs
3.21     The tctal cost of the proposed investment programz considered under
the proposed project for the period 1989-93 is estimated at about. US$3,509
million (P 77 billion), excluding interest during construction. About
US$2,455 million (70X) of this amount would be in foreign exchange. Summary
project cost estimates are given in the following table; detailed cost                      r
estimates of activities to be carried out by the six implementing agencies are
provided in Annex 3.8. Base costs are expressed in July 1989 prices.
Physical contingencies are estimated to be 102 of base costs. Price
contingencies are based on projected price increases in foreign costs of 7.22
in 1989-90 and 4.42 thereafter and in local costs of 9Z for 1989-91 And 82
thereafter.



- 27 -
Table 3.1: SUMHARY OF INVESTMENT COSTS
Foreign
Local    Foreign      Total      Local  Foreign   Total  as Z of
Pesos million -------           -------US$ million----   Total
PNOC
Base Cost       7,698.5  5,326.0  13,024.5    358.1    247.7    605.8
Contingencies  2,263.6  1,566.0   3,829.4        80.0     55.4    135.4
Subtotal    9,962.1  6,892.0  16,854.1    438.1    303.1    741.2   41.0
NPC
Base Cost      11,001.6 41,252.1  52,253.7    511.7  1,918.7  2,430.4
Contingen-
cies           1,305.7  4,685.8   6,991.5       95.0    196.6    291.6
Subtotal   13,307.3 45,937.8  59,245.1    606.7  2,115.3  2,722.0   77.7
OEA La              46.2      47.4      93.5       2.1       2.2      4.3   50.6
ERB La              47.3      17.2      64.5       2.2       0.8      3.0   26.7
EMB /a               6.4    255.8      262.3       0.3      11.9     12.2   97.5
NEA la              92.5    478.5      571.0       4.3     22.2      26.5   83.8
Total invest.  20,391.7 56,698.8  77,090.5  1,053.7  2,455.5  3,509.2   70.0
/a   Including contingencies.
E. Financina Arrangements
3.22     The Bank would provide three loans totalling US$390 million, for the
proposed project, respective' .y to PNOC (US$150 million), NPC (US$200 million),
and the Government (US$40 million). The loans to PNOC and NPC would be
guaranteed by the Republic of the Philippines. Of its share, the Government
would transfer US$22.2 million equivalent to NEA as equity and the balance of
US$17.8 million to OEA, ERB, and EMB as budgetary support. Japan's Eximbank
would make a loan of US$150 million to NPC to be disbursed under a parallel
financing arrangement with the Bank loan to NPC.  Several other loans,
totalling US$1,170.0 million from other sources (Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of Japan (OECF), ADB, French and Italian bilateral assistance) and IBRD
loan 2969-PH have already been committed. The balance would be provided from
internal cash generation and other local financing. The overall financing
plan is shown in Table 3.2.



_ 28 -
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign       Total
PNOC
OECF, ADB and World Bank /a                -          100.0         100.0
World Bank Sector Project                   -         150.0         150.0
Internal cash & other financing          438.1         53.1         491.3
Subtotal                                 438.1        303.1         741.2
NPC
Committed Loan
(OECF, Eximbank, ADB, World Bank /b
Italian & French)                        110.5        794.5         905.0
Loans under negotiation                   22.0        143.0         165.0
World Bank Sector Project                  50.0       150.0         200.0
Eximbank Loan                             50.0        100.0         150.0
Internal cash & other financing          374.2        927.8       1,302.0
Subtotal                                 606.7      2,115.3       2,722.0
OEA
World Bank Sector Project                   2.1         2.2           4.3
ERB
World Bank Sector Project                   2.2         0.8            3.0
EMB
World Bank Sector Project                   0.3        10.1          10.4
Grant funds                                 -           1.8           1.8
Subtotal                                    0.3        11.9          12.2
NEA
World Bank Sector Project                   -          22.2          22.2
Local financing-                            4.3         -             4.3
Subtotal                                   4.3         22.2          26.5
Total                                   1,053.7      2,455.5       3,509.2
of which:
Committed loans from foreign
sources                              132.5      1,037.5       1,170.0
World Bank Sector Project                  55.2       334.8         390.0
Eximbank Loan                             50.0        100.0         150.0
Internal cash & other financing          816.0        983.2       1,799.2
La  US$41 million from Bank loan No. 2969-PH
/b  US$59 million from Bank loan No. 2969-PH



- 29 -
3.23     From the Bank loan of US$150 million, PNOC will on-lend US$133
million to PNOC-EDC, on the same terms and conditions as the World Bank loan,
with PNOC-EDC bearing the foreign exchange risk. Loan funds will be used for
field delineation and development activities. Due to uncertainty in the
resource potential of various fields, the allocation of funds to these fields
will be reviewed and, as needed, revised annually. US$14 million will be on-
lent to PETRON for financing the refinery debottlenecking program on the same
terms and conditions as the 'World Bank loan, with PETRON bearing the foreign
exchange risk. The balance of US$3 millicn will be retained by PNOC for
institutional strengthening as described in para. 4.10. Provisiorns will
however be made for the onlent amounts to PNOC-EDC and PETRON to be adjusted
within a minimum of $118 million for PNOC-EDC and a maximum of $29 million for
PETRON. The signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between PNOC and PNOC-EDC
and PNOC and PETRON would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
3.24     The Bank loan to NPC, along with the Eximbank loan, will provide
US$350 million against NPC's total investment requirement of about US$2.72
billion. In order to bridge the financing gap effectively and to achieve
flexibility in procurement, NPC projects have been divided into the following
categories (see also Annex 3.4):
(A) projects for which financing has already been arranged, or is being
arranged mostly through official development assistance and some BOT
schemes. This category amounts to about US$1,070 million;
(B) projects for which financing will specifically be sought from the
World Bank and Eximbank loans. This will include the bulk of NPC's
transmission and substation projects, two combustion turbine projects
and an increase in working capital up to $30 million. This category
amounts to about US$760 million; and
(C) projects for which NPC will call for World Bank financing together
with optional supplier financing proposals. Bids will be evaluated
on a cash basis and contracts will be awarded to the bidder with the
lowest evaluated bid. If the selected bidder has an attractive
financing proposal, NPC may accept that proposal. Otherwise, NPC
will use World Bank/Eximbank funds as under category (B). Currently,
the following projects are foreseen to be included in this category:
Calaca III coal-fired station; 200 MW combustion turbines in Luzon;
the island interconnection projects; and the Sucat II and III and
diesel rehabilitation projects. This category amounts to about
US$P'O million.
3.25     DurinX the course of implementation, NPC will have the flexibility to
interchange prcjects between categories (B) and (C). It may also shift
components frot: (A) to (B) if it decides to use International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines, to bid or rebid
these components. The list of items to be financed by the World Bank and
Eximbank loans will be agreed each year by NPC management and the Bank during
annual reviews of the investment program. The World Bank and Eximbank loans



- 30 -
may also be utilized to finance NPC costs in possible joint ventures/BOT
schemes in participation with the private sector provided that the procurement
arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank.
F. Implementation Arranaements
Subproject Selection Procedures
3.26     Final selection and approval of individual subprojects from the
investment plan for impLementation tuder the proposed loan would be carried
out Rs follows:
(a) an annual review of the investment program and implementation of
policy actions will be prepared by NPC and PNOC for submission to ECC
and NEDA following normal processing procedures;
(b) feasibility studies for specific projects in the investment program
will be prepared and submitted by all agencies to NEDA following
normal processing procedures;
(c) the Bank will review, on an annual basis with the Government and the
concerned entities, the approved projects and finalize the list of
components to be funded by the World Bank and Eximbank loans during
the following year; and
(d) supervision of the projects funded by the World Bank and Eximbank
loans will be carried out following standard Bank procedures.
Proiect Implementation
3.27     Many of the subprojects fall wholly within the purview of individual
entities and project implementation thereof will be within the responsibility
of these entities.  All entities have adequate capacity to implement projects,
however areas where assistance from consultants/third party services will be
needed have been identified. In those instances where there is
interdependence between entities, either at the project execution level or at
the policy level, coordination will be provided through a proposed Project
Implementation Committee (PIC) comprising high level representatives from all
the entities. OEA will be the convener of the meetings of the committee.
Formal orders on the setting up of the committee will be issued by the
Government. Establishment of the Project Implementation Committee will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 5.04). The committee will have the
following functions among others:
(a) monitoring preparation of feasibility studies for subprojects, of the
processing for approval through ECC/NEDA/ICC and of review by the
Bank;
(b) monitoring preparation of updated investment program from time to
time, of the processing for approvals by ECC/NEDA and of review by
the Bank;



- 31 -
(c) preparing a list of approved subprojects and of components for
financing under the proposed loan on an annual basis;
;
(d) preparing a summary from quarterly progress reports to be obtained
from the different project implementing entities, particularly to
cover the key implementation activities schedule, the progress of
major procurement contracts and the disbursements. The summary
report will be submitted to ECC and a copy given to the Bank; and
(e) preparation of an annual report, based on submissions by the
entities, on the policy actions in terms of the action plans for
placing before ECC, with copy to the Bank.
3.28     The committee will meet at least once each quarter.  OEA will
function as the secretariat of the committee. Minutes of the meetings will be
circulated.
G. Procurement
3.29     Procurement arrangements for the project are sunmmarized in Table 3.3.
Details are given at Annex 3.9.  Goods and services financed under the
proposed Bank and Eximbank loans would be procured using ICB procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines, except as noted below. Local manufacturers,
at the Borrower's option, would be eligible for a margin of preference equal
to 152 of the CI? bid price of imported goods or the prevailing customs and
other levies, whichever is lower. All contracts for goods and services
costing more than US$1 million and likely to involve Bank financing would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of all procurement documentation. This
would result in the advance review by the Bank of contracts valued at about
802 of the aggregate loan amounts.
3.30     Civil and erection works for NPC transmission lines, substations, and
power plants which are generally too small and geographically spread to
attract foreign firms, will be carried out following local competitive bidding
(LCB) acceptable to the Bank. Any single package valued in excess of US$5
million will be procured by ICB.
3.31     The services and equipment needs of specialized operations (e.g.,
components for rehabilitation) as well as minor packages of equipment,
materials, instruments and spare parts will be procured from qualified
suppliers, using either LCB, limited international bidding (LIB),
international shopping, or direct contracting (DC) as appropriate and after
consultation with the Bank. The limits in using the above procedures will be:
OEA, ERB, EME and NEA, an aggregate amount of US$15 million with a further
limit of US$100,000 per LCB contract; PNOC, an aggregate amount of US$37
million with a further limit of US$200,000 per LCB contract; and NPC, an
aggregate amount of US$30 million with a further limit of US$200,000 per LCB
cor,.ract. Wells which will be drilled on force account, using PNOC's rigs and
crews, will not be financed under the Bank loan. Procurement of fuels (fuel
oil and coal) would follow LIB procedures; in the event that fuel oil is



- 32 -
procured from a local refinery, NPC would advise the Bank, prior to placing an
order, of the ex-refinery price (net of taxes and duties) and of the spot
price, insurance and freight to demonstrate that the ex-refinery price is
lower than the delivered cost based on international prices. Consultant
services will be contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 33 -
Table 3.3:  SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Pi3curement Method
Agency                                               LIB/DC                Total
Category                      ICB        LCB        Other        N/A
PNOC
Equipment and Material    317.2           2.0        156.6                475.8
(99.8)       (2.0)       (33.4)             (135.2)
Services                                              10.7      241.6    252.3
(7.7)               (7.7)
Consulting Services                                   13.1                 13.1
and Training                                       (7.1)                (7.1)
Subtotal               317.2         2.0        180.4      241.6    741.2
(99.8)       (2.01       (48.2)             (150.0)
NPC
Equipment and             2,009.9                    301.4       70.6  2,381.9
Material la               (113.5)                   (30.0)              (143.5)
Civil & Erection Works                  338.1                             338.1
(54.5)                           (54.5)
Consultancy Studies                                    2.0                  2.0
and Training                                        (2.0)                (2.0)
Subtotal            2,009.9        338.1        303.4       70.6  2X722.0
(113.5)      (54.5)       L32.0)             (200.0)
OEA-ERB-EMB-NEA
Equipment and Material       20.7         6.4           7.7       3.5      38.3
(20.3)       (5.7)        (7.5)              (33.5)
Consultancy Studies
and Training                                          7.5                  7.5
(6.5)               (6.5)
Subtotal                20.7         6.4         15.2        3.5      45.8
(20.3)       (5.7)       (14.0)              (40.0)
TOTAL               2.347.8        346.5        499.0      315.7  3,509.0
(233.6)      (62.2)       (94.2)             (390.0)
la   Bank financing will also cover the incremental working capital consisting
of increase in the level of inventories of spare parts and the initial
inventories of fuel oil and coal for the newly installed power plants;
the total financing of spare parts is limited to US$16 million and the
total financing of fuels is limited to US$14 million.



- 34 -
H. Disbursement
3.32     The Bank loans would be disbursed against (a) 1002 of the foreign
expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 1002 of local
expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured items procured through ICB;
(c) 702 of local expenditure for materials and works procured locally; (d) 80S
of the cost of imported goods procured locally (e.g., chemicals); (e) 502 of
fuels purchased for the initial inventories of newly installed power plants;
and (f) 1002 of total expenditures for consulting services.
3.33     Reimbursements of expenditures for contracts valued at less than
US$200,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures
(SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained by the agencies
and made available for review by the Bank. To facilitate project
disbursements, three Special Accounts in fully convertible currency will be
established in a commercial bank, one for NPC, another for PNOC and the third
for the other agencies together. The third Special Account will be operated
by the Department of Finance (DOF) on behalf of the agencies concerned. DOF
will nominate a unit to function as a disbursement processing unit tc manage
the Special Account and process withdrawals. The authorized allocations to
the Special Accounts will be US$15 million for NPC, US$10 million for PNOC,
and US$5 million for the other agencies. Replenishments to the Special
Accounts would be made quarterly or whenever the accounts are drawn down by
about 502 of the amount of the initial deposit.
3.34     Retroactive financing of US$8 million for PNOC and US$15 million for
NPC of the respective Bank loans is recommended to cover expenditures for the
proposed investment program made after April 30, 1989 by these agencies in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. Components, notably from PNOC
and NPC investment program and totalling around US$100 million, are already at
an advanced stage of design and bidding preparation.
3.35     Anmex 3.10 shows the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank
loans. There is no information on a typical disbursement profiles for a time-
slice energy operation. However, the annex includes the Bank's disbursement
profile for power projects in Asia Region. The Closing Date for all three
loans would be December 31, 1994.
I. Monitorina, Reporting and Audit
3.36     OEA will furnish to the Bank summary quarterly reports on the
progress of the project (para. 4.24). Under normal supervision procedures,
periodic detailed reports on the physical and financial progress of the
subprojects will be called for from the entities. NPC and PNOC-EDC will
furnish these reports each quarter in the month following each period. Others
will do so every six months. A project completion report by each borrower
will be submitted within six months after respective loan is closed. Key
activities for Bank monitoring are outlined in Annex 3.11. A tentative
schedule for Bank monitoring of the project is given in Annex 3.12.



- 35 -
3.37     The Comission on Audits (COA) has auditing responsibilities in
respect of all the beneficiaries. While the commercial enterprises among
these, namely PNOC, PNOC-EDC, PETRON, NPC and NEA use an accounting system
based on accepted commercial principles; the others, namely OEA, ERB and EMB,
being branches within the Government follow a cash accounting system. The
auditing arrangements are considered satisfactory. The OEA will collect the
compliance reviews of the agencies by COA and make them available for Bank
review. For the subprojects financed under the proposed project, the entities
will maintain separate accounts so as to facilitate compilation from time to
time of the periodic reports referred to in the preceding paragraph. During
negotiations an understanding was reached with the entities on audit
certification of these (subproject) accounts on an anriual basis within six
months of the close of each year and the furnishing of copies thereof to the
Bank.
J. Environmental Concerns
3.38     Environmental impact assessment reports will be prepared by the
implementing agencies for each energy subproject to be executed and will be
reviewed by EMB, which itself will be strengthened during the project period.
The Bank has initiated its own review of these reports. The subsequent
compliance certificate to be issued by EMB on completion of each subproject
will also be reviewed by the Bank. Primarily, designs of plants and equipment
will be expected to incorporate standards for necessary protection of the
environment.  The particular environmental problems in the proposed lending
operation are: emission of hydrogen sulfides, noise and thermal releases in
geothermal fields, drainage of geothermal fluids, pollutants from power plants
(chiefly coal-fired), the environmental impact of high-voltage transmission
lines, noise levels, and impaired water quality by effluents from power
plants. Another area of concern is the potential land use conversions and
subsequent socio-economic consequences that may arise, e.g., by providing
access to remote locations through energy sector exploration and project
construction/operation. Continuous attention will be given to these and other
problems and their resolution by the agencies, EMB and the Bank.
3.39     In addition, the project will assist the Government in (a)
rationalizing environmental monitoring activities by establishing clear roles
for NPC, PNOC and EMB, and (b) strengthening the institutional and technical
capabilities of the Bureau to carry out its monitoring tasks. The Bank is
expected to play a major role in the design and implementation of the
streamlined environmental monitoring system by reviewing the current practices
and assisting the Government in estabishing an appropriate program of action.
The program is outlined in Annex 3.6. The Bank Supervision missions
(Annex 3.12) will, at appropriate intervals, include an environmental
specialist to provide support in this area.
3.40     During the preparation of this project, the Bank concluded that there
is a need for environmental issues and concerns to be considered in an overall
perspective at the higher decision making levels at an early stage of project
preparation. EMB's recommendations on environmental aspects of a new energy
project should accordingly be available to ECC at the initial stages of



- 36 -
conception. With this in view, during negotiations, understanding was reached
with the Government that: (a) for a careful consideration of adverse
environmental and socio-economic impacts at the early stages of project
evaluation, ECC would invite DENR to participate in the relevant meetings; and
(b) for an energy project involving more than one entity, a lead agency will
be determined by ECC and the lead agency thereupon will be responsible for the
preparation of the joint environmental impact assessment and subsequent follow
up.



- 37 -
IV. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Justification
4.01     The proposed project encompasses the first (1989-93) phase of a
least-cost development strategy to minimize the total cost of power
generation, including the exploration and development costs of geothermal
resources, construction of power plants, and reinforcement of the transmission
system. Its components all contribute to reorienting the energy sector to a
development path with substantial savings in capital and operating costs.
Least-cost Analysis
4.02     During the Energy Sector Study and in the course of preparation of
this project, the Bank reviewed the investment programs of the energy sector
institutions. Options for future development are Luzon geothermal, Tongonan
geothermal, indigenous coal from the Semirara and Isabela mines, imported coal
and several hydro sites. The average incremental costs (AIC) of energy from
these options are estimated as follows (details in Annex 4.1):
Table 4.1: INCREMENTAL COST OF POWER GENERATION
AIC
Option                        Capacity              (USO/kWh)
Thermalt
Imported coal                           300 MW                      3.46
Semirara coal                           300 MW                      4.50
Fuel oil                                300 MW                      4.32
Geothermal:
Luzon geothermal                         55 MW                      2.90
Tongonan geothermal
Alternating Current transmission       450 MW                      2.72
Direct Current transmission            450 MW                      3.10
Hydro:
Pantay                                   23 MW                      7.09
San Roque                               390 MW                      6.61
Casecnan                                268 MW                      5.54
Abra                                    174 MW                      7.96
Diduyon                                 352 MW                      5.83
BalogBalog                               33 MW                      9.74
Agos (Kaliwa)                           140 MW                     12.72
Matuno                                  180 MW                       9.11
Gened                                   600 MW                      9.69



- 38 -
4.03     While the above cost figures provide an indication of the relative
economic positions of various options, least-cost analysis had to be carried
out to determine the sequence and timing of developing these options. Table
4.2 presents summary results of this analysis, with details in Anr.ex 4.2. As
indicated by this table, geothermal and imported coal represent the least-cost
development options in the short and medium terms. For the long term, certain
hydro projects may become viable if the ongoing review of their cost indicates
significant potential savings.
Table 4.2: LEAST-COST DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Year                      Plant                              Capacity (MW)
1990             Combustion turbines                                500
1992             Makban 7 geothermal                                 60
1992             Bacon Manito I geothermal                          110
1992             Combustion turbine                                 200
1992             Bacon-Manito II geothermal                          40
1992             Maibarara Geothermal                                20
1993             Calaca II coal                                     300
1993             Luzon (Pinatubo/Natib) geothermal                  120
1993             Calaca III coal                                    300
1994             Luzon geothermal                                   240
1995             Tongonan geothermal I (imported coal a/)           440
1996             Tongonan geothermal II (imported coal a/)          440
1997             Imported coal                                    2*300
1998             Imported coal                                    2*300
1999             Imported coal                                    2*300
2000             Coal (imported/domestic)                         2*300
a/    Fall back alternatives which need to be prepared in the event that
geothermal resources cannot be committed on time.
Economic Rate of Return
4.04     The interial economic rate of return (IERR) was computed for the
entire (1989-2000) investment program based on direct benefits measured in
terms of incremental sales revenue and the incremental costs of resource
development, power generation and transmission. The incremental fuel costs
were calculated by a computer simulation of the system operation under the
period of study. The IERR is estimated at 17Z. Annex 4.3 shows details of
this calculation. The actual economic benefit to the economy will be
substantially higher due to the existence of consumers' surplus.
4.05     Aside from the overall development plan, the sector loan includes
rehabilitation costs of certain oil-fired stations. The economic viability of



- 39 -
rehabilitation options was assessed by comparing the net discounted costs of
operation of the various rehabilitation proposals against (a) the option of
not rehabilitating the plant, and (b) the option of installing a new unit.
The results of this analysis (Annex 4.4) indicate that: (a) the levelized cost
of operating a rehabilitated Rockwell plant is US¢5.1/kWh, compared with
US04.8/kWh for a new oil-fired power station, (b) a two-stage rehabilitation
of Sucat Power Station would have a levelized cost of US¢3.8/kWh, and (c) the
levelized cost of Bataan and Manila plants, after essential repairs, will be
about US03.3/KWh. The rehabilitation program to be funded by the sector loan
includes the Sucat and diesel plants.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.06     The least-cost development plan is based on a set of assumptions
regarding the load forecast, fuel costs and development costs of geothermal
resources. A series of additional studies have been conducted to examine the
effect of varying these assumptions on the development plan and its
corresponding rate of return. .he base-case load forecast is predicated on
NEDA's projection of a GDP growth rate of 5.82 p.a. in 1988-92, and 6.3Z for
1993-2010. These projections are viewed by NPC to be on the low side. Thus a
'high scenario' of load growth was developed based on a GDP growth rate of
7.52 p.a. for 1989-2000. In the event the economic growth was even slower
than in the base case, a 'low scenario' load forecast was also developed based
on a GDP growth rate of 5.22 p.a. for 1989-2000.  Under the high-growth
scenario, an additional 300 MW of gas turbine capacity is needed in the near
term, and a 300 MW coal plant should be added for commissioning in 1994.
Under the low-growth scenario, the sequence and composition of the program
will not change but the commissioning time of the Tongonan plant and imported
coal units would be delayed by one year. These variations indicate that
projects included in the time-slice, 1989-93, under the proposed project will
remain in the least cost development plan and should be implemented even if
the economy grows at a rate lower than the present projections.
4.07     The preponderance of geothermal energy in the system generation mix
means that overall system development and operational costs will be sensitive
to the actual costs of geothermal development. The sensitivity analyses
indicate that a variation of 252 in geothermal well costs results in a 4.52
difference (US$200 million) in overall system development costs. An increase
in geothermal costs leads to a slight change in the Luzon geothermal
development sequence, and a one-year delay in Tongonan implementation, but
there is no change in the amount of imported coal capacity required, even if
geothermal steam costs increase by up to 502. Also, there is no substantive
change in the overall installed capacity mix if higher escalation rates are
applied to the price of imported coal, although there is some rearrangement in
the Luzon geothermal sequence and Tongonan is brought forward by one or two
years, depending on the escalation rate assumed for imported coal.



- 40 -
B. Risks
4.08     The project provides for development of 610 MW of geothermal
resources, 1.650 MW of power generating capacity and substantial expansions in
transmission and distribution systems during 1989-93. The physical risk in
the achievement of this capacity is small, limited to the low probability that
the steam reserves in the Luzon fields to be commissioned during this period
would be smaller, after field appraisal, than presently estimated on the basis
of available geoscientific data. However, there are two areas of concern
regarding the implementation and disbursement of the loans. First, there is
an overall concern with regard to the implementation capability of various
agencies since most of these agencies have not had significant investment
projects during the last five years; this risk has been minimized by careful
preparation of implementation schedules, formation of the PIC and preparation
of a plan for increased duration and frequency of project supervision by the
Bank. Second, there is some uncertainty with regard to the availability of
other sources of financing and therefore with regard to the disbursement
schedule of the loan. By design, the proposed mode of operation provides thlr.
for certain items the beneficiaries may search for other sources of financing
while minimizing the cost by using ICB. As a result, the Bank loans may be
disbursed more slowly or faster than scheduled depending on the availability
of other financing sources.



- 41 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government, NPC
and PNOC that the Government's statement of policy and corresponding action
plans will be implemented according to a schedule agreed with the Bank (para.
3.02).
5.02     During negotiations, agreement was reached with PNOC that:
(a) it will, by November 15 of each year, prepare and review with the
Bank its investment plan for the forthcoming year and the following
four years (para. 3.05);
(b) PNOC-EDC will, after completion of the delineation work at each
geothermal site, prepare a resource assessment and development
strategy study, with the assistance of an independent international
consulting organization, acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.08);
(c) PETRON will seek the assistance of an independent, international
consulting organization to prepare a technical and supervision plan
for implementation of the petroleum component of the sector project
(para. 3.09);
(d) it will prepare by June 30, 1990 a detailed institutional development
program elaborating on the outlines agreed upon during appraisal.
The training program and its implementation will be reviewed with the
Bank (para. 3.10);
(e) it will provide the Bank with an audited financial statement together
with certification within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
This report will include statements concerning (i) the holding
company, (ii) the holding company consolidated with all subsidiaries,
and (iii) all subsidiaries (para. 2.08); and
(f) in order to ensure that PNOC-EDC and PETRON each continue to remain
financially robust:
(i)    PNOC-EDC and PETRON will maintain a debt/equity ratio of not
more than 70:30 and a current ratio of not less than 1.0; and
incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its net
revenues after expenditures, taxes, and dividends shall be at
least 1.25 times its projected debt service requirements
(para. 2.13); and
(ii)    PNOC will take all actions required to enable PNOC-EDC and
PETRON to meet these and other obligations under its Loan
Agreement with the Bank, including providing PNOC-EDC and
PETRON with share capital and inter-company loans as necessary
and enabling PNOC-EDC and PETRON to use other means as are
available to raise counterpart funds (para. 2.13).



- 42 -
5.03     During negotiations, agreement was reached with NPC that:
(a) it will, by November 15 of each year, prepare and review with the
Bank its investment plan for the forthcoming year and for the
following four years (para. 3.11);
kb) it will, by December 31, 1990, implement the first phase of a plan to
introduce LRMC-based tariffs by correcting the misallocations between
the capacity and the energy charges from 1:99 to 30:70 and by the
same date prepare and discuss with the Bank an action plan for
subsequent corrections (para. 3.11);
(c) it will prepare by June 30, 1990 a training program for its staff in
engineering, operations and maintenance. The training program and
its implementation will be reviewed with the Bank (para. 3.13);
(d) it will (i) continue to maintain its annual operating revenues at
levels sufficient to realize, after meeting operating costs
(including depreciation) and taxes, an 8Z rate of return on average
revalued net fixed assets in operation; and (ii) furnish to the Bank,
by June 30 of each year, an audited financial statement for the
previous year, together with a certificate and long-form report
prepared by acceptable audito.s (para. 2.17); and
(e) it will incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its
net revenues, after expenditures for each year during the term of the
debt to be incurred, shall be at least 1.3 times its projected debt
service requirement (para. 2.19).
5.04     Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between PNOC and both PNOC-EDC
and PETRON would be conditions of effectiveness (para. 3.23) for all three
lcans. Establishment of a Project Implementation Committee (para. 3.27) is
also a condition of effectiveness for the three loans.
Recommendation
5.05     Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for three Bank loans totalling US$390 million
equivalent to NPC (US$200 million), PNOC (US$150 million) and the Government
of the Philippines (US$40 million). The loans to NPC and PNOC would be
guaranteed by the Republic of the Philippines. All three loans would be for a
term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.



'Eli  ~~~~  6  S  6    Eli          ill          S         40        II        (55       0 ~~~~~~~~~~~ 0    0           0          0          6                     6        66                                                            N,pqee
6  6  6  6          6            6         6         6         6         6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0   0          6          0          0          6               6               6         Ig         :                   suiiw:
*               *         g          I        :U             is           0         6         S                                                  64         6                     66                                        I                  * i6 s           "m
s.gi           (        6                    6         :.st     Sit                6                   6         S                   6         0          6          lS           1        A          fit                                                    "d-  6ituluPon l
Ia *U'                   6        4S         6         :0 '           40           6                   6         S 0                           S          60                      M's4          I    fi         I          S         Ig                              Ind-vmI
6               *i         S                      i          ii                                                             10        I          Zs         Wi         SIt        S          1t        It         6         Ig30111
14  'g  *  *  :s  su       u            a         *         0         6         0         6         6          6          6          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   It  a   I          6           g
:6.'~ ~~ ~ ~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~ 0                                                               I   g  g  61 6       6 60 I                                                          9 6  U  Si  S                       I 6gemu~*i5ioJS.I
(1'  s  6         6          6         :lI~     ~    ~~~~s "IS     6         6                                       II        I          S          its        6          5                    I65                                           Iq5SSi4
'i         '*          6         6          5          A             V                                                                1                            oi          46        0    0    5                                     I 6                          G-:he)
~j  *   S         6    ~    6         :u              U            S         S         S         6        S         6         6           S                     6t         6o         6t        oillst'e
'LI  .601  0      6        16         :31            El "I6so     I                   6         S         6         6         S          6          6          tit         1II1                                                                    1 6  6   :
in1        Ijo        6         6          6        55  Al                                 6         6 oil  6I                                6         6                                 4  6 "6                                     6                            . Iam
*"                    I .                 I           q#--li--Ia--91bS8
t1i'll1  '69            I 6                     6        :65(           656          6         *-        if        lit       I          lI                  00 I       It' I      thE'       U11,       161        ilL       6          :&         :    n.   814o  ijiSn          is
!l16)      :1111       5         6        :5         I@             6            I                   0         a         6         0         S          0                                                                                                   I "A6 on0  6  :p  
!4IWI       AMW         6         5        :I         I6                          6         0                   6         6         0         *          0          *          *          6          6         *          6          :6
'166       :1on'?1   10          Ill       I           i6           IS6          5         a         0         0         I         0         S              a                            S          6         6                       l eit    :IiP.a,.iIiOS3l1
4I15         S        SpW I)  590651)    6            540*1??      '(WO I1                 (0)      lOS       515        6         61l       0         lo)        (50g,1 i lE           5)         55?       (oP 6i                 5 lLoll S)                 loaf 5S
.5  6  0     6          5        :5             S           ~     ~ ~       ~ ~      ~ ~       ~~~~~0  o        o        e          a          a          6          S          6         a          6          :6     
I,i~~S  5 6   *         6       ~ :         :49161         Kg S         S         to        lo,       0         lit       0il       0          oil.       "al        #4iLl       £14        61       K565       S1Will       S                   
*  i  0 : *     6St    551 I         a           MEl6        (I            6        1         lii       Ioi      isa'       too       ..         SW)          i        tIm')       It         I1       4vi1)        51'6     : s'i              1U     A*5311 1£InU:
5 5  6     6       5 6         :St~~~Io)      "I           0                  f ill      £01      WIl    511                     foio)       Lw        6401        6*         Go       lISP       65)        fill)       :                  gom  vilses
i~~p  :5  6        6        56   ~~~~~ :4450         (£IV)         6         0         0        to)        a         a         6         low)       4oh)       Sn?)        6           6        46)        6          :6         :ma
S  6     6        :s        ~~~~~:SsIsI    (OiLS         I         (0)       0         l        (5 IV I    SOS      SOS        Still      1S61        igois       I          I         61                   :65                                indi:
iti  :*            6         6          6          INst         III          6         6         I         li        0         lit       0          0          lot         101       5                                OS        5(         S                      limAS
I        OK' I    9116 I     6 I       :t             6            5         0         0                                                  0                                                                            io        :       s.o.inPI
~~  Sin~~O      :          I  SU1MI    i        .ise'14    WI                         i 54                                                                                                                           I
gg61 IOJ aauUjUg £w.au3j
133CONId MIO133S ADIWNi
S3NIJddVIHd
T1T Xi1NNV



- 44 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR LOAN
Statement of Policy
I. INTRODUCTION
The Philippines' program of economic recovery has resulted in a growth
rate of 6.7% between 1987 and 1988 with a promising outlook for continued
progress. The resurgent economy has placed increased demands on the energy
sector (which grew by 8.8% last year) for adequate, timely and reliable
supplies of fuels and electricity.  The situation of rising energy demand
combined with the limited availability of low-cost indigenous energy supplies
emphasizes the need for a well-planned, coordinated and diverse program of
energy systems expansion if supply shortages and mismatches are not to
inhibit further development. At the same time, upward trends of air and
water pollution levels are evident, specially with recent occurrence of the
red tide which claimed some lives and brought substantial losses to the
fishing industry in particular.  There is also an ongoing concern to bring
power supply to the other half of the population not presently connected to
central station electricity.
Some well-developed energy supply institutions currently exist in the
Philippines to meet these challenges, and needed economic and environmental-
regulatory oversight organizations are in place; although in many instances
they are  ill-equipped and staff training is thin.    Furthermore,  the
government recently constituted the energy Coordinating Council (ECC) with
the Office of Energy Affairs (OEA) as its technical support and secretariat
to coordinate energy planning among agencies and to integrate ongoing
oversight activities. What is needed is adequate equipment and training for
personnel, particularly below top management levels.
Energy projects have complex linkages and implications on the economy
and within the sector itself. The viability of each discrete project cannot
ideally be determined in isolation with the rest of the program. Therefore,
the highest priority has been placed upon a program of balanced and diverse
expansion of energy supplies in an environmentally sound way. Towards this
end, the following policies are receiving the greatest attention by the
government.
A.    Provide comprehensive energy system planning and expansion for
all energy sources to support conservation, environmental
planning, and natural resource management policies.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 9
B.    Emphasize adequate dive-:se sources of energy supply, relying to
the greatest practicable extent on the development of domestic
services and support, to aim for consistency of quantity, quality
and cost.
C.    Develop energy prices to truly reflect existing competitive
market situations.
D.    Share the economic and environmental benefits and cost of energy
system development as equitably as possible.
Many detailed steps are required to carry out these policies, but those
needed actions can be summarized under the following broad categories:
A.    Strengthen the government agencies charged with coordinated
planning of energy system development and with the economic and
environmental regulation and conservation of energy, and perform
studies necessary for planning.
B.    Establish efficient, market-based prices for all energy supplies,
both to final customers and between primary and intermediate
sources, including through privatization where effective.
C.    Develop environmental baseline assessments of existing ambient
air and water quality in areas of high energy use or of potential
future development, and implement a systematic program of regular
monitoring and enforcement.
D.    Broaden the base and diversity of energy supplies by:
1.    Developing the country's geothermal resources base.
2.    Developing coal supply alternatives and transfer, handling
and storage facilities for both imported and domestic
sources.
3.    Continuing assessment and development of hydro resources.
4.    Constructing    electric    transmission    links    and
interconnections.
5.    Sponsoring  research  and  development  activities  on
decentralized renewable sources of supply.



- 46 -
ANNEX31
Page 3 of 9
E.    Develop required electricity generation capacity with emphasis
placed in decreasing order upon the following sources:
1.    Geothermal
2.    Coal (both imported and domestic)
3.    Gas turbines, only as required to meet pressing capacity
shortages.
and by rehabilitating existing power plants to maintain rated
capacity.
F.    Continue efforts designed to increase utilization efficiency to
reduce electrical system losses and theft of power and to provide
energy to isolated areas.
G.    Encourage  private  sector  participation  in  energy  supply
development including the cogeneration of electricity to promote
competition.
II. PROGRAM OF ACTION
A.    Institutional Structure and Strengthening.
The two government-owned energy supply corporations,
namely: the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), for
geothermal oil and some coal supplies, and .he National Power
Corporation (NPC) for bulk electric power supply, are well-
established. However, the coordination of their activities with
those of other energy suppliers through the recently-formed ECC
has placed an immense new burden on OEA, who acts as staff to the
ECC. OEA's energy database must be grea-ly improved and energy
information system developed. OEA must establish capability in
power systems planning and in regional energy demand forecasting.
Planning studies are required on petroleum cost structures and
transfer pricing and on a fuel contingency plan for the
Philippines, and assessments of the potential use of non-
conventional energy resources should be made.   The possible
development of a geothermal resource/environmental management
model is also to be considered.
Other energy supply institutions requiring evaluation and
assistance are the rural electric cooperatives (RECs) with their
high energy losses, and a decision must be reached on the
ownership of the national coal logistic system, its further
development and mode of operation. Furthermore, the



- 47 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 4 of 9
effectiveness of operation and maintenance procedures of both
RECs and the National Electrification Administration (NEA), who
is charged with coordinating their activities, needs improvement,
as does NPC's.
There is an existing but incomplete coal handling and
blending facility in Luzon which is intended primarily to serve
the requirements of non-power users of coal in the island.
Although there has been a general consensus that the facility
must be completed, the matter of its ownership and subsequent
operation would have to be settled by the government.
It is very likely that the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB)
will be charged with the substantial added burden of regulating
NPC's wholesale and retail rates and the rates charge by RECs,
in addition to their existing responsibility of regulating the
electric rates charged by private utilities. To perform these
functions effectively, ERB's staff will have to establish an
adequate data base and a management information system to perform
necessary audits and effective rate reviews.
The Environmental Management Bureau has the responsibility
for: 1) developing baseline studies of air, water and noise
quality levels in isolated areas and in complex air- and water-
sheds, 2) analyzing Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and
3)   assessing compliance with  governmental  requirements.
However, its staff sorely lacks the equipment and training to
undertake these tasks. In a phased program of strengthening, a
training center and laboratory will be established.   After a
consultant's evaluation, fixed baseline monitoring stations will
be set up in areas of future energy development and in Metro
Manila. The EMB will enhance its capability in field compliance
monitoring after which a re-evaluation will be made on the
desirability of extending its baseline monitoring capabilities
and its regional laboratories for nationwide analysis.   Experts
at universities in the Philippines and local suppliers of testing
and monitoring equipment will be used to the greatest extent
possible in order to strengthen local expertise and sources of
supply.
B.    Establishment of Consistent, Efficient Energy Prices
Regulated electricity prices are currently based upon asset
values that are revised annually.  In many instances adequate
revenues are collected from all customers to reflect long-run
marginal costs; what is needed in most instances is the
restructuring of tariffs to reflect economic reality. This is
the responsibility that will likely be assumed by ERB for utility
prices, and OEA will also pursue long-run marginal cost pricing
in a planning context. Additionally, NPC is evaluating its cost



- 48 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 5 of 9
structure in order to propose LRMC-based wholesale electricity
prices.
Steam prices from geothermal sources would b3 based upon
an avoided cost standard and the government's royalty formula
will be re-evaluated to encourage the economic development of
geothermal resources. The institutional strengthening planned
for the government agencies should greatly improve their ability
to monitor and adjust prices to meet changing cost conditions.
Increased privatization should offer market tests of the
reasonableness of regulated prices.   OEA will tabulate and
compare the consequer-es of prices existing across all energy
sectors with a particuiar view toward identifying anomalies that
may arise among various forms of energy supply and between
domestic and foreign sources.   Finally, ERB will review the
structure and operation of the fuel adjustment, clause as it
affects the pricing and efficiency of electricity supplies.
C.    Environmental Baseline Assessments and Compliance Monitoring.
The best currently available baseline assessments of
environmental quality in the Metro Manila region were estimated
in  the  early  1980's  from  fuel  consumption  data.    Active
government ambient air- and water-quality monitoring stopped in
1985 due to failure of equipment that has not yet been replaced.
Both PNOC and NPC have adequate staff and equipment to
undertake baseline assessments in the usually isolated regions
of planned expansion of energy supply facilities.   They also
continue to monitor ambient conditions through the construction
and operation phase, reporting results to EMB.  Nevertheless,
EMB should develop the capability of undertaking independent
checks.   Furthermore,  EMB's abilities must be substantially
enhanced to assess and track conditions in entire air- and water-
sheds and estuaries that are affected by complex, multiple
sources, like in Metro Manila.   Finally, with the increased
development of the nation's geothermal energy sources, increased
attention should be devoted to the consequences of hydrogen
sulfide emissions. And, as increased numbers of transmission
lines are erected to interconnect the nation's generation
sources, the possible ecological consequences of right-of-way
clearings needs to be explored.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 6 of 9
D.    Diversified Reliable Supplies of Energy
Electricity as a delivered form of energy has natural
diversification advantages since it can be generated from a
variety of primary sources. Thus, efforts that will reduce the
nation's reliance on oil-fired generation (currently 44X of the
total) most of which is imported will be accelerated.   Many
indigenous sources of primary energy are either of poor quality
or expensive: domestic coal, although low in sulfur content,
generally has low heating values and is costly to extract;
hydropower sources are remote requiring expensive transmission
lines which opens the hinterlands to agricultural settlement and
consequent deforestation. The focus of the program to enhance
the security of energy supply would be the economic exploitation
of substantial  geothermal  resources.    With  total  probable
geothermal reserves estimated at 4,400 megawatts  (MW),  the
planned development of 630 MW, in addition to 894 MW of
geothermal currently available, implies that over 201 of the
Philippines' electricity supply is planned to be provided from
geothermal sources by 1993/1994.
PNOC does not plan to explore or develop additional
Philippine coal reserves over the remainder of the century
because of likely privatization. Mining development operations
in progress, however, will be completed where economical.
Furthermore, the use of imported coal (again of low sulfur
content) will be sustained in many industrial operations and
expanded to further diversify the sources of electricity supply.
In addition to expanding the use of coal in future generation
facilities, steps will be undertaken to resolve the institutional
structure of the national coal logistics system. Subsequently,
the completion of the coal logistic facility at Sta. Rita,
Batangas near Manila will be considered, since that terminal will
unload deep-draft vessels for importing coal, and it could blend
coal of various qualities, including from domestic sources, to
ensure consistency of supply.  Thus the viability of domestic
coal mines might be sustained under varying market conditions.
In order to exploit effectively the diversity of primary
energy sources that are inherent in these actions, the nation's
electricity interconnections will have to be strengthened
substantially.   While the construction of transmission lines
connecting Leyte with Luzon are essential for the delivery of
Tongonan   geothermal-generated   electricity   to   markets,
interconnections with other islands will be undertaken to
diversify supply sources. With respect to the Visayas grids,
interconnections among them would enable the sub-grids with high
cost supplies (e.g. Bohol which is diesel-based) to access lower-
cost supplies from other grids (e.g. Southern Negros which is
geothermal based).



- 50 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 7 of 9
Finally, steps to develop and utilize local energy supplies
based upon renewable energy sources like solar and biomass
systems will be explored, particularly with respect to remote
rural areas of the country. These alternative methods not only
hold the prospect of diversifying supplies based upon sustainable
indigenous sources, they also relieve the necessity of costly
electric line construction to reach remote areas.
E.    Electricity Generation Capacity Expansion
Because of the resumption of economic growth in the
Philippines after 1986, the demand for electricity also regained
its historic upward trend following a period of stagnation in
1984-86. The projected 8X load growth rate through 1990 followed
by a 7.51 annual load growth rates through 1995, suggest a need
for 1,000 megawatts of additional electricity generation capacity
by 1993. NPC will place primary emphasis upon the development
of geothermal-based generation and the further exploitation of
domestic coal sources. Thus, in addition to 170 MW of geothermal
power that is expected to be developed in Bacon-Manito in 1991-
92, plus numerous other smaller sources to be exploited by 20 MW
generation modules, NPC is adding a 300-MW, second coal-fired
plant at Calaca that will be equipped to burn both domestic low-
BTU and imported high-BTU fuels.   However, because of urgent
capacity needs, a total of 700-MW of gas turbine capacity will
also be added over the period 1989-1991. The rehabilitation of
the oil-fired units at Sucat will also be pursued in order to
regain theii design capacity.
Nevertheless, the addition of geothermal and coal capacity
diversify further the nation's sources of electricity supply away
from oil and toward geothermal and coal. This mix of fuels also
follows a least-cost generation expansion plan, a capacity
development process that will be updated periodically and used
to plan new facilities.
Furthermore, in order to effect the efficiency incentives
provided by competitive market, the 200-MW gas turbine of the
700 MW capacity mentioned above will be brought on-line under a
build-operate-transfer (BOT) arrangement, and other moves toward
privatization will be attempted in the future.
F.    Loss Reduction and Conservation
Systematic programs are being implemented to reduce
electric system losses, including the curtailment of the
estimated 10X unmetered use of power.   This has substantial
equity implications, since it is estimated that a large portion
of this diverted power is used by industrial and commercial
customers. Thus, substantial encouragement Is being provided to



- 51 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 8 of 9
distribution utilities to improve their inspections of services
and meters. To maximize their effectiveness, these activities
require a coordinated, multi-agency approach as effected through
the ECC and OEA.
ERB is currently mandated to inspect every electric service
bi-annually for error or tampering, and steps are being taken to
enhance the agency's ability to comply with this requirement.
In setting prospective rates, ERB is invoking procedures that
encourage electricity distribution companies to reduce system
losses and pilferage by allowing them to share in the short-term
benefits of those reduced losses. Current evidence suggest that
these   incentives   have   reduced   distribution   losses   by
approximately 2% per year over the past two years. The NEA who
represents the RECs on the national level is also encouraging
loss reduction programs by its member cooperatives.
The largest motivation for encouraging the widespread
adoption of conservation measures and for developing cogeneration
is the establishment of proper prices that reflect competitive
market values.   This process is underway with NPC's proposed
tariff rationalization study and the ERB's long-run marginal cost
analysis. Furthermore, OEA is promoting informational programs
on conservation. As a means to provide energy sources to those
areas which are too expensive to reach via centralized energy
distribution facilities, including NPC's transmission grids, OEA
has initiated the development of small-scale, isolated energy
sources based upon nonconventional renewable resources. While
NEA  plans  a  modest  extension  of  the  RECs'  distribution
facilities, the successful development of nonconventional energy
sources like solar and biomass as being explored by OEA, also
have the potential for bringing energy to isolated areas
economically. Meanwhile, the major portion of NEA's efforts will
focus on rehabilitating existing distribution systems, thereby
reducing losses and increasing reliability of service.
G.    Privatization and Cogeneration
Government will examine its regulations, institutional
impediments and differential tax, import duty and royalty
treatment among different institutional suppliers in energy
markets and then evaluate their potential influence on
privatization.   In those markets where competition could be
effective, che inhibiting effect of government policies will be
assessed, since not only does privatization provide market test
of the efficiency of government-owned agencies and of economic
regulation, it can reduce the need for government financing.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 9 of 9
Cogeneration of electricity in particular may be one case
where the absence of import duties on equipment used by NPC, plus
differential tax treatment, may inhibit private development.
Nevertheless, NPC will pursue the privatization of generation
facility construction, to the extent practicable, through BOT
arrangements.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 1 *f 8
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Schedule of Policy Actions
Policy Objectives                         Actions Already Taken                                   Actions to be Taken
A. AdoptTon of a least-cost develop-  (a)  Several geothermal sites, Including Bacon-         (a)  Delineation work at each site to be concluded by
mnt strategy for the enrgy              Manito II, Pinatubo and Natib, Bulesn, Del            December 30, 1990; genration capacity and implemin-
sector.                                 Callego and Caguo, have been introduced and           tation plans to be finalized by June 30, 1991.
included in the proposed loan
- Increase reliance on geother-
mal resources                  (b)  Technical and economic viability of develop-    (b)  Governmnt decision on the security aspect of the
ing Leyte geotherml resources and intercon-          interconnection expected by June 30, 1990.
-   Limit the expansion of domes-       nection with Luzon were investigated and              Government decision to implement the project
tic coal by the public sector       confirmd in a study completed Dec_mber 1989           expectedby December 31, 1900.
and use imported coal which
is a more economical option    (c)  Government decided in Decmber 1988, not to       (c)  None.
proceed with construction by NPC of a poer
-   Develop hydro resources only        plant based on Isabela coal
if economically viable.
(d) Government postponed, in December 1988,          (d)  Will review and decide about new coal development
plans to develop Semirara coal mine; NPC             when and if dometic coal prices becom  competitive
designed a forthcoming plant to u"e imported         with the international coal prices.
coal
(e) Governmnt decided in December 1988, to           (e)  NPC pians to review by December 31, 1991 the cost
postpone plans to develop the San Roque              of construction of the San Roque hydro plant
hydro power plant, pending re-evoluation of
the cost
(f) Government decided in Decmber 1988 to            (f)  Review of the cost of hydro candidates to be comple-
exclude all major hydro projects from the            ted by Dcember 1990; Governmnt decision on hydro
plan and instructed a review of the cost.            projects expected thereafter.
S. Restructuring of Energy Prices
for Efficient Development and Use
of Energy.
(a) Rationalize electricity        (a) The NPC study on long-run-mrginal cost            (a)  Government plans to implement the first photso of
tariff to reflect the cost of       pricing was prepared in July 1989.                    adjustmnt by December 31, 190 and preptre by the
supply to various customer                                                                so  date a plan for subsequent adjustments.
clatsss.
(b) Permit competition between     (b)  The gap between d_estic and international        (b)  Government plane to continue to allow competition
dometic and imported coal.          coal prices has narrowed from about COX to            between domestic and imported coal.
about 2S1.
(c) Set the geotherms a  ste       (c) NWC and PNOC agred in July 1988 on a sttea        (c) PNOC and WNC are expected to adopt a stem price,
price at the avoided cost of        price equivalent to avoided cost for the              based on avoided costs, for other ime_diate fields
the substitute fuel.                Bacon-Manito field.                                   on Luzon before June 30, 1990 and a stema price for
Leyte fields before June 30, 1991.
(d) Link explicitly the ex-        (d)  The Government decided in December 1988 to       (d)  None.
refinery petroleum prices           restore the policy of linking the net backs
with Singapore posted prices,       to oil companies on petroleum  products sales
to Singapore posted prices.



ANNEX 3.2
PagFe 2 of 3
Policy Objectives                          Actions Alredy Taken                                     Actions to be Taken
C. Encoure  Private Sector Partici-  (a)  Executive Order No. 216 in 1987 authorized           (a)  WC plans to enter into contracts with private
pation in the Energy Sector              private sector participation; Rules and               sector by December 1990, to build up to 700 W coal
Reulations were prepared and announced in             fired poser plants; WC will review proposals from
-   Facilitate private sector            April 196; NPC entered in November 198,               private sector for cogenration projets.
participation in power gene-         into a Build, Own and Oparate and Transfer
ration                               (BOOT) contract with private sector to build
a 200 MW power plant; WC invited expression
-   Resolve tho stem royalty             of interest for other BOO or BOOT contracts
issue to encourage private          for up to 700 MW power plant.
sector participation in 9go-
thermal exploration             (b) Government adopted in October 1988, a             (b)  Government plans to introduce legislation by
decision to allow a 4-year royalty deferment          December 1990 for a royalty holiday applicable to
-   Invite private parties to            initially applicable to PNOC for new fields           both public and private sector.
enter into joint venture with        between 1989-1992.
PNOC to develop and utilize
geothermal resources            (c)  Government has followd this royalty prin.-       (c)  None.
ciple for currently operating geothermal
Sell certain public sector           fieldu of PNOC.
companies to the private
sector.                        (d) PNOC decided in July 1989 to pursue the            (d)  PNOC to prepare the procedures and issue
option of privete sector participation in             invitations before Juno 30, 19O.
its geothermal activities. 
(e)  Government directed in 1988 PNOC to sell a       (e) PNOC will continue to look for private sector
number of it. subsidiaries, particularly the          interest in the coal mining operations.
coal companies, to the private sector.
D. Strengthening Energy Planning,       (a) Formd in September 1988 a high level Energy    (a)  None.
Management and Coordination              Coordination Council and doslgnated the
Office of Energy Affairs as the Secretriat.
-  Establish a coordinating
mchinery at the sectoral        (b)  A progrm of upgrading OEA's capability was       (b)  Developmnt of an energy sector database by
level                               prepared In July 1989 and Included in the              December 81, 1990; carrying out studies on vartious
proposed loan.                                        aspects of energy planning by December 31, 1992.
-Consolidate the regulotory
aspects of the sector           (c)  Covernmnt formd the Energy Regulatory            (c)  None.
Board in 1987 to consolidate the regulatory
-  Upgrade the technical capabi-         aspects of the enrgy sector.
lities of the coordinatory
and rogulatory bodies.          (d)  A program of upgrading ERG was prepared in       (d)  An organizational review of ERB will be completed
July 1989 and Included in the proposed                by Dcemboer 31, 1990; training of ERB stff will be
sector loan.                                          completed by Deceber 81, 1991; modernization of
toeting equipments *il be completed by December
81,1992.



ANNEX 3.2
Page-  3 of 3
Policy Objectives                          Actions Already Taken                                    Actions to be Taken
E.  Strengthening the Environmental    (a)  Consolidated the monitoring system by              (a)  None.
Monitoring of Energy Sector              creition of tho EMS in 1987.
-   Consolidate the environmental  (b)  An upgrading program for EMS was prepured in    (b)  Equip and train tho EIB staff In Luzon by June 30,
monitoring system                    July 1989 and included in the proposed loan            1991; Equip and train EMB staff in other regional
for financing.                                        offices by December 31, 19M9; Establish baseline
-   Upgrade EMB's technical                                                                     sampling stations in e lective regions by Deceber
capability                                                                                 31, 1992.
-   Ensure assessment and corn-    (c)  Covernment advised ECC in July 1989 to             (c)  None.
pliance with the requirements       ensure compliance with these policy
of EMB at an early stage of          objectives.
project preparation and
decision making.
DENR = Department of Environment and Natural Resources.                                                                                                        n
OEA = Office of Energy Affairs.
WC  = National Power Corporation.
PNOC = Philippine Nationol Oil Company.
ERB = Energy Regulatory Board.
EMS = Environmental Manag_ment Burau.
ECC = Energy Coordinating Council.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3.3
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
PNOC-EDC Geothermal Development Schedule
Completion of   Completion of
Capacity         Target        Resource        Development
MW       Commissioning    Assessment         Strategy
Bacman II                40           1992          Dec. 1988        Apr. 1989
Pinatubo                 60           1993          Dec. 1989        Apr. 1990
Natib                    60           1993          Dec. 1989        Apr. 1990
Bulusan                  60           1994          Dec. 1990        Apr. 1991
Del Gallego             120           1994          June 1990        Oct. 1990
Cagua                    40           1994          June 1990        Oct. 1990
Manbucal                 40           1994           June 1991       Oct. 1991



PHILIPPINES
___________
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
_____________________
NPC - DETAILS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
-----------------------------------
I - GENERATION
COST
COMPONENT                  LOCATION  CAPACITY   COMPLETION           (US2 Million)          FINANCING STATUS
(MI)       (Year)     Local  For-ign   Total
THERMAL (COAL)
Calaca II               Luton     300              1993      28.6    303.0   381.8       A1-OECF/Japan
Calaca III              Luzon     300              1993      23.7    209.4    233.1      C
GEOTHERMAL
Bacon Manito I          Luzon      110 (2x6)       19m       14.6     74.7      89.2     Al-Italy
Mak-Ban 7               Luton      60 (3x20)       1992       8.6     48.1      56.6     A3/B (a)
MHibararn               Luton      20              1992       3.2     16.4      19.6     A3/B (a)
Pinatubo/Nntib          Luzon      120 (8x20)      1993      24.3    107.8    131.6      A3/B
Bacon Manito II         Luzon      40 (2x20)       1992       6.2     32.8      39.0     A8/B (a)
Pnlimpinon II           Vieayaa    60 (4x20)       1992      18.6     66.7      80.2     AS/B
COMIUSTION TURBINE
Malaya A Batean         Luton     210 (90+120      1990       3.0     62.8     66.8      Al-Frane /Japan
Mitsui (1-8)            Luzon      90 (3x30)       1990       1.6     41.3     42.9      A2
Nop  oll                Luzon     200 (2x100)      1990       3.3     76.1      79.4     A2-BOT
Undefined               Luzon     200              1992       3.0     62.8     65.8      C (e)
Axwn Brown Boveri       Vio ycn    66              1990       1.6     32.2     83.6      A2
Mitsui (4-6)            Vigayaa    60 (2x3O)       1990      0.7      27.6     28.2      A2
John Brown (1-S)        Mindiano  150 (Sx&O)       1991      5.6      60.0     66.6      A2
REHABILITATION-THERMAL (OIL)
Sucat 1 A 4             Luzon     460              1990      10.1    106.7    116.6      Al-Exiwfbnk Japan
Sucat 2 A 8             Luzon     400              1991       5.6    109.4    114.9      C (a)
REHABILITATION DIESEL
Various I               Visayan    (7)             1990      2.2       4.7      6.9      Al-French Protocol
Various II              Viayes,  (29)              1992      6.S      41.6     4.8       C (a)
mindana.                         -------  --- -       -------
TOTAL GENERATION (BASE COST)       165.6   1482.7   1848.2
OF VHICH:                        *____=    -m: 
FINANCED                          71.1    788.5   869.6                     
NOT FINANCED
BASE COST                       94.4    094.2    768.6 8
PNYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (7X)      6.6      46.6     66.2
PRICE CONTINGENCIES             23.3      69.4    112.7
SUBTOTAL                       124.8    832.2    966.5                                                      0'
TOTAL (INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES)   196.4   1620.7   1816.1
==5 ==



PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
_____________________
NPC - DETAILS OF PROJECT COMBPQENTS
-----------------------------------
II - TRANSmISSICN
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__-----------------------------
LEWNTH A                       COST
COMPONENT                 LOCATION   CIRCUIT  COMPLETION          (USS Million)         FINANCING STATUS
(km)       (Year)    Local  Foreign    Total
600 kV
Son Jose-Kalayaan      Luzon          82/DC      1991     18.2    61.1    69.8    A-OECF-Japan
230 kV
Balintaowak-San Jose    Luzon         21/DC      1991      3.6      8.8     10.3    A-IBRD-Ln 2969-PH
Bacman-Daraga          Luzon          43/DC      1992      2.3      4.9      7.2    A-IBRD-Ln 2969-PH
Calaca-Binan-Sucat     Luzon       78/DC-SC      1992      6.8      7.5    13.3    A-IBRD-Ln 2969-PH
MUk-Ban Tie            Luzon         0.5/SC      1993      0.1      0.1      0.2    B-C.)
Botong-Bacuan          Luzon         3.5/DC      1993      0.2      0.2      0.4    B-(*)
Cnuwyun-Botong         Luzon         1.8/DC      1993      0.1      0.1      0.2    B-(.)
Pinatubo-M.xico        Luzon          8S/DC      1993      2.8      4.6      7.3    8-(0)
Pinatubo Connection    Luzon          45/DC      1993      1.9      3.1      5.0    B-(W)
Lobo Connection        Luzon          20/DC      1993      0.9      1.4      2.8    B-(.) 
Son Juan-Kalaynan      Luzon         120/DC      1993      4.8      8.4     13.0    B-(.)
Sucat-Bnlintawak       Luzon          34/SC      1993      2.0    21.7    23.7    B-(*)
Spares                                           1993      0.0    84.8    24.8    1-(0)
138 kV
Kabangkalan-Cagayan-
Sipalay              Luzon          82/DC      1992      8.4      7.6    10.9    A-ADD
Kauswagan-Aurors       Luzon          88/SC      1992      2.2      2.8      6.0    A-ADB
Kabacan-Nuling         Luzon          66/SC      1992      1.8      2.3      4.1    A-ADS
New Loon-Bajada        Luzon          15/DC      1992      0.6      0.9      1.5    A-ADS
Amlan-Jilocan-
Liloan-Naga          Visay.s       122/SC      1991      7.4    14.8    22.0    A-OECF Japan
Narro-Puerto Princesa  Visayas        96/SC      1993      1.8      1.4      8.0    B-(*)
Palimpinon Associatod Visayas      89/SC-DC      1992      2.8      3.4      6.2    B-(W)
Aurora-St. Clara-
Ssngali              Mindanao      224/Sc      1993      8.7      8.4    16.1    B-(*)
Tindslo-Oavao-
Gen. Santos          Mindanao      202/Sc      1993      8.1      7.4    18.6    B-(W)
115 kV
San Este-Bantay-Laoag  Luzon         121/SC      1992      2.7      4.3      7.0    A-IBRD Ln-2969-PH
0*
0'h
C W



II - TRANSMISSION
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__-----------------------------
LENGTH &                        COST                FINANCING STATUS
COWONENT                  LOCATION   CIRCUIT   COMPLETION           (US1I Million)
(kr)       (Year)     Local Foreign    Total
69 kV
Bantay-Sto Domingo      Luzon          20/SC      I9m        0.3      0.2      0.6      A-ADS
Viga-Virac-San Andres  Luzon           52/SC      1993       0.7      0.6      1.3      9-(*)
Masbate Transmission   Luzon          116/Sc      1993       1.6      1.3      2.9      9-(W)
Mindoro I              Luzon          267/SC       1998      6.0      3.1      9.1      B-(4)
Maibarars Geo          Luzon           13/SC      1993       0.8      0.6      1.8      B- -)
Boac-Marcopper-
Torrijos             Luzon           67/SC      1993       1.2      0.8     1i8       B-(.)
Now Nabslacat           Luzon       26/SC-DC       1993      0.7      0.8       1.6     B-(.)
Brookh-s Pt.-Narra      Visayes       102/SC       1993      1.2      1.1      2.3      B-C.)
Puerto Princesa-Taytay Visay.s        170/SC       1993      2.0      1.9       3.9     B-(W)
Negros II               Viu-yna       188/SC       1992      2.2      2.1      4.3      A-ADS
C-bu II                Visayss         20/SC      1993       0.2      0.2      0.4      B-(W)
Leyt_-Saar II          Visayns        108/SC      1993       1.3      1.2      2.5      B-()
Bohol II               Visayss         46/SC       1993      0.6      0.5       1.0 l   B-()
Panay II               Vissyas         20/SC       1993      0.2      0.2      0.4      B-Cs)
Leyte (Barge)          Visayes         12/SC      1993       0.1      0.1      0.2      6-(*)
Tacloban (Barge)       Visayas        2.6/SC      1993       0.1      0.1      0.2      B-(0)
Agu. I-Mara.i-Malabang Mindanao        76/SC      1993       1.0      0.9      1.9      B-(W)
Various                Mindanao       373/SC      1993       4.8      4.2      9.0      B-(4)
Sangali-Zeaboonga      Mindanso        27/SC      1993       0.6      0.3      0.9      B-(*)
ISLANDS INTERCONNECTION
_______________________
Mindoro-Luzon (116 kV)    264/SC of which
12.2 km submarine
cable                      1993     65.      27.4      32.7     C-(0)
Cat.aqduane.-Luzon (S9 kV) 93/sc of which
12 km submarine
cabl-                      1993      3.9      8.6      12.6     C-Ce)
Marinduque-Luzon (69 kV)  36/SC of which
24.5 km submarine
cable                     1993       2.2     28.8     80.5
Rehnbilitation of Transmission
Lines and Substations                             1993    112.2      265.    137.5      B-*
TOTAL TRANSMISSION (BASE COST)    226.8    306.9    533.7
OF UHICH :                                   =
FINANCED                          50.7    106.1    166.8                                                   0o 
NOT FINANCED
BASE COST                      176.1    200.8    876.9                                                        x
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (7%)    12.6      14.4     26.9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES             46.2     31.0     77.2
SUBTOTAL                       234.8   246.2    481.0
TOTAL (INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES)   28656    362.3    637.8



* - -
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
NF_ - DETAILS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
III - SUBSTATIONS
t  VOLTAGE                            COST
COMPONENT OR LOCATION   CAPACITY       LEVEL    COMPLETION          (USI Million)          FINANCING STATUS
(WVA) (WMAR)     (xV)       (Year)    Local   Foreign    Total
Sucat              aoo               230/116                 0.2      4.2      4.4      A-(*)-OECF
Dasmarinas         200               280/116       1992      0.9      6.8       7.7     A-IBRD-Ln 2969-PH
Olongapo           100                230/69       1992      1.0      2.2       8.2     A-I3DB-Ln 2969-PH
Lugait              s0                138/69       1992      0.3      1.8       1.9     A-I MD-Ln 2969-PH
Sipalay            100                138/69       1992      0.7      3.6       4.8     A-ADS
Bontay              10                116/89       1992      0.3      1.2       1.6     A-ISRD-Ln 2969-PH
Bayenan (Exp)               7.5           69       1992      0.1      0.3       0.4     A-ADS
Son Carlo  (Exp)            7.6                   1992       0.1      0.3      0.4      A-ADS
Ste. Barbara P. Barge                     69      1992       0.1      0.1      0.2      A-ADS
Amlan (Exp)                              138      1992       0.1      0.6      0.7      A-OECF/Jnpan
Naga (Exp)                               138      1992       0.1      0.6      0.7      A-OECF/Jepan
Banitad (Exp)                15           69      1992       0.1      0.6      0.6      A-OECF/Japan
SCADA                                              1992      6.7     16.0      21.7     A-ADS
14th Power A
Aurora (kxp)                           188      1992       0.2      0.8      1.0      A-ADS                                            °
Abaga (Exp)                            I88      1992       0.2      O.8      2.0      A-ADB
14th Power O
Nuling (Exp)      s0                138/69      1992       0.3      1.4      1.7      A-ADS
Kibove (Exp)                           138      1992       0.1      0.8      0.7    A-ADB
Kabacan Switching                      138      1992       0.3      1.3       1.6     A-ADS
WLZON,
Son Esteban        100               230/116      1993       0.6      2.7      8.2      B-(W)
Sinan              8oo               280/116      1993       1.6      7.5      9.1      S-(0)
Dolores            g00               280/116      1998       1.1      4J       6.4      B-(W)
Ste. Mesa          900               280/116      1993       4.4     16.2     19.6      B-(*)
Sein Manuel         50                280/69      1998       0.4      1.9      2.8      B-(W)
Mabalacet          100                230/89      1993       0.8      8.9      4.7      B-(e)
Concopcion          s0                230/69      1993       0.4      2.0      2.4      B-(e)
Batangas           100           230/69/18.8      1993       0.5      2.0      8.1      B-(e)
Bauang              50                230/69      19         0.4      2.0      2.4      B-(W)
Nage                50           230/69/13.8      1993       0.4      2.0      2.4      B-(0)
Sucat                                    230      1993       2.6      4.2      6.1    B-(e)
Balintawxk                               230      1998       1.9      0.9      2.0      B-(W)
Calapen             10               69/13.8      1993       0.1      0.7      0.3      B-(0)
Son Jose                             16/84.6      1998       0.4      2.8      2.7      B-()o
Puerto Princesa     10           138/69/18.8      1993       0.2      0.6      1.0      B-(a)                                          0 O
Narra                6           138/69/13.8      1993       0.2      0.3      1.0      B-(0)                                          4
VirAc                6 518.8/69                   1993       0.2      0.6      0.8    B-()
Masbate              6              138.8/69      1998       0.2      0.6      0.6.    B-(a)
Marcopper            5              138.8/69      1998       0.2      0.6      0.8     S-(0)
Spero              500            230/116-69      1993                6.4      6.4     S-(0)
WVAR Devices                 76           69      1993       1.0      1.6      2.6      9-(e)



III - SUBSTATIONS
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------------------------
VOLTAGE                           COST              FINANCING/
COMPONENT OR LOCATION   CAPAC T       LEVEL    COMPLETION          (USS NMillion)         APPROVAL STATUS
(WA) (WAR)        (kV)      (Year)     Local Foreign    Totl 
WZON INTERCONNECTION
Batangas         100              ".0/116       1993      0.7      1.9      2.6     C-(*)
.alapan          100          li6/69/l8.8      1993      0.7       1.6      2.8     C-(*)
Zarinduqu,        20              69/13.8       1993      0.3      0.6      0.9     C-(.)
Mulanay                                 89      1993      0.1      0.1      0.2     C-(*)
Bulan                                  69       1993      0.1      0.1      0.2     C-(*)
Masbate                           69/13.8       1993      0.6      0.6      1.1     C-(*)
VISAYAS
Ste. Barbara                             69       1993      0.1      0.1      0.2     B-(*)
A lan                                    138      1993      0.3      1.4      1.7     B-(.)
Mabinmy                                  139      1993      0.1      0.4      0.6     B-(0)
Leyte Mooring                            69       1993      0.1      0.1      0.2     B-(*)
Sparo Transformer  50          138/69/113.8       1993      0.0      0.8      0.8     8-(.)
WAR Devico*                 30           69       1993      0.0      0.3      0.3     B-(e)
MINDANAO
Aploya              so          138/69/13.8       1993      0.3      1.6      1.9     8-(0)
Sangali             s0          138/69/13.8       1993      0.4      1.8      2.2     B-(o)
Cen. Santos         50          138/69/13.8       1993      0.2      1.1      1.3     B-(*)
Sta. Clara                               138      1993      0.2      1.3      1.5    B-(e)
Autora                                   138      1993      0.1      0.7      0.8     B-(0)
Davao                                    138      1993      0.3      1.6      1.9    B-(.)
Tinda l                                  138      1993      0.2      1.2      1.4     B-(0)
Capacitor II
Sangali                  7.t           69       1993      0.1      0.2      0.3     B-(*)
Aurora                   7.6           69       1993      0.1      0.2      0.8     8(e)
Bs;lig                   7.t           69       1993      0.1      0.2      0.3     B-(-)
Badas                    7.6           69       1993      0.1      0.2      0.3     B-(*)
Capacitor III
Nuling                   7.6           69       1993      0.1      0.2      0.3     B-(W)
Davao                    7.6           69       1993      0.1      0.2      0.8     B-(*)
Sangali                  7.6           69       1993      0.1      0.2      0.8     8-(e)
Aurora                   7.6           69       1993      0.1      0.2      0.8     B-(o)
Spare Transformer  60         138/69/13.8       1993               0.8      0.8    B9()
TOTAL SU85TATION (BASE COST)       33.9    127.1    161.0
OF  UH0CH:                           - 
FINANCED                         10.6    42.9       58.6
NOT FINANCED                                                                                                bl
BASE COST                      23.3     84.2    107.6
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (33)     0.7      2.6       8.2
PRICE CONTINGENCIES             6.7      10.7     16.4
SUBTOTAL                       29.7     97.4    127.1
TOTAL (INCLUDINC CONTINGENCIES)    40.3    140.3    180.6
=E:=  =3M



PHILIPPINES
___________
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
NPC - DETAILS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
------------------------------------
IV - INCREMENTAL WORKING CAPITAL
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----
COST
COMPONENT                        US3 (Million)                  FINANCING STATUS
Local     Foreign    Total
OPEX Spares                 13.2          0.0      13.2         B
15 Days Fuel Inventory
- for combustion turbine   6.3          0.0       5.3         B
- for other plants        61.9          0.0      61.9         B
- coal                    16.1          0.0      16.1         B
Total (Not Financed)   85.t          0.0      85.5
SUMMARY OF TOTAL COST OF PROJECTS COMPONENTS
FINANCED GENERATION         71.1        768.5    859.6
TRANSMISSION       50.7        106.1     16S.8
SUBSTATION         10.6         42.9      53.5
Subtotal       132.4        937.6   1069.9
NOT FINANCED GENERATION    124.3        832.2    96S.6
TRANSMISSION      234.8        246.2    481.0
SUBSTATION         29.7         97.4    127.1
WORKING CAPITAL    85.5          0.0      8S.6
TRAINING            0.0          2.0       2.0
Subtotal       474.3       1177.8   1652.1
T O T A L                  606.7       2115.3   2722.0
LEGEND
Financing Status  Al With definite financing
A2 With financing under negotiations
A3 Unidentified financing (supply of equipment of geothermal projects)
B Financing under IBRD - Sector Loan and Japan Eximbank through ICB
C  Optional financing
(a) Not yet approved by ICC



- 63 -                        ANNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
OEA: Details of Project Components
1.       The OEA action plan for 1990-93 to be financed under the loan
comprises:
(i) Studies
(a) Cost Structure and Transfer Pricing in Petroleum
The terms of reference will include the following:
- develop a database on cost structure (i.e., operating, financing
and investment costs) of the oil companies from procurement to
marketing and distribution of products;
-  analyze the cost structure with a view to identifying the key
factors affecting the oil companies; costs, past present and
future and compare with ASEAN corresponding costs;
- develop the oil companies' material and energy balances over their
practical range of operating levels;
- formulate alternative product pricing policies considering the
objectives of economic efficiency, demand management, social
equity, revenue generation and financial viability of the oil
companies among others;
- develop metnodologies for determining prices under each alterna-
tive pricing policy;
- recommend the appropriate pricing policy for the Philippine case;
- determine the public capability for bearing the prices recommend;
- recommend appropriate institutional arrangements for monitoring
and reporting oil company performance;
The study should produce computerized database, software and
recommend hardware. OEA staff should be trained in associating
with consultants. Twenty consultant months are likely to be used.
(b) Environmental impacts of Geothermal Development
Terms of reference are to be developed with a view to consultants
carrying out the following tasks:
- visit sites producing geothermal steam and examine the environ-
mental situation, current and as should be anticipated in the
future;



- 64 -                        ANNEX 3.5
Page 2 of 4
-  recommend on adequacy and appropriateness of existing environ-
mental safeguards, comparing with safeguards in other countries
but taking note of the differing circumstances of the Philippines
such as the economy, sparseness of population in the geothermal
areas, climate, etc..
- indicate functions in this context to be performed by the
geothermal operator, the consumer, the environment management
agency (EMB) and the OEA, the last as the ultimate trustee for
proper controls in the areas licensed;
- train OEA staff to discharge their functions satisfactorily. Five
consultant months are provided.
(c)  Non-Power application of geothermal effluents - case study in Mak-Ban
The proposal is to undertake techno-economic studies on the utiliza-
tion of the power plant effluent, hot waters from the separators and
fluids from the unconnected producing wells of the Mak-Ban geothermal
field for non-power application. The activities would includes Data
gathering; evaluation, assessment and identification of agricultural
and/or industrial applications; design of the pilot demonstration
plant; cost estimation and projection of financial performance with
reference to the pilot plant; training of Filipino staff. Eleven
consultant man-months are expected to be required.
(d)  Fuel contingency plan
The study will comprise the following:
- identification of possible scenarios of oil supply disruptions and
other cases of disruptions which could affect the country's petro-
I;                     leum supply and distribution system;
- evaluation of the existing local supply and distribution system of
petroleum products;
- review of the historical consumption of petroleum products in the
various sectors and projection of petroleum demand, indicating
priorities;
- set up contingency plans, the mechanics of implementing the plans,
under different scenarios; appropriate computer software to be
made available; hardware to be recommended;
- propose demand control and conservation measures to be enforced
under contingency plans;
- define roles/functions of various government agencies and the oil
industry under contingencies and suggest policy guidelii.es on the
following aspects --administrative and control, domestic produc-
tion and refining, inventory control, allocation and distribution
and security;



ANNEX 3.5
- 65 -                        Page 3 of 4
- train Filipino staff.
Seven consultant man-months are considered necessary.
(e) Non-conventional energy assessment
The objective is to draw up-to-date local plans for the increase and
widespread use of non-conventional energy systems and then integrate
these into a national energy systems and then integrate these into a
national plan for the non-conventional sector. First action will be
to assess non-con energy demand in the rural agricultural, indus-
trial, commercial and household sectors; similarly in the non-rural
sectors; through energy surveys, energy use pattern studies and non-
con energy demand studies. This will be matched by an assessment of
potential non-con energy supply of bio-mass, solar, wind and micro-
hydro resources. In the next step local non-con energy plans for
projects will be drawrn and a national plan formulated in due course.
The projects will be detailed in their techno-economic dimensions.
For immediate purposes, case studies/sample projects are to be under-
taken and database developed sufficient to provide a firm framework
for national projections and exploitation of renewable energy. OEA
staff, with the assistance of regional universities, have been
conducting surveys of non-power demand and supply and have set up a
few experimental projects. Nevertheless, the work should gain
greater momentum and also receive inputs from experts from abroad.
Accordingly, nine consultant man-months are provided for in the
initial phase. There are some equipment needs and these are
included.
(ii) Institutional Strengthening
(a) Energy Database
Database has to be developed so as to publish the following tables
periodically -- macro-energy economy indicators, energy product
prices, energy resource and reserve statistics, energy commodity
accounts and energy balances. Computer software should be developed,
staff trained and a working system left in place. Four consultant
man-months will be utilized.
(b) Power System Planning
OEA has to have capabilities to develop short and long term genera-
tion and transmission system expansion programs and equip itself with
computerware for the purpose. This will ensure enlightened coordina-
tion with other primary planning agencies, namely NPC, NEA and
MERALCO and other entrants into generation from the private sector.
OEA will use consultants to prepare course material for training and
to provide on the job training in all facets of power planning. The
consultants will also design software packages. Fourteen man-months
of consultancy services are expected to be used.



- 66 -                        ANNEX 3.5
Page 4 of 4
(c) Regional Energy Demand Forecasting
Capabilities have to be developed in this field also. Current
methodologies have to be reviewed and integrated into a consistent
process. Software has to be developed. Econometric modelling of
power demand on a regional basis and/or grid basis has to be intro-
duced. Five consultant man-months will be used.
(d) Energy Information Systems
The requirements are for computerware and office appliances. These
are included under Equipment.
(e) Geothermal Technical Capabilities
The main need here is to promote skills in administering geothermal
operations around the country. OEA has several obligations to
discharge -- in negotiating exploration and development contracts, irn
monitoring and inspecting progress, in overseeing efficiency of
operations, in optimization of production, in prudent reservoir
management and so on. Training of staff with geothermal companies
abroad/utilization of consultants to conduct trailiing courses is
required. The equivalent of five consultant man-months has been
provided.
(iii) Equipment
The listing of equipment by broad categories is indicated as below:
Value in USS ('000)
Energy research laboratory                                  600
Field instruments/tools/supplies                            150
Computers and Software                                      150
Miscellaneous office appliances                              79
Total                                                  979
(iv) Building Expansion
The division of expenditure is as fDllows:
Civil works                                                 660
Electrical system                                           740
Total                                                  1,400



- 67 -                          ANNEX 3.6
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
EMB: Details of Work Components
The components consist of air and water quality monitoring projects,
pollution control, enhanced environmental impact assessments, modernization of
laboratory facilities and manpower training and development.
(a) Air and Water Quality Monitoring. The component will establish an air
quality monitoring network so that more reliable and comprehensive
baseline data and air quality and air pollution levels in the country
can be gathered;
(b) gather data to update ambient air quality standards for various air
pollutants, as well as to assess the efficacy of air pollution
control programs being implemented;
(c) develop a data base for easy access retrieval and updating of
relevant information; and
(d) establish monitoring stations in selected areas to determine noise
levels and to gather data which could serve as basis for updating the
ambient noise standards and the formulation of a more concrete and
effective noise abatement program.
The air quality monitoring uetwork will consist of thirty (30) fixed
stations that will monitor the power plants distributed as follows: 20
stations in Luzon (7 power plants), 3 station in the Bicol Region (Southern
Luzon - ' power plant), and 7 stations in Cebu (3 power plants). The specific
locations of the stations will be chosen, based upon meteorological conditions
affecting the dispersion of pollutants. Each station will be equipped with
the following automatic, continuous air monitoring devise:
Analyzers/Equipment                      Frequency       Method
S02                                      Continuous      UV
Flourescence
NOX (NO & NO2)                           Continuous      Chemiluminescence
CO                                       Continuous      Non-Dispersive
Infrared
H2S (for geothermal plant only)          Continuous
TSP                                      Continuous      Beta-Absorption
for High Volume
Sampler
Ozone                                    Continuous
Meteorological (wind direction &
velocity, relative humidity, etc>)       Continuous



ANNEX 3.6
- 68 -                          Page 2 of 4
An additional twenty (20) stations will be set-up to reinforce the
observations from the initial stations in order to determine the dispersion
patterns of pollutants. These data will be used to develop air quality
models.
The specific objectives of the enhanced water quality monitoring and
surveillance program are to:
(a) locate sources and pathways of water pollutant and evaluate pollutant
load;
(b) determine the baseline state of the quality of a water body, deter-
mine the change of water quality and predict future trends;
(c) gather data/information for enforcement of water quality standards
and regulations and for evaluation of the effectiveness of pollution
control measures/actions; and
(d) gather data for developing water quality management.
In order to attain extensive level of water quality monitoring capability and
data records, additional strategic stations/locations will be established
where the following sampling frequency will be adopted:
Type of Water Body                  Sampling Frequency
streams and rivers                  every two weeks
lakes and reservoirs                every two months
ground water                        every three months
The characteristics to be monitored will be tailored according to
the uses of the particular water body, but in all cases water temperature,
PH and dissolved oxygen will be measured on site. The mobile water quality
stations will be environmental incidents, such as spills or pollutant
leaks.
(b) Pollution Control and Prevention from Stationary Sources
This component entails the following activities:
(i) source inventory of air and water pollution - Source combustion
sources emitting air pollutants and point sources of water
pollution will be identified based upon complaints and systema-
tic visual surveys by field inspectors. Actual source sampling
test and analysis of pollutants will be conducted to determine
the emission rates and the efficiency of treatment facilities
adopted. Data gathered will be plotted on the map of the study
area and its immediate environs (on a 1 km basis) to delineate
the concentration levels of the air pollutants and air pollution
burdens in relation to the area affected.



ANNEX 3.6
- 69 -                          Page 3 of 4
In the same manner, waste water discharges will be identified
according to sources and measured to determine the loading on
the receiving bodies of water. This point samplinv will be
complemented by the broad-based water quality moni    ng of the
receiving bodies to determine the impact, pollutic        ils/
trends and loading of the bodies of water.
(ii) assessment of the efficacy of air and water pollution control
programs.
For a truly effective and efficient pollution control program, the regulatory
and technological control systems should be enhanced and strengthened. To
accomplish that end, the EMB will conduct scientific experiments, investiga-
tions and research to upgrade environmental quality standards and to evaluate
economical and practical methods of preventing air, water, land and noise
pollution. Concomitantly, the EMB will undertake extensive monitoring,
surveillance, inspections, surveys of location, magnitude, extent, severity,
causes, effects, and other pertinent information regarding all kinds of
pollution.
(c)  Enhanced Environmental Impact Assessments (EIASs)
With the systematic development of a comprehensive overview of
ambient environmental conditions and their evolution overtime, as
made possible by the data developed under the first project, analysis
of the interactions of emissions from particular stationary sources
can be used to identify especially sensitive energy-related activi-
ties in particular locations. With this expanded data base and know-
ledge, the requirements for satisfactory EIAs may also be
reevaluated.
(d) Modernizing Laboratory Facilities
The Research and Development Division (RDD) of EMB plays a vital role
in the effective discharge of the EMB's functions. The RDD conducts
supportive research and studies that provide pertinent data that are
essential in (1) establishing realistic and attainable standards of
environmental quality, (2) in the formulation of the rules and regu-
lations for the implementation of the Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) System, the disposal of solid, toxic, and hazardous substances
and (3) in the formulation of policies, plans and programs to convey
existing and emergent environmental problems in the country. It also
provides supportive laboratory services for the air and water quality
monitoring activities.
The EMB has been conducting various research activities to understand
better the impact of pollution on selected agricultural crops, food,
fish and on the quality of air and water bodies as well.
At present, the activities of the RDD are hampered by the lack of
Laboratory facilities, most important of which are working area and
reliable equipment. Most of the equipment are out-moded and are not
sensitive enough to detect low concentrations of pollutants, the



ANNEX 3.6
- 70 -                          Page 4 of 4
concentration limit under the standard is sometimes lower than the
detection sensitivity of the equipment being utilized in the
analysis.
Updating the facilities and capacities of EMB will be achieved
through the following:
(i) acquisition of modern equipment necessary for sampling, conduct-
ing research and providing laboratory services;
(ii) acquisition of new laboratory space to house the equipment and
to provide an adequate working place;
(iii)  provision of continuous maintenance of the equipment and
facilities.
(e)  Manpower Training and Development
With the constant economic and therefore energy-related growth in the
Philippines, a continuous stream of new, potentially adverse environ-
mental changes are being introduced whose complex interactions with
already highly polluted air -- and watersheds are only partially
understood. Meanwhile new monitoring methods and analytic procedures
are constantly introduced. This necessitates continuous training to
upgrade the skills of technical personnel so they can be more effec-
tive in helping the Bureau to implement the government's programs and
plans on environmental protection.
Training of personnel on technical and management aspects will be
initiated by inviting consultants to map out and inaugurate a syste-
matic program of training and of integrating the use of new equipment
in the day to day activities of EMB. Consultants would also provide
assistance in the setting-up, implementation and evaluation of the
air-and-water-quality monitoring networked at the initial stage of
the project. The training should include environmental management,
computer programming, data analysis, quality assurance, methodology
studies, and operation and maintenance of both monitoring and labora-
tory equipment.



ANNEX 3.7
- 71 -
PfiILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
NEA: Details of Project Components
The NEA action plan to be implemented in 1990-93 requires the following
investments, which will be financed under the proposed loan:
(i)   Upgrade NEA's Institutional Capabilities through provision of:
o    mini computers, as well as drafting equipment and peripherals;
o    micro computers, with printers, softwares, etc. (including training);
o    Professional and Office Equipments and Fixtures;
o    Communications equipments (radios, intra office, fax machine);
o    Warehouse equipments, (crane, 25T, 2 forklifts, miscellaneous);
o    Vehicles - van type or  4 x 4 (capable of modest hauling of personnel
and equipments to REC sites in luzon).
(ii) Establish 12 NEA Regional Offices and provide them with:
o    Office equipments, computers, copiers, fax machines, leasehold
improvement;
o    12 vehicles (one for each office), van type (for transport of
personnel and equipments to REC sites in the region).
(iii) Establish 7 Zonal Repair and Maintenance Facilities with:
o    repair and testing equipments;
o    7 vehicles (one for each center), van type with permanently mounted
test and repair equipments;
o    communications equipments.
(iv) Training/technical assistance to NEA staff.
(v)   For 10 RECs to be selected, model rehabilitation of the distribution
system--this will involve for each REC, ren.vation of one substation and
of all feeders from branches and secondary lines emanating this
substation.
(vi) Forty-one other RECs also to benefit, 32 through addition of one new
substation each and nine through increase of power-transformer size;
associated voltage regulation/control equipment being also provided.



- 72 -
ANNEX 8.6
Tab-F 1
P    1 ot 2
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Dotails ot PNOC's Prolect Cost Estimates
Foreign
Proj oct Cost --------         ------Project Cost-------      as X
Project,                Local     Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign    Total   of Total
------Pesos Millions -------    ----USS Million------
I. PNOC-EDC GEOTHERMAL
BACMAN I                    160.9        408.6    669.4        7.0       19.0     26.0
BACMAN II                   358.6        243.0    601.6       18.7       11.8     28.0
OTHER LUZON               8,193.1     2,029.8   5,222.7      146.5       94.4   242.9
PALINPINON I                186.8        120.4     288.2       7.7       656       18.8
PALINPINON II               812.5        858.9    689.4       14.6       16.6      81.1
MAMBUCAL                    895.2        262.8     867.5      18.4       12.2      80.6
TONGONAN I                   79.6         88.8     148.4       8.7        8.2       6.9
TOTAL GEOTHERMAL          4,865.7      8,489.5   8,145.1     216.5      162.8    878.8      42.8X
II. PETRON
Marketing
Service Station rehab.      282.1          -       282.1      18.1        -        18.1
Now Service Stations        8056.          -       80656      14.2        -        14.2
New Bulk P  ..to            774.0          -       774.0      86.0        -        86.0
Bulk Plant tankage           51.0          -        51.0       2.4        -         2.4
P8R-ROS Submarine Pipeline  246.0        788.1     988.1      11.4       84.8     46.7
NPC-SUCAT Receiving Lino     78.0        280.9     808.9       8.6       10.7      14.4
Service Station equipment   148.8         94.6     288.4       6.7        4.4      11.1
Consumer Facilities          90.0          -        80.0       8.7        -        8.7
UCLPG   iindors and tilling   299.0        -       299.0      18.9        -        18.9
Oth-rs                       80.6          -        80.5       8.7        -        8.7
SUBTOTAL               2,888.9      1,0838.   8,402.6     108.8       49.6    158.8      81.8X



- 73 -
ANNEX 8.8
Table I
Paer 2 of 2
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Details of PNOC's Prolect Cost Estimate.
Foreign
-------Project Cost --------    ------Project Cost-------     as %
Projects                Local     Foreign     Total    Local    Foreign    Total   of Total
------Pesos Millions -------    ------USS Million-------
Refining
Regular Rehabilitation      302.4         -       802.4      14.1        -       14.1
VPS Debottlenecking/Meroi
Process Control/Encon     166.4       441.0    607.4        7.7       20.5    28.2
FRN/PRN Loading Facilities    7.9         0.6      16.5       0.4        0.4      0.6
Marine Loading Arms           -          12.9      12.9       -          0.6      0.6
OUB Upgrading                22.8        19.4      41.7       1.0        0.9      1.9
LPG Production Facilities    87.1        68.8    105.9        1.7        8.2      4.9
DFO Desulfurizer             89.2       169.9    259.1        4.1        7.9    12.0
Subtotal                626.8       720.5  1,345.8       29.1       83.5    62.6    58.Sx
Total Marketing and Refining 2,984.2     1,784.1  4,748.0    137.9         83.0   220.8    s7.6%
:II. PNOC: INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM       15.8        52.5    181.2        0.7        2.4      3.1    77.4%
Total Base Cost              7,635.1    6,326.0  12,961.1    855.1        247.7   602.8
Physical Contingencies         789.9       582.6   1,302.5      85.8       24.8    60.6
Price Contingencies          1,658.9     1,038.2   2,690.1      47.2       80.6    77.8
Total Project Cost           9,961.9     6,891.8  16,853.7    488.1       803.1    7<1.2      40.9X
Note: Geothermal costs include amortizatlon of common construction equipment to b6 purchased to a
value of S19 million. Consultant costs are also included in all project costs and are shown
separately in the procurement tables.



PHTY IPPTNFS
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
DETAILS OF NPC'S COST ESTIMATES
COMPONENTS                              COST ESTIMATES
Foreign Cost
Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total as X of Total
(Pesos Million)                 (USS Million)
Generat;on
I[hera I (Coal)        1124.5  11016.6  12141.1        52.3   612.4   664.7            90.7
Gootherm 1             1609.3  7439.0  8948.3          70.2   346.0   416.2             83.1
Combustion Turbine      402.1  7776.8  8178.6          18.7   361.7   380.4             95.1
Rehabilitation-Therm a    336.4  4846.2  4981.6        16.6   216.1   231.7             93.3
Rehabilitation-Diesel    187.1   999.8  1188.8          8.7    46.5    65.2             84.2
Subtotal            3658.3  31878.1  36436.3       165.5  1482.7  1648.2             90.0
Transmission              4878.2  8698.4  11474.8        226.8   306.9   533.7             57.5
Substations                728.9  2732.7  3461.6          33.9   127.1   181.0             78.9
Working Capital           1838.3      0.0  1838.3         86.6      0.0    86.6             0.0
Training                     0.0    43.0    43.0           0.0      2.0      2.0          100.0
TOTAL BASE COLST         11001.6 41252.1  62253.6        611.7  1918.7  2430.4             78.9
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES     425.7  1408.3  1834.0          19.8    eS.6    86.3             76.8
PRICE CONTINGENCIES       1880.0  3277.6  6167.6          76.2   131.1   206.8             83.5
TOTAL                 13307.3  45937.8  59245.1       606.7  2115.3  2722.0             77.7
_~            ~                   = .=  
Ifr 4



- 75  -                                 ANNEX 3.8
Tnble B
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Detoils of OEA's Project Cost Estimates
Project Cost                    Project Cost          Foreign
------Pesos Millions-------      ------USS Thousands-----   Cost as a
Projects                 Local     Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign    Total  X of Total
a. Studies
Cost/Price in Petroleum        0.8         7.0       7.4       16.8      826.2    342.0      9654X
Environment in Geothermal      0.3         1.7        2.0      12.0       81.0      93.0     87.1x
Non-power in Geothermal        1.0         3.3       4.3       48.0      164.0    200.0      77.0X
Fuel Contingency               1.6         1.2       2.8       73.1       57.9    131.0      44.2X
Non-conventional Energy        8.6         -         8.6      808.0        -       808.0      O.Ox
Total Studies                  9.8        13.3      23.1      464.9      619.1  1,074.0      67.6x
b. Institution Building
Energy Database                1.8         -         1.8       82.1        -       82.1       O.OX
Power System Plan              1.4         3.8       5.2       65.7      178.0    241.7      72.8x
Energy Forecasting             0.2         4.6       4.7       11.6      209.2    220.7    94.8x
Manpower Training              2.2         2.2       4.3      100.0      100.0    200.0      50.0X
Total Institution              6.6        10.4      18.0      269.8      486.2    744.5    65.21
c. Equipment/Supplies
Demand Management              2.1         -         2.1       98.8        -        98.8      O.OX
Geothermal                     1.3         -         1.3       61.4        -       61.4       0.01
Conventional Resources         1.6         -          1.6      67.9        -       87.9       0.01
Nonconventional Resources      0.2         7.3       7.6       10.2       837.7    847.9    97.11
EDP Section                    0.6         2.1       2.8       26.5       98.0    122.6      78.41
Energy Research Lab            1.2         -          1.2      66.8        -       56.8       0.01
Energy Supply Development      -          10.6      10.8        -        492.6    492.6    10O.OX
Coal and Nuclear Minerals      0.7         1.4       2.1       82.6       82.8     96.4      66.8X
Oil and Gas                    0.4         -         0.4       18.3        -        18.8      0.01
Legal Affairs & Counselling   0.1          -         0.1        3.7        -         8.7      O.OX
Field Vehicles                 -           2.8       2.8        -        :09.1    109.1    100.0X
Total Equipment Supplies          0.8        23.6      31.8      872.8    1,098.1  1,470.9      74.71
d. Building Expansion/
Improvement                 22.8         -        22.8   1,080.0         -    1,060.0       0.01
GRAND TOTAL                      48.2        47.4       93.6   2,147.0    2,202.4  4,349.4      60.8%



ANNEX 8.8
- 76 -                                    Tble- 4
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Dotails of ERS'c Prolect Cost Estimates
Projoct Cost                    Project Cost           Foreign
P-----ePsos Millions -------     ------US8 Thousands-----   Cost as a
Projects                 Local     Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign    Total  X of Total
a. Training                       0.8         8.0        8.8      14        372       8e8        96.4
b. Tech A Magmnt. Assistance      6.0         7.0       12.0     238        326      568         58.4
c. LRMC Pricing Capability        2.0         4.3        6.3      93        200       293        68.3
d. Petroleum Testing Facility    4.1          8.0       12.1     194        872      S66         6.8;
*. Moetr Teoting Facility        11.9         0.0       11.9     665          0.0   655           0.0
f. Information System             0.6         1.8        2.8      22         85       107        79.4
Total Boso Cost               23.8        29.1      52.9   1,108       1,866    2,468         65.0
Physical Contingency at 10%   2.3          2.9        6.8     110        18S       246       65.0
Price Contingency              2.8         2.6        6.5     18a        123       268        48.0
Total Project Cost            29.0        34.6      63.7   1,262       1,614    2,966         64.4



- 77 -
ANNEX 8.6
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Detasls of EMB's Prolect Cost Estimate.
Project Cost                     Project Cost          Foreign C
------ Pesos Millions -------    ------US  Thousands-----      as a X
Projects                 Local     Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign    Total   of Total
a. Operational Development
Baseline Air/Waitor
Monitoring                     0.5       151.9     152.4       25      7,067    7,092         99.6
Pollution Control              0.0        20.0      20.0        0.0      931       931       100.0
ETA Improvement                0.0         0.5      05.         0.0       21        21       100.0
Modernization of Labs          8.0         6.6      12.6      279        306      S65         62.3
Planning Consultancy           0.0         3.1       3.1        0.0      146       146       100.0
Training                       0.0        25.5       25.6       0.0    1,186    1,186        100.0
Total Base Cost                6.6       207.7     214.2      304      9,659    9,968         97.8
Physical Contingency ot 10X   0.6         20.7       21.4      80        968       996        97.3
Price Contingency              1.0        21.6      22.6       46      1,000    1,048         96.6
Total Project Cost             8.1       249.9     268.1      361     11,625   12,506         96.6



- 78 -
ANNEX 3.8
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
DETAILS OF NEA'S PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
----------------------------------------
------------------------------------__---------------------------------------__-----------------------------------__--
COMPONENTS                                           COST ESTIMATES
Foreign Cost
Local   Foreign   Total          Local   Foreign   Total       as X of Total
(Pesos Million)                   (USS Million)
I.   NEA's Institutional Capabilities
Computers                           0.00    12.90    12.90            0.00     0.60      0.60            100.00
Professional £ Office Equipment     4.30    26.80    80.10            0.20      1.20     1.40             95.71
Comunication Equipment              0.00      3.28     8.23           0.00     0.16      0.16            100.00
Warehouse Equipment                 4.30      6.46    10.76           0.20      0.80     0.50             60.00
Vehicles                            0.00      2.16     2.16           0.00     0.10      0.10            100.00
Subtotal                       8.60    60.65    69.18            0.40     2.86      2.76             86.45
II.   NEA Regional Offices
Office Equipment                    2.16      2.68     4.73           0.10     0.12      0.22             54.66
Vehicles                            0.00      3.87     3.97           0.00     0.18      0.18            100.00
Subtotal                       2.16      6.46     8.60           0.10     0.80      0.40             76.00
III.  4EA Zonal Repair A
Maintenance Facilities
Repair and Testing Equipment        8.46    34.83    41.28            0.80      1.62     1.92             84.38
Vehicles                            0.00      7.10     7.10           0.00     0.88      0.88            100.00
Communication Equlpment             0.00      0.66     0.65           0.00     0.08      0.03            100.00
Subtotal                       6.46    42.67    49.02            0.80     1.98      2.28             86.84
IV. REC Distribution Rehabilitatlon
(About Eleven Cooperstives)
Distribution System Equipment       0.00   162.11   162.11            0.00     7.64      7.64            100.00
Substation Equipment                 6.69    88.70    44.29           0.26      1.80     2.06             87.a8
Auxiliary Equipment                 0.00    48.44    48.44            0.00      2.16     2.16            100.00
Labor                              47.62      0.00    47.62           2.21     0.00      2.21              0.00
Subtotal                      63.11   247.25   800.86            2.47    11.60    13.97              82.82
V. Substation Equipment
(About Eight Cooperatives)
Transformers (6 MVA)                0.00    26.88    26.88            0.00      1.25     1.26            100.00
Labor                               4.09      0.00     4.09           0.19     0.00      0.19              0.00
Subtotal                      4.09    26.88    80.96            0.19     1.26      1.44             86.81
VI.  Training & Technical Assistance       -----    -----    -----          -----    -----
(NEA & REC)                           0.00    14.41    14.41            0.00     0.67     0.67             100.00
TOTAL BASE COST                       74.89  388.08   462.47            3.46    18.06    21.61              83.91
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (1OX)           7.44    88.81    46.26           0.36      1.81     2.16             88.91
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   10.64    61.60    62.14           0.49      2.40     2.89             83.04
TOTAL                                92.86   478.48   570.86            4.80    22.26    2e.66              88.82
-= =  =Y-- .                  s==      __        =_=



- 79 -
ANNEX 3.9
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Procurement Arrangements for PNOC
(In $ millions)
ICB     LCB      Other    N/A    Total
PNOC-ED
Steam field Installation and Equip.   83.6       -        20.0      -     103.6
(20.2)    -       (20.0)    -      (40.2)
Third Party Services                     -       -        10.7      -      10.7
-       -         (7.7)    -      (7.7)
Consultancy Studies                      -       -         5.0      -       5.0
-       -         (3.5)    -      (3.5)
Drilling Consumables and
Downhole Tools                      87.9      2.0      14.0      -     103.9
(65.6)   (2.0)    (14.0)    -      (81.6)
Establisbment Expenses                  --                 -      245.0   245.04n
Subtotal                          171.5      2.0      49.7   245.0   468.3
(85.8)   (2.0)    (45.2)    -    (133.0)
PNOC: Institutional Development
Training/consultants, etc.               -       -         4.0      -       4.0
-       -         (3.0)    -      (3.0)
PETRON
Marketing
Service Station Rehab.         ]
New Service Stations           ]       -       -        80.1      -      80.1
New Bulk Plants                ]
Bulk Plant Tankage             ]
PBR-ROS Submarine Pipiline ]
NPC-SUCAT Receiving Line         ]   86.5      -         -        -      86.5
Service Station equipment ]
Consumer Facilaities           ]
LPG Cylinders & Filling Plant ]       -        -        26.0      -      26.0
Others                         ]
Refining
Regular Rehabilitation         ]      -        -        17.1      -      17.1
VPS Debottlenecking/Merox      }
Process Control/Encon        }     39.7      -         -        -      39.7
FRN/PRN Loading Facilaities }
Marine Loading Arms            }
OUB Upgrading                  }
LPG Production Facilities             5.4      -         -        -       5.4
(3.9)    -         -        -      (3.9)
DFO Desulfurizer                     13.5      -         -        -      13.5
(9.5)    -         -        -      (9.5)
Consultancy for LPG & Desulfurizer       -       -          0.6     -       0.6
-  -     (0.6)    -       (0.6)
Subtotal                          145.1      -       123.8      -     268.9
(13.4)    -        (0.6)    _      (14.0)



ANNEX 3.0
Page 2 of3
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT FOR NPC
(US3 Uillon)
ITEM                                                                                 PROCUREMENT METHOD                                     FINANCING
ICB                   LC8                 UI/DC/OTHER                 NIA              TOTAL    BAW/
--- - -- - -    -- - -                          - --- - -    -- -- - - - --EXIMBAhW
Total    Bank          Total    Bank           Total     Bank          Total     Bank
FINANCED PROJECTS
Generation                              497.0                  127.1                   218.5                    17.0                 859.6         0.0
Transmission                            123.0                   80.7                                              .1                 1158.8        0.0
Substations                              44.5                    8.0                                             1.0                  63.5         0.0
- - -- -    -- -  -   -  --- -- - --   - - - -    - -- ---    - -- ---   - -- ---   - -----     ----
Subtotal                             664.5      0.0         165.9      0.0          218.5      0.0           21.1      0.0       1069.9         0.0
- ---- -- _-- - --    _- -- ---   - -- ---     - -- ---   - -- ---     - -- ---   - -- ---   - -- ---    - -- ---
NOT FINANCED PROJECTS
Generation:                                                                                                                                              o
Calaca III                           274.8      0.0                                                                               274.6         0.0
Geotherm l: Equipment                257.7    72.0                                   35.6                    16.0                 309.3        72.C
Works                                            87.2    57.0                                                          87.2        67.0
Combustion Turbine: Equipmnt          63.4    30.0                                    3.2                     0.7                  67.3        30.0
Works                                    11.9      8.0                                                         11.9         8.0
Rehabilitation: Equipment             96.1      7.6                                  20.9    15.0            13.9                 130.9        22.6
Works                                         8.4      2.0                                                          8.4         2.0
Diesel: Equipment                     46.2    12.5                                   10.0      4.0            8.7                  62.9        16.6
Works     1                                           4.0      2.6                                                          4.0         2.5
Transmission: Equipment                 423.3    56.0                                                            9.8                 432.9       56.0
Works                                             48.1    29.0                                                          48.1        29.0
Substation: Equipmnt                    111.8    31.0                                                            2.6                 114.4        31.0
Works                                               12.7      6.0                                                         12.7         6.0
Working Capital                          72.3      5.5                                  13.2    11.0                                  85.6        16.5
Training                                                                                                         2.0      2.0          2.0         2.0
- - -- -      - -- -     _ -- -  -   -- -  -   -- -  -  _- -  - -- -- ---  - -- ---  - -- ---  - -- ---
Subtotal                            1345.4   213.6          172.3   104.6            82.9    30.0            51.6      2.0       1862.1       350.0
TOTAL                                     2009.9                  338.1                   301.4                    72.6                2722.0
BANK/EXIMBAKK                                       213.5                  104.5                    30.0                     2.0                    350.0
==                         =           _                                =    ==



- 81 -                                   Annex 3.9
Page 3 of 3
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANCEMENT - NEA
(USi MlliIon)
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__--------------------------------------
ITEM                                    PROCUtEMENT METHOD                               FINANCING
ICe                    LCB              OTHER OR N/A          TOTAL         BAWK
Tot.al    Sank       Total    Bank         Total    Sank
Computer A Oftice Equipment      2.Z0     2.10         0.44     0.27                               2.74        2.37
Repair & Testing Equipmnt        2.40     2.20         0.58     0.17                               2.96        2.87
vehicle                                                0.75     0.59                               0.76        0.59
Co_unication Equipment                                 0.22     0.22                               0.22        0.22
Distribution Equipmnt            9.80     9.80                               2.06                 11.85        9.80
Substation Equipment             5.20     6.20                               0.67                  6.07        6.20
Transfor r                       1.54     1.64                               0.28                  1.77        1.54
Training & Technieal Assistance                                              0.67    0.67          0.67        0.67
TOTAL                      20.74                  1.99                 38.2                  26.65
SAWK                                20.84                  1.26                  0.67                     22.26
=            =                    -        --                        u=



- 82 -                                        Annex 3.10
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SCCTOR PROJECT
_____________________
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(USS million)
Half Yearly Disburoement
Bank FY and     -----------------------------------------------------------   Cumulativ      Cuemulativo       Profile
Semester      PhOC      NPC      OEA      ERB       EMB      NEA    TOTAL                       (I)              (X)
190 rI       6.0      6.0      0.6      0.6       1.0      1.0    15.0            16.0            a.8           2.0
1991  I     10.0      9.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      3.0     25.0           40.0           10.8           6.0
II     12.0     11.0      1.0      1.0      2.0       8.0     30.0           70.0           17.9          17.0
1m     I    16.0    18.7       1.3      0.6      3.0       6.0     89.6          109.6           26.1          30.0
II     20.0    23.0       0.6               2.4      4.6      60.6          160.0           41.0          43.0
1993  I     23.0     32.0                         1.0      4.0     60.0          220.0           56.4          64.C
II     26.0     33.3                                  1.7     60.0          280.0           71.8          66.C
1994  I     20.0     40.0                                          60.0          340.0           87.2          73.t
II     10.0     22.0                                          32.0          372.0           96.4          80.c
1996 I      9.0     10.0                                          18.0          390.0          100.0          86.0
II                                                                                                        91.0
1996 I                                                                                                       100.0
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__---------------------------------------
.I



- 83 -                             ANNEX 3.11
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Key Activities for Bank Monitoring
The proposed sector operation does not fall under the conventional
project implementation schedule formulation of the Bank project. This opera-
tion will be monitored at two levels:
Level 1:  (a)  Annual Review of Energy Sector Investment Profile as
approved by ECC and NEDA. This review will be
completed by March of each year.
(b) Annual Review of Bank-financed components for each
agency. These reviews will be carried out in March of
each year.
Level 2:        Sector Components Supervision
Based of the annual review of Energy Sector Investments, the project
components for each of the agencies, to be financed by the Bank will be iden-
tified and jointly agreed to. For each of these components, an implementation
schedule shall be drawn up for supervision and monitoring by the Bank.



ANNEX 3.12
- 84 -                            Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.       Bank Input into Key Activities.  In addition to regular supervision
needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc., the field supervision staff requirements are stated in Table 1.
2.       Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.  A Project Implementation
Committee will be formed to monitor the progress of policy implementation,
investment program and procurement and disbursement components financed by the
loan. Progress reports will be submitted every quarter by NPC, PNOC on the
progress of their investment component, and the Office of Energy Affairs on
the entire sector operation.
3.       The Office of Energy Affairs will be responsible for coordinating
arrangements for Bank supervision missions.
4.       Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings will
normally be chaired by the Executive Director of the Office of Energy Affairs.



ANNEX 3.12
- 85 -                           Page 2 of 2
PHILIPPINE: ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Table 1: BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate Date
(month/year)            Activity               Expected Skill Requirements   SW
6/90          Review of investment
program, determination
of components for Bank
financing in 1991, super-
vision of project imple-
mentation.                          A,B,C,D                 6
12/90          Supervision mission                 A,C,D,E                 6
6/91          Review of investment
program, determination of
components for Bank
financing in 1992, super-
vision of project imple-
mentation.                          A,B,C,D                 6
12/91          Supervision mission                 A,C,D,E                 6
6/92          Review of investment
program, determination of
components for Bank
financing in 1993, super-
vision of project imple-
mentation.                          A,B,C,D                 6
12/92          Supervision mission                 A,C,D,E                 6
1993          Two supervision missions            A,B,C,D/A,C,D,E        12
1994          Mission to prepare PCR              A,C,D                   4
Notes: (A) Economist, (B) Financial Analyst, (C) Geothermal Specialist,
(D) Power Engineer, (E) Environmental Specialist.



- 86 -
ANNEX 4.1
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost for Hydro Candidates
Average incremental cost (AIC) for hydro computed on the basis of:
Discount rate   12.00S p.a.
Plant life       50 years
Fixed O&M        $0.46/kW/yr
Installed  Annual  Capacity  Construc-  Capital   P.V.   Lev. gen.
Site         capacity   energy   factor   tion time   cost    factor    cost
(MS)     (GWh)      (2)      (years)   ($/kW)    (2)    (cts/kWh)
Pantay           23       153      75.94       6.00    2,872.50  36.24       7.09
San Roque       390     1,214      35.53       7.00    1,187.20  43.70       6.61
Casecnan        268     1,379      58.74       5.00    1,829.70  29.23       5.54
Abra            174        718     47.11       6.00    2,000.50  36.24       7.96
Diduyon         352        957     31.04       5.00    1,015.80  29.23       5.83
BalogBalog       33         99     34.07       6.00    1,769.10  36.24       9.74
Agos (Kaliva)  140         623     50.77       6.00    3,444.40  36.24    12.72
Matuno          180        528     33.49       5.00    1,715.00  29.23       9.11
Gened           600     1,632      31.05       8.00    1,441.10  51.66       9.69



- 87 -
ANNEX 4.1
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
AIC for Thermal/Geothermal Candidates
Discount rate       12Z p.a.
Case           Description
1             Imported coal plant
2             Semirara coal plant
3             Luzon geothermal
4             Tongonan geothermal, generation only
4A            Tongonan geothermal with HVDC stage I
4B            Torgonan geothermal with HVDC stage II
4C            Tongonan geothermal with HVDC both stages
4D            Tongonan geothermal with HVAC stage I
4E            Tongonan geothermal with HVAC stage II
4F            Tongonan geothermal with HVAC both stages
5             Oil
Con-                                                         Rel-
utruc-                                                        tive
Capa- Capital  tion   P.V.                    Mainte-             Lev. gen.   to
Case   city   cost    time  factor HMot rate  FOR   nanc-   Fixed OUM   cost    coas 1
(MW)  (81kW)   (yr.)  (X)   (kca I /kWh)  (X)  (day3/yr)  (8/kW/mo)  (cts/kWh)  (X)
1     300    760.00  4.50   26.89   2,390    9.0    56           1.26       8.46     100
2     300    800.00  4.60   26.89   2,390    9.0    S6           1.33       4.60     130
3      56    579.90  4.00   22.84   4,031    4.0        85       0.68       2.90      84
4     460    640.39  4.00   22.84   4,031    4.0        3S       0.63       2.26     a6
4A    460  1,095.95  4.00   22.64   4,031    4.0        86       0.63       3.37      97
48    460    807.06  4.00   22.64   4,031    4.0        85       0.63       2.79      81
4C    460    951.60  4.00   22.64   4,031    4.0        86       0.63       3.08      89
4D    450    962.61  4.00   22.64   4,031    4.0        8S       0.63       3.10      90
4E    450    684.83  4.00   22.64   4,031    4.0        35       0.63       2.35      es
4F    450    773.72  4.00   22.64   4,031    4.0        35       0.63       2.72      79
5     800    625.00  4.00   22.84   2,390    7.0        40       1.04       4.32     126



- 88 -
ANNEX 4.2
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Generation Expansion Candidates for Least-Cost Analysis
Gas turbine                         GT50         50 MW            Unlimited
Luzon geothermal                    LGEO         55 MW            10 units
Leyte geothermal                    TGEO        450 MW            Per stage,  2 stages
Imported coal                       ICOL        300 MW            Unlimited
Local coal                          LCOL        300 MW            Unlimited
Kalayaan PS 3 and 4                 PSTR        300 MW            Modelled as one unit
Luzon hydro candidates              VHYD                          (Pantay is committed)
Capa-       Foreign       Corstrut.       factor     P.V. of camital cost
Nam,              city         coat         tion ti:-       .X p.a.)   Total    Local   Foreagn
(MW)     /kW    XT-cTal   (year'         (#)       -------- (/kW) ---------
Thermal
CT60             SO       800.0   19.6       2..         18.60        840.6      60.8    278.7
LOEO             65       579.9  86.8        4.0         22.64        711.2    254.8    466.9
TGEO            450       961.6   25.0       4.0         22.64      1,166.9   291.7    876.2
ICOL            800       774.9   18.7       4.5         26.89        976.6    184.0    641.6
LCOL            800       024.9   13.7       4.6         26.89      1,088.6    142.7    696.8
Hydro
PFijntay           28    2,827.6    7.2        6.0         86.24      8,913.4    281.8  8,682.1
San Roqu-       890    1,:67.2   40.5        7.0         48.70      1,708.1    691.2  1,014.9
Casocnan        268    1,829.7   41.4        6.0         29.23      2,864.6    979.8  1,885.8
Abra            175    2,000.5   47.1        6.0         86.24      2,726.5  1,282.8  1,442.7
Dtduyon         862       985.0   42.9       5.0         29.28      1,208.8    617.8    690.5
BalogBalog       38    1,?09.1   89.7        6.0         88.24      2,410.2    956.2  1,454.0
Agos Kallwa     140    8,' 4.4   10.6        6.0         86.24      4,692.6    496.8  4,196.8
Matuno          180    1,,16.0   28.7        5.0         29.28      2,216.8    688.8  1,679.6
Gened           600    1,441.1   42.0        8.0         61.68      2,186.8    918.8  1,267.8
Pumped Storage
PSTR            800       626.8   80.6       2.0         10.68        581.2    178.0    403.2



- 89 -
ANNEX 4.2
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Fuel Prices
($/MM BTU)
Heavy                          Diesel                     Imported
Year           fuel oil          Z p.a.          oil       2 p.a.           coal       Z p.a.
1987             2.43          -  3.16          -1.21         -
1988             2.16           -11.10           2.81      -11.10           1.21        0.00
1989             2.13             -1.56          2.76       -1.56           1.29        6.25
1990             2.30              8.19          2.99        8.19           1.36        5.88
1991             2.42              5.05          3.14        5.05           1.44        5.56
1992             2.54              5.05          3.30        5.05           1.52        5.26
1993             2.67              5.05          3.47        5.05           1.52        0.00
1994             2.80              5.05          3.64        5.05           1.52        0.00
1995             2.94              5.05          3.82        5.05           1.52        0.00
1996             3.03              3.12          3.94        3.12           1.53        1.00
1997             3.13              3.12          4.07        3.12           1.55        1.00
1998             3.23              3.12          4.19        3.12           1.56        1.00
1999             3.33              3.12          4.32        3.12           1.58        1.00
2000             3.43              3.12          4.46        3.12           1.59        1.00
2001             3.46              1.00          4.50        1.00           1.61        1.00
Luzon geothermal                    $1.02/MM Btu
Tongonan geothermal                 $0.67/MH Btu
Semirara coal                       $2.53/MM Btu



ANNEX 4.3
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Calculation of the Internal Economic Rate of Return
Investment cost (US$ million)
Resource development         Ceneratinp plant                 T a D&&  Cost OSM)  Total  Incr   Incr.L!   Net
Foreign                    Fore;gn                    Fi  gn                            Other   cost   gen       rev   benefit
Year   Local   exchange   Total Local   exchange   Total Local  exchainge  Total Total  Fuel   0 A M   (SM)   (GWH)   (SM)                (3M)
1989     0.0       0.0        0.0   24.8    108.8      133.4    0.3      2.2       2.6  135.9   34.4    0.3   170.6        657    28.1  -142.4
1990     4.6      17.0       21.6   26.3      88.1     112.3    2.9      6.7       9.8  143.6   34.9    3.2   181.6   1,6e2    66.8  -114.7
1991     6.3      19.7       26.0   36.2    141.0      177.2    2.2      4.5       6.7  208.9   48.8    6.A   284.2   2,710   116.9  -148.2
1992    38.5      83.8      122.1   54.9    321.1      376.1   13.1    16.8       29.7  627.9   83.2   15.1   828.2   6,885   251.8  -374.3
1993    17.7      34.3       52.0   19.3      81.4      80.7    2.2      5.1       7.2  139.9   83.2   16.2   238.3   6,704   286.8    48.6
1994    93.0    176.0       268.9   88.6    230.7      299.4    6.3    16.1       20.3  588.6   83.2   24.7   696.5   9,571   409.5  -288.9
1996    70.0    166.4       238.4   83.8    280.8      384.6   53.9   423.0    476.81,077.8   83.2   49.6 1,210.5  13,267  657.2  -643.2
1996    69.5    188.6      238.1  195.0    490.9       885.9   27.0   248.1    273.11,197.1   83.2   68.7   134.9  17,855   764.0  -584.9
1997     0.0       0.0        0.0   46.4    480.9      627.3   12.3    19.8       32.0  669.3  162.1   78.8    79.0  21,634   921.4   131.4
1998     0.0       0.0        0.0   43.2    488.6      638.8   11.9    65.6       87.8  604.3  221.0   89.3   914.6  25,261 1,080.5   165.9
1999     0.0       0.0        0.0   56.1    689.0      824.0    2.7      8.5       9.2  833.3  290.6   98.8 1,022.5  29,587 1,266.0   243.5
2000     0.0       0.0        0.0   83.6    694.9      658.5   14.9    20.5       35.3  693.9  360.1  108.4 1,162.4  33,993 1,454.5   292.1
2001     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    360.1  108.4   468.5  33,993 1,454.5   988.0
2002     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   488.6  33,993 1,464.5   988.0
2003     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   488.5  33,993 1,464.5   986.0
2004     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   488.6  33,993 1,464.5   986.0
2006     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    360.1  108.4   4e8.6  33,993 i,464.6   988.0
2006     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    360.1  108.4   488.6  33,993 1,464.5   988.0
2007     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   468.5  33,933 1,A54.5   986.0
2008     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   468.5  33,993 1,454.5   988.0
2009     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -            360.1  108.4   468.5  33,993 1,454.5   986.0
2010     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    360.1  108.4   468.6  33,993 1,454.6   986.0
2011     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   468.5  33,993 1,464.5   988.0
2012     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  10R.4   488.6  33,993 1,464.6   986.0
2013     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   488.6  33,993 1,464.6   988.0
2014     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   488.6  33,993 1,464.6   988.0
2016     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   468.5  33,993 1,454.6   986.0
2016     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   468.5  33,993 1,454.5   986.0
2017     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    8O.1  108.4   488.6  33,993 1,464.6   986.0
2018     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    360.1  108.4   488.6  33,993 1,464.5   988.0
2019     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   488.5  33,993 1,454.5   988.0
2020     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   468.5  33,993 1,464.6   986.0
2021     -         --                -         -         -       -       -         -      -    30.1  108.4   4B8.6  33,993 1,454.6   988.0
2022     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   468.5  33,993 1,464.6   988.0
2023     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   468.6  33,993 1,464.6   988.0
2024     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    380.1  108.4   468.6  33,993 1,464.6   988.0
2026     -         -          -      -         -         -       -       -         -      -    360.1  108.4   488.5  33,993 1,464.6   988.0
IRR        17.42
/a Based on average tariff rate of P 1.0/Kwh and station use and transmission loss of 8%.



- 91 -
ANNEX 4.4
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Plant Rehabilitation
NPV         Diff.  Diff.   Levelized
Plant             (US$M)       (US$M)   (Z)   cost (t/kWh)            Description
Rockwell
Case I          393.00        56.75  16.88       5.65      No rehabilitation
Case II         356.30        20.05   5.96       5.12      Rehab w/o additional repairs
Case III        374.32        38.07  11.32       5.38      Rehab with additional repairs
Case IV         336.25         0.00   0.00       4.83      New unit
Sucat 1
Case I          292.77        77.10  35.75       5.05      No rehebilitation
Case II         215.67         0.00   0.00       3.72      Two-stage rehabilitation
Case III        224.26         8.59   3.98       3.87      Full rehabilitation
Case IV         280.21        64.54  29.92       4.83      New unit
Sucat 2
Case I          385.46      106.57  38.21        4.98      No rehabilitation
Case II         278.90         0.00   0.00       3.61     'Two-stage rehabilitation
Case III        288.73         9.84   3.53       3.73      Single-stage rehabilitation
Case IV         373.61        94.72  33.96       4.83      New unit
Sucat 3
Case I          399.00       12i.02  43.54       5.16      No rehabilitation
Case II         277.97         0.0    0.00       3.59      Two-stage rehabilitation
Case III        287.67         9.70   3.49       3.72      Single-stage rehabilitation
Case IV         373.61        95.64  34.41       4.83      New unit
Sucat 4
Case I          583.96       135.8?  30.32       5.03      No rehabilitation
Case II         448.08         0.00   0.00       3.86      Two-stage rehabilitation
Case III        481.02       32.94   7.35        4.15      Full rehabilitation
Case IV         561.36       113.27  25.28       4.84      New unit
Bataan 1
Case I          115.98        25.80  28.61       4.00      No rehabilitation
Case II          90.18         0.00   0.00       3.11      Rehabilitation
Case III         91.00         0.82   0.90       3.14      Rehabilitation, with spares
Case IV         133.16        42.97  47.65       4.59      New unit
Bataan 2
Case I          192.65         9.56   5.22       3.32      No rehabilitation
Case II         183.10         0.00   0.00       3.16      Rehabilitation
Case III        184.13         1.04   0.57       3.17      Rehabilitation, with spares
Case IV         266.31        83.21  45.45       4.59      New unit
Manila 1 & 2
Case I          326.15        71.19  27.92       4.22      No rehabilitation
Case II         254.96         0.00   0.00       3.30      Rehabilitation
Case III        255.41         0.45   0.18       3.30      Rehabilitation, with spares
Case IV         374.24       119.27  46.78       4.84      New unit



- 92 -
ANNEX 5.1
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents A-ailable in the Project File
1.       Statement of Energy Policy by the Government, May 1989.
2.       The Text of Executive Orders, various dates.
3.       Detailed Cost Estimates for Geothermal Resource Development, PNOC,
July 1989.
4.       Detailed Implementation Schedule for Geothermal Resource Development,
PNOC, July 1989.
5.       Detailed Implementation Schedule for Power Plants and transmission
line construction, NPC, July 1989.
6.       Detailed Least Cost Analysis for the Power Generating Capacity, NPC,
June 1988.
7.       Electricity Demand Forecast to 2000, NPC, June 1988.
8.       Energy Demand in the Philippines, OEA, 1989.



120-                                                                                                 124                                                 128-
P H I L I P P I N E S
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
20-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
ENERGY RESOURCES
A      Geothermal appraisal / delineation l-cations
*     Geothermal sites under exploration
*     Existing geothermal power projects in operation
I      Cool development and production
Cou  2  Coal exploration
|                                                    Hydro-electric plants
Future hydro-electric plant
Lt12UON                                 --  Faults
AmbokloMo agot                                            - -    International bourndaries
Bingo
_Cosecnan
6-                                                                   I      Pontobongan                         Kiloieters 0        100         200         300
N  I       AMosiwoy                             Mites
Balungo~ #~.                                                                    1                   0
*Mt. Pinatubo\                ~                   Mobile Zone
Angot
Mariveles                 KonMania
EM olayon 05
* McikbC4ranya
Botocan      *Del Gallego
*Mobini                                      Bori
\      Tiwi U
Montelogo 9                                           ito tGeothermal Power Project
&WOcon - Manito 11
M /NDORO
OBuluson
12'                                                                       X t                                           SAMAR                                           12-
r                 PA NAY
aPA MNAY                        \    To*ngonan
Mambucol9
PALAWAN                                                               \ \ Polinpinon I
P R,linpinon H
Aguson
r                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agus                    8-
.      M/NDANAO
QHI1NA                                                                X                       9                t:  Pulongi IV
VIET NAM          IWON                                                                                                    \
PHI- PINES\
'              ~~~~~V/5AVA5A\
PAIA WAN                                                                                                                  \
MIN/VAANAO
BRUNFI
MALAYSIA  Vm  a  u tm  rerdSiTesus tusna num      dc,to,ee
~~)   ~~  -. j                                                      fire readnru and e eectuo0y ~~~~~~~~~~furf.l eterna onf The WtrWfiMad flt htraoiio
Fina.nce Crneraron Tri,,d os usd _ r udi _ir Ol er S-p do -at1              ni
r                                                                                                      r N  D O  N  E S    Aalr olM e Wood firsdw   ir ire ,r-aIsraravar Flaroc olr  any snr,en  10
-  INDONESIA                                          on  spai Otarait airy territory  airy eirdaruoirrerir ttiretirion of noon Sdrardnees~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



lot
*                                                                       PHILIPPINES
* ongoC4loons                                                     ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
GRID MAP OF NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
UNDER      1989999
EXISTING    CONS        -ESMEN
/  Ussnossltll        IKr_T ET                                                                          POWER PLANTS-
B   t                                 * 1!)       C1<H)                   * H}       H} Qr 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   )  I J
«Ssn Esos    8 Essy      |E*IG)                                                        l(GI      U(GI       GeOThe
HId I  *1C1                         *IC1       Cool Thoi
EIGI J  *(o)gOil Theel
IM(lktsoo                                               HID)                                            DiTese
TRANSMISSION LINES
Esuso-pBngq)   so                                                                             500 kV
230 kV
NCC
lAsOds,        N      (H) 101         H- _- -                                                                                   15-138 kv
PONK< nEC                                                                                     5         zSRRSI TNS-            1
Isysy   *                                               0*          0           0                       230 kV
L    U     7     O      N                                                       0            0           6          115-138 kV
fl                                                                            Fod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-lites is be UpgrsOde
''sCuso 101   seeso                                               ---ngah H } - . Internstisns! ,          EsEisig Ihydrs pso  stoi
Olongop4                                                                      Osodtes                      Esrsg 230 kV  b,tis-iior
gAsosolil                                            0          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Esising 185-138 kV os-itis-
Glosssps  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~,e                                               0 ~~~~~      115-138 kV  bobsisis  undsr
Ss~~ss  Tsssnses'                                                            ssnstrustisn~"' CZ
PNPP       lOIT'oos     Is'pO(s                                                                 A           Osio,ng 69 kV sebstotsow. (only
OssO 0oKH   G       IssI                                                                                psoject r bststisns ore bsssn)
9920         tknn *-EsIs,ssHI
-14'                                                              G                                                                                                                                  s
Nsos                   U *BsILIH)
MINDORO                                                  cD                -sMonito(G)
MASBATE
.SAMAR
IDE
PANAYA T.-
Dmgt4 1(D)                              rel      *rojG
D- Lo D                                      11;   LEYTE
CEBU
PALAWAN                                                                              i                 ,brsbd
PssP.- P,,ses
covwt  !                  ~~BOHOL
D  A)  8!o  120  1  K.10.ETERSosy?                                             I                        8110
M bzno*            ri~~Tslgbsbon<Dl
NEGROS .,ses'sss'se            * lLs                               -      l
IDi%pol,,pioo ~      ~          ~          NID
Nb-s
ThesssE esE neE ses v                                                                                                                      u -         _    Bonon 
w E_ coe ol v                                                                                          tApEr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(DI
0 s  o551 95555 o                                                                                                                      s-  ' 5
810X T OW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                  O         e    EEr AgI -\
pos Vs m pAs rls ss esr                                         z-Ass,s    '                                                  rIs)slong,111
-b'    vEsssIssrsvss"sos                                                                Kokosslss   __-~~~~s <>s                 L  ID H NM   1       Plnl NHDNA                                  a'
o v rev V                                r --~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -            s--wv     v«        >           |                     v~~~~~~EGso 
0    20    D0   6D         00     rDO MILES                                sn9                                                    Nv g        /          N.    /
Or20'                                                                                                                            |            ,H) IDDE
INDONESIA olTHvs



