Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15657
IPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN NOS. 3163-PH, 3164-PH, 3165-PH)
May 23, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                Philippine Peso (P)
P1.00                 100 Centavos (ctv.)
(end-July 1989)      =        US$ 1.00 = P 21.5
(end-Dec 1995)                US$1.00 = P 26.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kV       =        Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kW        =        Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
kWh        =        Kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
MW         =        Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
MWh                  Megawatt-hour (1,000 kilowatt-hours)
GW                 Gigawatt (million kilowatts)
GWh        =        Gigawatt-hours (million kilowatt-hours)
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of the Philippines
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT           -      Built-Own-Transfer
BOOT          -      Build Own-Operate-Transfer
DENR          -      Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOE           -      Department of Energy
ECC           -      Energy Coordinating Council
EMB           -      Environmental Management Bureau
ERB           -      Energy Regulatory Board
ERR           -      Economic Rate of Return
GOP           -      Government of the Philippines
JEximbank    -       Export Import Bank of Japan
ICB           -      International Competitive Bidding
IPP           -      Independent Power Producer
NEA           -      National Electrification Administration
NPC           -      National Power Corporation
OEA           -      Office of Energy Affairs
PNOC          -      Philippine National Oil Company
PNOC-EDC    -        PNOC-Energy Development Corporation
ROM           -      Rehabilitate-Operate-Maintain



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ....................................................i
Evaluation Summary ................................................... ii
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.      Statement/Evaluation of Objectives. 
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                .3
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project                         .6
D.  Project Sustainability                                .8
E. Bank Performance                                     .8
F. Borrower Performance                                    .9
G. Assessment of Outcome .10
H. Future Operations .10
1.  Key Lessons Learned .10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES ...........................                                       12
1 .  Summary of Assessment .12
2. Related Bank Loans .15
3. Project Timetable                                   .16
4.      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                .16
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
6.   Key Indicators for Project Operation .20
7.  Studies Included in Project .22
8A. Project Costs .24
8B. Project Financing .25
9.  Economic Costs and Benefits .26
10. Status of Legal Covenants .27
11.    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .30
12.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .30
13. Bank Resources: Missions .31
ANNEX B: SECTOR SPECIFIC DATA ..................................................              33
1.     Cumulative Actual and Planned Generating Capacity ......................................... 33
2.      Phases of Power Sector Restructuring and Privatization ..................................... 34
APPENDICES
A.      Mission's Aide-Memoire ..................................................     35
B.      Borrowers' Contributions to the ICR ..................................................  36
MAPS
IBRD No. 21900: Energy Resources
IBRD No. 21901: National Power Corporation Grid
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan nos. 3163-PH, 3164-PH, 3165-PH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy Sector Project (the
Project) in the Republic of Philippines, for which US$390 million equivalent, was approved on February 1,
1990 and made effective on June 12, 1990. The Project provided for three Bank loans for: (a) the
National Power Corporation (NPC) for US$200 million (Loan no. 3163-PH); (b) the Philippine National
Oil Company (PNOC) for US$150 million (Loan no. 3164-PH); and (c) the Government of the
Philippines (the Government) for US$40 million (Loan no. 3165-PH).
Loan 3163-PH to the National Power Corporation closed on June 30, 1995 compared to the
original closing date of December 31, 1994. The Loan is fully disbursed and final transaction took place on
February 23, 1995.
Loan 3164-PH to the Philippines National Oil Company was closed on December 31,
1995, compared to the original closing date of December 31, 1994. Apart from partial cancellation of some
US$10.7 million equivalent, being earmarked for on-lending to Petron, the loan was fully disbursed and
final transaction took place on April 15, 1996.
Loan 3165-PH to the Republic of the Philippines was closed on April 30, 1996, compared
to the original closing date of December 31, 1994. Some US$8.7 million equivalent was canceled and final
transaction took place on February 3, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Ephrem Asebe, Consultant, EA31N, under the supervision of
John Irving, Senior Power Engineer, Infrastructure Operations Division of the East Asia & Pacific Region,
Country Department 1. It was reviewed by Mr. J. Shivakumar, Chief, Infrastructure Operations Division,
and Mr. Walter Schwermer, Project Adviser.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in October 1995 followed by an ICR mission in
February 1996. It is based on material in the project file as well as data provided by the Borrower. The
Borrowers contributed to the preparation of the ICR by stating their views as reflected in the mission's
Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), and by preparing their own evaluation of the Project's execution (Appendix
B). The Borrower agencies have also commented on this ICR, and their comments were taken into
consideration when finalizing it.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan nos. 3163-PH, 3164-PH, 3165-PH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.           Bank involvement in the Philippine energy sector dates back to 1957. Bank lending
in the sector was limited until 1981, at which time the Bank began lending to support various energy
subsectors, including geothermal. In 1988, the Bank conducted a comprehensive Energy Sector
Study in an effort to identify how the Government and the Bank could jointly work to address
weaknesses in that sector, and The Energy Sector Project (1989) was conceived to support this effort.
The Project involved eight beneficiaries and included three Bank loans totaling US$390 million to
the National Power Corporation (NPC), the Philippine National Oil Corporation (PNOC), and four
separate entities in the Government. Repayment will be over 20 years, including a five year grace
period, at the Bank's variable interest rate. (paras. 1-3)
Project Objectives
ii.          The Project had two distinct but complementary objectives. The first objective
concerned the implementation of the energy sector development program, which had a number of
facets: increasing sector coordination, adopting a least-cost development strategy, strengthening the
pricing regime, encouraging private sector participation, improving environmental standards, and
enhancing institutional development. The second objective was to finance a time-slice of the energy
sector investment program for the period 1989-93. (paras. 4-6)
iii.         The objectives of the Project were extensive as their scope was sector-wide;
however, they had been carefully thought out and were directly relevant to the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy. They were also responsive to the desire of the Government to explore
alternative ways to manage the sector. The Project was demanding on all parties involved. (paras. 7-
10)
Implementation Experience and Results
iv           The Project substantially achieved its objectives, despite initial problems reconciling
the least-cost development objectives with increased private sector participation (particularly
regarding NPC) and reshaping the geothermal drilling program. The time-slice of the 1989-93
investment program had to undergo some revisions to induce the Independent Power Producers
(IPPs) to participate in the fast-track generation program in 1991-93. This development, while costly
to the sector, proved critical to ending the power crisis and, in so doing, restored the economic health
of the economy as a whole. Moreover, as the number of IPPs increased and the power crisis eased,
NPC was able to negotiate more favorable contract terms.  Encouraged by such results, the
Government accelerated the program for the privatization of NPC's various operations in its 1992
Energy Section Action Plan (ESAP). The role of NPC was thus redefined. Its role would no longer
be as a generator of power, but as a purchaser of power (mainly on a take-or-pay basis) and as an
operator of the transmission system. (paras. 11 - 13)



iii
v.            PNOC  benefited from  a small technical assistance component to facilitate
privatization of its subsidiaries. PNOC-EDC (PNOC-Energy Development Corporation) received a
substantial amount of the loan proceeds to conduct geothermal exploration. After disappointing
results in Luzon, PNOC-EDC shifted its focus to Leyte, and with the support of two subsequent Bank
loans, is successfully exploiting Leyte's geothermal resources. Petron successfully upgraded two
facilities at its refi.nery under the Project. (paras. 13, 18 and 19)
vi.           The management of the country's energy sector changed significantly under the
Project. In 1992, the defunct Department of Energy (DOE) was restored to give the energy sector
cabinet-level representation. Further changes saw the folding of Office of Energy Affairs (OEA)
into DOE and a substantial reorganization of DOE itself. While these institutional changes did not in
themselves result in the improvements in sector-wide coordination as envisioned under the Project;
nevertheless, the power crisis served as a catalyst in bringing the Philippine entities together to solve
the problem. The Project also enhanced the efficiency and capabilities of entities in the sector by
funding several topical studies in the sector, by upgrading hardware and software, and by providing
additional staff training. The Energy Regulatory Board (ERB) acquired new capabilities to discharge
its responsibilities with respect to inspecting and enforcing conformity to standards of metering
equipment, petroleum products, etc. ERB also acquired computer hardware and software under the
Project. The Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) also enhanced the skills and tools it needed
to monitor the environmental impact of energy projects. The Project also succeeded in providing
stop-gap technical assistance to National Electrification Administration (NEA) and the rural
electrical cooperatives, in advance of a subsequent Bank project. (paras. 13 and 20)
vii.          Project sustainability. Project sustainability appears likely. The country's power
crisis has been resolved, the macro situation has stabilized, and the energy sector looks set to enjoy
orderly energy growth with cost optimization. Moreover, a number reforms in the pipeline will act
to carry forward the process of orderly energy growth. (paras. 30-33)
viii.         Project costs and financing. Due to NPC's decision to enter into BOT arrangements
with IPPs to increase generating capacity, and because of PNOC-EDC's poor results in prospecting
for geothermal developments in Luzon, total project costs were only about US$2.6 billion, or 80% of
the original planned. The Bank disbursed US$373 million through its three loans, or 96% of the full
amount. The original closing dates of these loans were extended by 6 to 16 months (see Preface,
Annex A: Tables lb, 4a-c, 8A and 8B). JEximbank, which was providing parallel financing, is
expected to disburse about US$62 million by end-1996, against US$150 million which was made
available. (para. 14)
ix.           Factors affecting project objectives. The major factors affecting the achievement of
Project objectives were mainly those subject to the control of the Government or the implementing
agencies, and the risks associated with exploration. At the Government level, the main factors
affecting the achievement of Project objectives included tradeoffs between the pursuit of a least-cost
or a fast-track strategy, the politicization of tariff adjustments, the weak financial position of NPC,
and delayed budgetary allocations to ERB and EMB. NPC's failure to revalue its assets also
contributed to its financial problems, and its organizational weakness compounded them. PNOC-
EDC tended to be overly optimistic, both in planning for the number of wells to be drilled at
geothermal sites in Luzon and in estimating the power capacity from the geothermal steam these
were to provide. The original program had to be revised drastically downwards mid-way through the
project cycle and the geographical focus had to be shifted to Leyte, a move which helped utilize the
loan allocation. (paras. 22-29)



iv
x.            Bank and Borrower performance.  Bank performance through all stages of the
project cycle was satisfactory. This performance was particularly noteworthy regarding the design of
the Project, the assistance rendered to NPC during its financial crisis, and the close working
relationship with PNOC-EDC. Overall, the Borrowers also performed satisfactorily. However,
NPC's failure to deal with its financial weaknesses and its absorption in pursuing private investment,
led to problems and delays, especially at the on-set. PNOC-EDC's optimism over geothermal
potential also impacted Project performance. (paras. 34-38)
xi.           Project outcogm. Overall, the Project outcome was satisfactory. The matrix in
Annex A, Table IB outlines the core factors and justifies this assessment. (para. 39)
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
xii.          Findings:
(a)    The Philippines provides an example of how, under the right conditions, private
investment in power generation can be forthcoming and how market forces help secure contracts
with fair terms for both sides. In due time, most of the commercial risks should be borne by private
investors, and the power development program should suitable accommodate independent power
production. Such programs will be useful to investors, and further benefit would be derived by
periodic market surveys of energy demand and growth. (paras. 32 and 43)
(b)    A focal point is necessary within a government to conduct energy policy. It should
be the center for planning, guidance, monitoring, coordination and strategy development. (para. 13)
(c)    Those institutions which manage the environmental and regulatory aspects of the
energy sector would gain a better appreciation of their tasks and discharge them more effectively with
greater exposure to external developments and expertise. (para. 13)
(d)    Until petroleum prices and power tariffs are deregulated and operate in a competitive
climate, their determination and adjustment should be a transparent process. (paras. 13 and 25)
xii.          Future operatin.  DOE has mapped out a comprehensive restructuring of the
energy sector, to consolidate the gains made so far regarding institutional strengthening, generation
and transmission, coordination, and to prepare for an eventually restructured and competitive
environment. (para. 40)
xiii.         Key lessons learned. To the lessons inherent in the findings above, the following
should be added:
(a)    Effective supervision is critical to project success, and projects could benefit from
more innovative approaches. Supervision could be made into a more proactive exercise, for
instance, by considering supervision as part of an ICR exercise and trying to apply any lessons
learned during the course of the project, where they would be of immediate use. (para. 45)
(b)    For the Bank, a feature of a sector loan as distinguished from a subsector individual
project loan is the dialogue at the macro policy and central level, which is important too. A judicious
and overlapping mix of both types is desirable.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan nos. 3163-PH, 3164-PH, 3165-PH)
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.           Background. Bank involvement in the Philippine energy sector dates back to 1957.
Bank lending in the sector was limited until 1981, at which time the Bank began lending to support
various energy subsectors, including geothermal. In 1988, the Bank conducted a comprehensive
Energy Sector Study in an effort to identify how the Government and the Bank could jointly work to
address weaknesses in that sector. The findings of the Study proved very useful in assisting the
Government in devising its Statement of Energy Policy (1989) and in formulating an agreed strategy
for a five-year, least-cost development program for the sector.
2.           The Energy Sector Project (1989) was conceived to support this development
program, and also drew heavily on the work of the Energy Sector Study. The Project provided for
three Bank loans totaling US$390 million for: (a) the National Power Corporation (NPC) for
US$200 million (Loan no. 3163-PH); (b) the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC) for US$150
million (Loan no. 3164-PH); and (c) the Government of the Philippines (the Government) for US$40
million (Loan no. 3165-PH). There were four beneficiary agencies in the Government: the Energy
Regulatory Board (ERB); the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) within the Department of
Environmental and Natural Resources (DENR); the National Electrification Administration (NEA);
and the Office of Energy Affairs (OEA), which was later subsumed into the Department of Energy
(DOE) in 1992.
3.           Repayment will be over 20 years, including a five year grace period, at the Bank's
variable interest rate. The Government passed on US$17.8 million of the proceeds of its loan to
EMB, ERB, and OEA as budgetary contributions, and made US$22.2 million available to NEA as an
equity contribution. PNOC on-lent US$147.0 million to PNOC-EDC and Petron on the same terms
as the Bank loan, with PNOC-EDC and Petron bearing the foreign exchange risk.
4.           Project Objectives. The Project had two distinct but complementary objectives.
The first objective concerned the implementation of the energy sector development program. This
program aimed at (a) developing a sector-wide capability to increase energy resources and
coordinate policy implementation; (b) adopting a least-cost development strategy for energy
development; (c) strengthening regulatory activities for rational consumer energy pricing and
improving product and service standards; (d) encouraging private sector participation through joint
ventures and other schemes; (e) improving environmental standards and monitoring in areas of high
energy use or resource development; and (f) enhancing the technical capabilities of sector
institutions.
5.           The second objective was to finance a time-slice of the energy sector investment
program, for which each of the beneficiary institutions prepared its respective five-year investment
program. Of the planned total of investments of US$3,509.2 million during the period 1989-93, the
proposed expenditure of NPC was the highest (77.6%), followed by PNOC (21.1%), NEA (0.8%),



2
EMB (0.3%), DOE (0.1%) and ERB (0.1%). Bank loans under the Project were to provide 11.1% of
the total investment. Loans from JEximbank were to finance a further 4.2%, and would be disbursed
under a parallel financing arrangement with the Bank. The balance of 84.7% was to be financed
through internal cash generation and from additional borrowings.
6.           Project Components. The Project was to finance, inter alia, imported equipment
and materials required for geothermal field development, power plant construction, power
transmission and distribution, rural electrification, modernization of office and laboratory equipment
of sector institutions, training, technical assistance, and a number of studies. In terms of physical
work, the Project was to finance the development of 610 MW of geothermal resources, 1,650 MW of
power generation capacity, and substantial expansion in transmission and distribution systems. In
terms of policy and institutional reform, the Project was designed to redirect the country's energy
development strategy.
7.           Evaluation of Objectives. The objectives of the Project were the result of extensive
dialogue between the Government and the Bank on issues raised by the Energy Sector Study. They
were conceived subsequent to the election of a new Government in 1986, which was seeking
alternative ways to manage the sector, and which abolished the Ministry of Energy in an effort to
avoid concentrating too much power in the hands of a single Minister. The objectives were manifest
in the Government's Statement of Energy Policy, which recognized that projects in the energy sector
had intricate linkages with each other and with the sector as a whole and, further, that such linkages
had implications to the overall health of the country. The sector institutions involved in the Project
recognized that for their components to be viable, the sector program as a whole would have to
succeed.
8.           The Project was by nature complex, demanding and optimistic. It encompassed a
wide range of policy and institutional issues, and included three IBRD loans and one JEximbank loan
involving eight separate beneficiaries.  Moreover, the implementation capabilities of these
institutions were not initially known, as most of them had no recent experience handling sizable
investment projects. In addition, the availability of additional sources of financing for the entire
sector investment program was uncertain (para. 5). The BOT arrangements which came into vogue
subsequent to the approval of the Project added to its complexity. In practical terms, NPC had little
control over the choice and siting of BOT plants, and had to react quickly to accommodate changes
to such plans. Also, because BOT financing arrangements incorporated new risk considerations, it
was difficult to assess the long-term economic viability of this privatization policy.  These factors
could alone or together impact on the timely implementation and disbursement of the Bank loans,
and were outside of Bank control.
9.           The objectives of the Project were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The CAS aimed to revitalize economic growth, improve the efficiency of public
corporations, and accelerate privatization. The Project stands as an example of how the Bank was
able to influence the direction of a sector far exceeding its relative financial contribution.
10.          The Project was responsive to changes in the Government's priorities regarding
macroeconomic strategy and sector policy reforms. The design of the Project afforded flexibility in
financing components of the energy sector development program. Uncertainty with regard to the
availability of other external sources of financing, especially the unsecured part, was recognized at
the outset, and financing arrangements were so designed to allow the beneficiaries options in shifting
around timings for World Bank/JEximbank financing, depending upon procurement policy



3
considerations. Accordingly, the loan agreements for PNOC and NPC prepared annual rolling
investment and financing plans.
B. Achievement of Objectives
11.          Overall.  The Project has substantially achieved its objectives, despite initial
problems faced by (a) two sub-objectives with regard to introducing a least-cost power development
strategy in the energy sector and encouraging greater private sector participation (especially with
regard to NPC); and (b) the reshaping of the PNOC-EDC geothermal drilling program.
12.          Macroeconomic policies. The Project contributed to the revitalization of the energy
sector and improved the efficiency and capabilities of key sectoral entities (particularly NPC), all of
which benefited the economic recovery of the country. These were important objectives of the
Philippine CAS.
13.          Sectoral and institutional policy objectives. The Project achieved its primary
sectoral and institutional policy objectives, albeit, after initial delays. An examination of the
separate sectoral and institutional policy components of the objectives follows:
(a)    Developing a sector-wide capability to increase energy resources and coordinate
policy implementation. The Project sought to assist OEA in playing a coordinating role in policy
planning. Until 1992, sector coordination was poor and important legislation often lagged. In that
year, the defunct DOE was restored to give the energy sector cabinet-level representation. This
development allowed the Secretary of Energy to replace the President's Executive Council Secretary
as chairman of the Energy Coordination Council (ECC), which exercised broad powers in the sector.
A further development saw the OEA attached to the ECC and later transformed into DOE. DOE
was reorganized into four bureaus to better deal with (a) monitoring and assisting with demand
management, conservation and efficient use of energy resources; (b) formulating policies and
helping develop energy resources; (c) regulating financial and fiscal policies related to energy supply
entities; (d) developing and monitoring energy plans and demand forecasts; and (e) incorporating
national environmental goals into energy programs. In order to handle these functions successfully,
DOE needed to undertake a number of studies, provide additional training to staff, and purchase
modem computers and other equipment. The Project provided financing to allow DOE to undertake
these activities; however, due to substitutions of some studies and with the transformation of OEA to
DOE, only about 72% of the funds allocated for these purposes under the Project were utilized.
While these institutional changes did not in themselves result in the improvements in sector-wide
coordination as envisioned under the Project, nevertheless, the power crisis served as a catalyst in
bringing the Philippine entities together to solve the problem.
(b)    Adopting a least-cost development strategy for energy development.  The
Government chose to defer a least-cost development strategy while the country faced a power crisis
in 1991-93, and while NPC was in financial distress. To alleviate the power crisis, the Government
opted for a fast-track program to attract IPPs as mentioned above. Although these projects were not
necessarily least-cost options from a sectoral viewpoint, they were justified by longer-term strategic
considerations in the energy sector and by the immediate benefits they brought to the economy as a
whole. Only after the crisis eased did it pursue policies driven by least-cost considerations.
(c)    Strengthening regulatory activities for rational consumer energy pricing and
improving product and service standards. Tariff reform was to be accomplished by adopting price



4
adjustment mechanisms (fuel price, foreign exchange and power purchase) and by incorporating
demand charges. However, such reform was initially delayed by international oil price increases
caused by the Gulf War and by the power crisis, and later by NPC's financial difficulties. The tariff
structure eventually adopted was revenue-neutral for NPC and was implemented in January 1995.
Through an array of adjustments, it promoted energy efficiency by reducing peak power demand and
by promoting the more uniform use of electricity during daylight hours.
(d)    Encouraging private sector participation through joint ventures and other schemes.
The role of private firms in the energy sector increased dramatically during the course of the Project,
especially with regard to generation. However, this achievement was not without cost. In order to
induce the Independent Power Producers (IPPs) to participate in the fast-track generation program in
1991-93, the time-slice of the least-cost development program had to undergo substantial revision.
Nevertheless, the execution of the modified strategy created more favorable conditions for attracting
sufficient numbers of IPPs, which proved critical to ending the power crisis -- a development that
greatly facilitated the economic well-being of the country. Moreover, NPC was able to secure better
terms from the IPPs as it gained greater experience in negotiating with IPPs and, with the easing of
the power crisis, as it was increasingly guided by market considerations and less by crisis
management.  Encouraged by such results, the Government accelerated the program  for the
privatization of NPC's various operations in its 1992 Energy Section Action Plan (ESAP). The role
of NPC was thus redefined. Its role would no longer be as a generator of power, but as a purchaser
of power (mainly on a take-or-pay basis) and as an operator of the transmission system. As of end-
June 1994, NPC was involved in 15 private generation projects (BOT, ROM, etc.), with some 18
more in the pipeline. The aggregate capacity of 20 projects for which data are available is about
4,000 MW, with private sector investment estimated at about US$4.2 billion. These figures
surpassed the expectations at appraisal of both the Bank and the Government.  The further
privatization of NPC appears on track. Over the medium- to long-term, NPC will transfer its
generation assets to a holding company which will spin off each individual generating plant to the
private sector. The transmission function alone will remain with NPC. Privatization efforts at
PNOC-Petron have also progressed. While the Government owns 40% of the shares of the company
and Saudi Aramco holds another 40%, the remaining 20% is owned by about half a million Filipino
stockholders. Petron has sought the Bank's consent to prepay the entire loan proceeds of US$20
million, which it had utilized for upgrading two facilities. PNOC-EDC also sought greater private
sector participation by attracting IPPs into BOTs to convert over 600 MW of steam to electricity
from fields in Leyte. This steam resource was partly identified by the current Project, and is being
exploited by the Bank-financed Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project (Loan no. 3747-PH) and the Leyte-
Cebu Geothermal Project (Loan no. 3702-PH). The Project also advanced privatization efforts at
PNOC, which utilized a small technical assistance component to facilitate privatization of its
subsidiaries.
(e)    Improving environmental standards and monitoring in areas of high energy use or
resource development. This involved the modernization of environmental monitoring facilities and
capabilities in response to energy developments. The Project succeeded by and large in enhancing
the quality and competence of the EMB. It is now better equipped, and its personnel better trained
with consultant assistance, to carry out its various functions. However, EMB was only able to utilize
75% of its allocation, as delays at the Department of Budget prevented the timely release of funds
under the Project.
(f)    Enhancing the technical capabilities of sector institutions. The Project improved the
technical capabilities of ERB staff by financing their participation in various local and foreign



5
training courses, conferences and seminars, and by supporting technical assistance in regulatory
procedures, price and tariff determination, and related subjects. ERB acquired new capabilities to
discharge its responsibilities with respect to inspecting and enforcing conformity to standards of
metering equipment, petroleum products, etc. ERB also acquired computer hardware and software
under the Project. The Project financed technical training for staff at NEA, as well as at the Rural
Electrical Cooperatives (RECs) which NEA oversees. Such training allowed the RECs to upgrade
and rehabilitate critical transformer/substations and distribution equipment.  It also laid the
groundwork for a broader development agenda for the RECs, which was addressed under the
subsequent Rural Electrification Revitalization Project (Loan no. 3439-PH).
14.          Financing objective. The total investment program under the Project was to be
financed from four sources: (a) World Bank loans (with JEximbank parallel financing); (b) other
committed loans (including from bilateral sources); (c) other uncommitted loans; and (d) internal
cash generation. While adequate financial mobilization from external sources was largely realized
(primarily due to interventions by IPPs under BOT contracts), counterpart financing for the Bank
component from internal cash generation was found wanting, particularly with regard to NPC. This
development was not anticipated by the Bank in its appraisal in 1989, at which time the Philippine
economy and the energy sector were both growing by 5% annually. Howeve'r, this situation changed
dramatically as a series of events unfolded which impacted the sector in general and NPC in
particular: the lack of a replacement for the Bataan nuclear power plant and the breakdowns of badly
maintained thermal plants, combined with the effects of the drought, which precipitated a period of
extended brown-outs; the Gulf War, the increase in international oil prices, and Peso devaluation,
which impacted on both NPC's costs and revenues; and NPC's asset undervaluation and the political
unpopularity regarding tariff increases, which further compounded NPC's abilities to increase
revenues. As a result, NPC became in technical default of its loan covenants and was unable to
attend adequately to its investment program. All of this coincided with (and contributed to) the
country's power crisis. These problems caused a delay in the effectiveness of the JEximbank loan
until October 23, 1992, and the extension of its closing date until December 31, 1996. While the
Bank has been able to disburse 95% of its loan to NPC, JEximbank disbursements have been slow,
but Jeximbank is expected to disburse about US$62 million by end-1996, against US$150 million
which was made available.
15.          Physical objectives.  The overall physical objectives of the Project were
substantially achieved. The physical objectives of the sector program in geothermal exploration,
power generation and transmission were substantially achieved, albeit, with an increased focus on
fossil fuel-based generation.
16.          NPC. The construction of the Palimpinon II (2x2OMW) four modular geothermal
power plant commenced on May 13, 1992. All four units became operational between February
1994 and May 1995. While the cost of Palimpinon 11 was originally estimated at US$80.2 million,
the eventual cost totaled US$105.1 million, reflecting increases associated with implementation
delays and exchange rate losses. The procurement of 69kV transmission line materials for Luzon,
Visayas, Mindanao, and the Small Island grid have been completed, and some transmission lines in
Luzon and Visayas have already been erected and energized. The US$200 million Bank loan for
these purposes has been fully disbursed. The remaining transmission system construction will be
financed by JEximbank (70%) and by NPC's internal cash generation (30%).
17.          The contract for the rehabilitation of the Ambuklao hydroelectric plant was
terminated effective November 1, 1991 to encourage private financing. The rehabilitation is now



6
being effected under an ROL agreement by a consortium including MERALCO Industrial
Engineering Services Corporation, Morrison-Knudsen Corporation, Mindanao Shipbuilding
Corporation, and J.G.S. International Corporation.
18.          PNOC-Petron. PNOC-Petron successfully upgraded two facilities at its refinery
under the Project. The Gas Oil Desulfurizer Unit (GODU) was commissioned on April 23, 1995 and
the LPG treating facilities were completed on February 25, 1995. During the performance test-run,
the GODU operated with a sulfur product of 0.12 wt % based on a 1.33 % feed sulfur content. The
LPG produced yield has increased by 13%, equivalent to a 400 barrels per day increase in LPG
production, but this was below 1990 projections.
19.          PNOC-EDC. PNOC-EDC drilled 38 of the 76 geothermal exploration wells in
Luzon, but the results were disappointing, as large geothermal reserves in commercial quantities
were not discovered. Priorities then shifted to Leyte, where 28 of the wells had been drilled. The
target commission dates were postponed, while completion of resource assessment and development
strategy targets were met between one and two years later than scheduled. Despite these delays and
the lack of commercially viable geothermal resources in Luzon, PNOC-EDC has continued
exploiting geothermal resources in Leyte under two subsequent Bank-funded projects, and in new
BOT ventures.
20.           NEA. The Project provided for the rehabilitation of 12 RECs and financed an
additional eight substations and 21 power transformers and substation packages.
21.           Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return for the project has been
computed at 13.5%. This computation did not follow the methodology used in the SAR. The earlier
methodology did not make allowance for the role of independent power production, which has
become very prominent in the interim, and therefore would likely overestimate the value of the
project's benefits. Because of this new phenomenon, NPC's investment streams have focused on
lower return rehabilitation/retrofitting of old plants and transmission networks, and not on new
generation capacity. The 13.5% ERR assumes that the economic value of a kWh of electricity sold
to the distributors at high voltage terminals, after transmission in the main grids, is US7cents/kWh
(in 1994 terms). This, in fact is approximately the amount currently being realized through existing
tariffs. This ERR of 13.5%, without having to bring into reckoning "consumer surplus," is indeed
satisfactory. While it is somewhat lower than the 17% computed at appraisal, a value comparable to
the appraisal estimate would have been likely had the original methodology been followed.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
22.           The major factors affecting the achievement of Project objectives were mainly those
subject to the control of the Government or the implementing agencies, and the risks associated with
exploration.
23.           Factors generally subject to Government control. The main factors affecting the
achievement of Project objectives at this level included tradeoffs between the pursuit of a least-cost
or a fast-track strategy, the politicization of tariff adjustments, the weak financial position of NPC,
and delayed budgetary allocations to ERB and EMB.
24.           In its drive to end the power crisis (power outages and brown-outs of the late 80s and
early 90s), the Government was anxious to attract private interest in fast-track power generation,



7
even assuming some commercial risks itself. It accomplished this by supplying fuel at its own cost
to IPPs, by providing counter-guarantees on NPC guarantees for take-or-pay contracts, and by
offering incentives for power production above contracted quantities. At first, the IPPs installed
mostly gas turbines. These were favored because of their low gestation time and relatively lower
capital costs; however, their operational costs were relatively high as typifies peaking facilities used
for base load generation. Relieved from the pressures of the power crisis, NPC was able to introduce
competition in the selection of IPPs and choose lower generation cost through longer lead-time
projects, thus achieving much lower generation costs.
25.           The politicization of tariff reform brought to the forefront a controversy concerning
NPC's exemption from fuel taxes. These taxes were assessed and collected at P2,950 million in
1992, but not refunded (as was the normal practice) in view of the controversy. The Supreme Court
eventually ruled in favor of the exemption, greatly facilitating NPC's financial recovery.
26.           By 1991, NPC's financial situation had deteriorated to the extent that its rate of
return was just 3% against the covenanted 8%, and the debt service ratio dropped to 0.9, the lowest
level since 1985. As a result, NPC was in technical default of loan covenants as stipulated by the
Energy Sector Project and the Bacon-Manito Geothermal Project (Loan nos. 29690-PH and 29691-
PH). NPC's situation was, in part, precipitated by factors beyond its control, including the
devaluation of the Philippine Peso in 1990, the catastrophic droughts in Mindanao, and the upsurge
in oil prices caused by the Gulf War. However, NPC contributed to its travails by its failure to
disclose its true financial condition during 1987-90, when it resorted to a limited revaluation of its
assets and depressed its rate base. Had it carried out a full revaluation -- as was done subsequently
with consultants in 1992-93 -- the drastic remedies administered through a reform program in 1992
might not have been necessary. At present, NPC's financial condition is satisfactory; however, to
maintain its financial health, NPC must remain vigilant. NPC, in its own evaluation of the Project,
states this as a key lesson learned.
27.           Factors under the control of the implementing agencies. Factors relating to NPC
were partially addressed in the previous paragraph, as they interrelated with Government actions, but
other factors exclusive to NPC affected the achievement of Project objectives. For one, NPC's
organizational weakness led to its fighting "brush fires" under exigencies of power outages and
brown-outs, diluting its attention from construction and expansion projects. Implementation delays
(in procurement, engineering design, and right-of-way acquisitions) in the course of the Project
became endemic with NPC, a feature from which it is now recovering.
28.           While other implementing agencies did not face this range of problems, the
encountered delays in start-up and implementation, owing to their unfamiliarity with Bank
procurement procedures and with .he preparation and evaluation of bid documents.
29.           PNOC-EDC tended to be overly optimistic, both in planning for the number of
delineation/development wells to be drilled at geothermal sites in Luzon and in estimating the power
capacity from the geothermal steam these were to provide. The original program had to be revised
drastically downwards mid-way through the project cycle and the geographical focus had to be
shifted to Leyte (which proved a fruitful move).  It seems advisable, in planning for
delineation/development of uncertain prospects and providing for funds, that probability assessment
techniques be used (e.g., Monte Carlo).



8
D. Project Sustainability
30.           Project sustainability appears likely. At the macro level, the economy has been
recovering. The country has resolved the power crisis and appears to have learned from this
experience. This resolution also allowed Project objectives to come back into play. The energy
sector looks set to enjoy orderly energy growth with cost optimization. The DOE, since its
restoration in 1992, and with renewed authority over the various entities in the energy sector, has
been framing pragmatic energy policies and medium- to long-term plans. The Medium-Term Energy
Plan (1993-2000) was initiated in 1993 and was updated as the Philippine Energy Plan (1994-2010)
in 1994. DOE is also cognizant of emerging issues, such as demand side management and energy
conservation. It is also mindful of the financial implications and timing of new capacity additions by
IPPs. Such prudence is important, as a mismatch between guaranteed purchases of power and NPC's
forecasts of sales growth or readiness to receive supplies could be financially costly, but power
outages must be avoided in the end.
31.           A number of reforms in the pipeline would carry forward the process of orderly
energy growth, including: (a) restructuring NPC and privatizing its various generation plants; (b)
developing an independent transmission company (NPC may be wholly assuming this function)
which will provide IPPs with open access to the power market and thus introduce competition among
power suppliers; (c) deregulating energy pricing (targeted for end- 1996); (d) strengthening the
capabilities of NPC's BOT Center to ensure competitive private investments; and (e) developing
adequate projects suitable for private participation. NPC's latest effort to reward and promote good
performance, its Productivity Enhancement Program, should also contribute to sustainability.
32.           Further, the allocation of risks between the Government and its entities on the one
hand, and the private sector on the other, is being studied. This analysis will focus in particular on
policies guiding guarantees and pricing. Limits on the overall use of guarantees, consistent with a
realistic evaluation of the country's fiscal capacity and macroeconomic priorities, will be part of this
initiative.
33.           Finally, the Bank's CAS will support the strengthening of infrastructure to ensure
that new generation capacity will benefit the public at large. The Bank's continued participation in
the energy sector (as detailed above) is expected to reinforce the prospective policy thrusts that the
Government is currently contemplating.
E. Bank Performance
34.           Preparation. Bank performnance with regard to Project preparation was satisfactory.
Project identification was carried out in conjunction with the beneficiary institutions, and flowed
from previous work with the same parties during the preparation of the Energy Sector Study. While
the objectives of the Project were clear, the Project was necessarily complex, owing to the
participation of eight separate beneficiaries, and its sector-wide scope. This complexity allowed for
a degree of innovation with regard to Project design, and called for a great deal of effort on the part
of Bank staff. Since the Project was financing only a time-slice of the investment program (of which
there were many sub-projects), suitable sub-projects were selected from a rolling list which was
prepared annually. The Project afforded additional flexibility by allowing the beneficiary institutions
to seek alternative financing arrangements using Bank funds as a backstop. Since it was anticipated
that some sub-projects would involve BOTs, an innovative mechanism for financing procurement
was worked out for such cases, though never used, apparently due to the perceived burden of



9
complying with Bank procurement procedures. With regard to environmental considerations, the
Bank reserved the right to review the Environmental Impact Assessment, and stipulated that it must
be satisfied before the Bank could approve the use of loan proceeds for particular sub-projects. The
geothermal development around Mt. Apo was excluded from the 1989-93 time-slice until an
environmental assessment could be completed, but given the continuous protests by NGOs regarding
the environmental impact of such development, it was subsequently dropped from consideration for
Bank financing.
35.          Appraisal. Bank performance with regard to appraisal was satisfactory, especially
given the complexity of the Project. In fact, one Executive Director commented that the Project was
a "well designed operation which is central to the Bank's Assistance to the Philippines." However, it
should be pointed out that, between the first appraisal mission in July 1989 and the first supervision
in June 1990, when Bank staff were concentrating on the loan approval process, the financial
situation of NPC quickly deteriorated. While the Bank had recognized that NPC's finances were
weak from the on-set, it had not fully appreciated the severity of its financial position, nor
anticipated how vulnerable NPC was to the exogenous factors which quickly brought about its
financial crisis (para. 14). However, the Bank was quick to adapt its supervision priorities and
respond to NPC's financial crisis by providing strong support during the crisis that followed.
36.          Supervision. Bank supervision was satisfactory. Given the complexity of the
Project and the fact that there were eight Philippine entities involved (para. 8), supervision efforts
focused on a few, key issues. With regard to NPC, the aim was on alleviating its financial problems,
compliance with legal covenants, improving its efficiency, and encouraging private participation in
generation and privatization. With regard to PNOC-EDC, supervision was more hands-on, with
Bank staff involved in implementing sub-projects and in guiding the steps for BOT power
generation. The DOE entities did not require much supervision given the relatively simple scope of
their participation.
F. Borrower Performance
37.          Preparation. Overall project preparation by the Borrowers was satisfactory. Such
preparation was in large part a follow-up on the Bank's Energy Sector Study (1988) and to the
Government's Statement of Energy Policy, as the sector reforms embodied in the Project (e.g.,
privatization, least-cost development, economic prices, etc.) were set out in these earlier works. In
such a framework, NPC, OEA and PNOC drew up action plans and investment programs which
could be coordinated, yielding economies of scale and scope. However, NPC made overly optimistic
assumptions about its internal cash generating capabilities, and this error, in combination with a
number of exogenous factors, contributed to its financial distress -- and to subsequent problems with
implementation and performance.
38.          Implementation. The overall implementation performance of DOE, EMB, ERB,
NEA and PNOC was satisfactory. In the case of NPC, Project implementation was unsatisfactory in
the early years, due to its absorption in the pursuit of private investment, but improved with the
easing of the power crisis and its own financial recovery. Project implementation problems included
slow disbursement, procurement complications, delays in the availability of counterpart funding, and
delays in acquiring rights-of-way. There was further a deferment in the effectiveness date of parallel
financing by JEximbank, resulting in a delay in the implementation of the subproject, which is not
expected to be completed until 1996.



10
G. Assessment of Outcome
39.          The outcome of the Project was satisfactory. The Project substantially achieved its
major objectives, given the changed environment, and is likely to achieve satisfactory development
results with only a few shortcomings. Annex A Table lb provides a breakdown of the extent to
which estimates in the SAR were realized.
H. Future Operations
40.          At the sectoral level, future operation would be greatly advanced by undertaking
appropriate measures to improve the private business environment, strengthen policy formulation,
and ensure efficient project implementation. The Bank has succeeded in shaping a favorable
investment climate, despite its relatively minor resource commitment. Further, the Bank will
continue its on-going dialogue with the Borrowers in the course of follow-on projects, further
improving the operating environment.  In addition, DOE has mapped out a comprehensive
restructuring of the energy sector to be accomplished in three phases (Annex B, Table 2). Phase one
(1994-98) is directed at strengthening all sectors and participants in the industry, restructuring
generation and transmission, facilitating coordination, and preparing the industry for increased
competition, privatization and decentralization. Phase two (1998-99) will focus on evaluating results
and further restructuring and privatization.  Phase three (1999-04) envisions moving into a
completed restructured and competitive environment. With respected to the operating units of NEA,
NPC and PNOC financed under the Project during Phase I, the associated measures should help
guarantee proper maintenance of their respective operations.
I. Key Lessons Learned
41.          It would be trite to state that any commercial institution must maintain a continuous
vigil over its financial position. However, considering the experience of NPC, this lesson bears
restatement. Financial and commercial policies must be adopted with due consideration of their
ultimate consequences. Exigencies of operation must not result in onerous financial conditions, as it
could have long-term repercussions. It would be desirable that NPC study the implications of the
several IPP contracts it has signed with take-or-pay clauses and high plant factors. While contract
conditions must be honored, NPC should have a clear idea of the problems which may arise from
such obligations, including the problems associated with coordination of the IPPs.
42.          Privatization can succeed if implementing agencies are committed to the new policy
paradigm, take bold but flexible steps, and institutions provide incentives for prospective participants
(such as IPPs). In the design of future energy sector projects, policymakers and managers need to
recognize how and when to modify (or abandon) conventional assumptions, and to apply a strategy
that will introduce innovative solutions in a fast-changing global economic environment. For
example, to resolve the power crisis, it was necessary drop the belief/paradigm that NPC
should/could have a monopoly on the energy supply in the Philippines. This paradigm shift made
private funding possible.
43.          Private investment must be secured under competitive conditions to ensure that
market forces help achieve least-cost solutions. Investors must be expected to bear all commercial
risks. Where exigencies of circumstances, such as the pressing need for external capital/new
technology, obliges governments or their agencies to assume some of the commercial risks, there



11
should be a thorough analysis of the long-term implications with objective, expert assistance, and
then the terms of such offers should be negotiated on fair terms for both sides.
44.          Bank guidelines for procurement have uniformly been appreciated by the Borrowers
for their transparency and integrity of the processes involved, yet developing a mastery of these
guidelines seems to be a protracted undertaking.  Apart from the Bank educating concerned
personnel of the Borrowers (even during appraisal), it may be worthwhile to require borrowers to
maintain continuity of key personnel to handle procurement from loan to loan.
45.          Given the complexity of the Project and the critical nature of the work which needed
to be carried out during supervision, particularly regarding NPC's financial situation and
implementation problems, the Bank could have undertaken more initiatives to make such supervision
more effective. One approach would be to consider some of the topics during supervision that are
normally considered during an ICR exercise (Borrower performance, Bank performance, Lessons
Learned, etc.) so that supervision would become more of a proactive exercise and any lessons could
be applied during the course of the Project, when they would be most useful. Moreover, a more
judicious allocation of responsibilities among professional staff may be called for in order to cover
as much ground as possible, with the possibility of rotating Task Managers.



I



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan nos. 3163-PH, 3164-PH, 3165-PH)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives                     Substantial            PiNegligible hk
appllicable
Macroeconomic policies                               0                    00                                           0
Sector policies                                      0                    0                      0                     0
Financial objectives                                 0                    0                      0                     0
Institutional development                            0                    0                      0                     0
Physical objectives                                  0                    0                      0                     0
Poverty reduction                                    O                    2                      O                     0
Gender concems                                       0                    O                      O                     0
Other social objectives                                                                          0 O                   0
Environmental objectives                             o                    0                      0                     0
Public sector management                             O                    0                      0                     0
Private sector development                           0                    0                      0                     0
Economic benefits                                    Ql                   O
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv                          Likely              Unlikel               Uncertain 1/
(V                   (/                     (/
0                    0                      0
C. Bank Perfofmance                                Hi2hlv
Satsifactory         SatisfactoQ               Deficient
(/)                  (/)                    (/)
Identification                                       0                    0                      0
Preparation assistance                               0                    0                      0
Appraisal                                            0                    0                      0
Supervision                                          0                    0                      0
D. Borrower Performance                           Hi1hly
Sfifc                Satsatr                  Deficient
(/3                  (/3                    (/
NPC (Loan 3163-PH)
Preparation                                          O0                                          0
Implementation                                       0                    0                      0
Covenant compliance                                  0                    0                      0
Operation (if applicable)                            E                    0                      0
PNOC (Loan 3164-PH)
Preparation                                          0                                           0
Implementation                                                            0                      G
Covenant compliance                                  0                    0                      0
Operation (if applicable)                            0                    0                      0



13
D. BorrowerPerformance                         Higly
Safisfctory         Satisfactory           Deficient
(I)                 ('                   (0
PNOC-EDC (Loan 31 64-PH)
Preparation                                      0                   0                     0
Implementation                                   0                   0                     0
Covenant compliance                                                  0                     o
Operation (if applicable)                        0                   Q                     O
PNOC -PETRON(Loan 3164-PH)
Preparation                                      0                   0                     0
Implementation                                   0                   0                     0
Covenant compliance                              0                   0                     0
Operation (if applicable)                        0                   Q                     O
DOE (Loan 3165-PH)                               (/)                 ()                   (0
Preparation                                                                                0  
Implementation                                    0        0                               0
Covenant compliance                              0                   0                     0
Operation (if applicable)                        0                   0                     O
ERB (Loan 3165-PH)                               (I)                 (I                    (/)
Preparation                                      0                   0                     0
lmplementarion                                   0                   0                     0
Covenant compliance                                                                        0 
Operation (if applicable)                        n                   0                     O
NEA(Loan3165-PH)                                 (/)                 (0                    (I)
Preparation                                      0                   0                     o
Implementation                                                       0                     0
Covenant compliance                              Q                   0                     0
Operation (if applicable)                        o                   0                     0
EMB (Loan 3165-PH)                               (/)                 (I)                   (/)
Preparation                                      0                   0                     0
Implementation                                   0                   0                     0
Covenant compliance                              Q                   0                     0
Operation (if applicable)                        0                   0                     0
E. Assessment of Outcome                       Higly
Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
(0                 (0                    (0
0                   0                    0



14
Table lb: Summary of Assessment
(Overview: Expectudons and Performance)
SAR          Actual       Bank     Bank
estimates of   project   loan      loan
project costs  costs      amount   utilized
Beneficiary                                                                1989-1993    1990-1995
Brower  agency         Core goals of ESP      Results achieved                      SM                        $ 5M       S M
SM
GOP      OEA/DOE       Lead & coordinate      DOE under a full time Secretary in
L3163-                 sector activities;     Charge of Energy affairs created;
PH                                                                                          4.3          3.1       4.3      3.1
Carry out studies with   Done, and findings used for policy
expert help.
ERB           Raise professional    Done, more remains to be done
competence to
regulate energy
prices/inspection.                                                   3.0         3.5       3.0      3.5
EMB           Raise professional    Done, but more remains to be done
competence to
safeguard the
environment
implementing energy
projects                                                            12.2         7.8      10.1       7.8
NEA           Boost rural           First-aid type assistance provided.
electrification, where    Revitalization of project is ongoing
moribund pending a
comprehensive
revitalization project                                              26.5        i&        22.6     ,&
Subtotal                                                                          440         f27       40        ,-7
NPC                    Adopt a least cost     Energy crisis and financial woes of NPC
L3163-                 development program    in 1990-91 upset the program; but this
PH)      NPC           over 1989-93 and       accelerated private investments in power
optimize              generation - initial fast track projects
investments/returns;    were not cost effective, but subsequent
invoke private        ones were, mainly due to market
participation, etc.   competition and enormous interest in the
Philippines. If NPC had been more alert
in 1990, the financial crisis would have
been mitigated and drastic steps of the
Recovery program enforced by IMF with
Bank support obviated                      2722.0       2292.0    200.0    200.0
PNOC-  PNOC-EDC    Develop Steam              Luzon did not keep its promises, so
L314-                  Delivery in Luzon/     PNOC-EDC diverted attention to Leyte
PH                     Visayas & Provide a    where there has been success; and BOTs
local economic        will convert steam to electricity.
resources for power
generation, seek
private, participation                                             466.0       265.0    133.0    118.0
Petron        Upgrade quality of    Done in all respects
diesel oil/ increase
LPG production/
privatize                                                           29.0        37.0      14.0       20
PNOC          Re-orient towards     Largely done; PNOC-EDC will also be
privatization of almost  privatized in the coming two years.
all its subsidiaries
UQ U33 L 
Subtotal                                                                         498.0       303.3     150.0    139.3
Total Project Loan Disbursement                                                 3266.0      2628.0    390.0    372.0
% actual to Planned Disbursements                                               100%          80%      100%      95%
Overall Economic Rate of Retum                                                  17.0%       13.5%
.Includes costs financed from Energy Sector Project loan. For breakdown of total cost and financing- see table 8A & 8B 



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title                      Purpose                     Year of            Status
approval
Preceding operations
Loan 2201-PH & 2202-PH       Promote private oil companies in petroleum     1982             Closed
Petroleum Exploration Promotion exploration and strengthen the expoloration
Project                      capabilites of Bureau of Energy and PNOC.
Loan 2203-PH                 Improve national strategy for geothermal       1982             Closed
eothermal Exploration Project  exploration, govemment geothermal development
policy and institutions; facilitate private
involvement in geothermal exploration etc.
Loan 2969-PH                 Support the least cost source incremental      1988             Closing
Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power capacity for Luzon grid; and strengthen
Project                     institutional capabilities and financial viability
Loan 3084-PH                Improve MERALCO's sub- transmission and         1989             Active
Manila Power Distribution    distribution system and its institutional capacity
Following operations
.EXIM NPC- JEXIM component  First phase of a least-cost energy sector       1992             Active
of Loan 3163-PH              development program
Loan 3439-PH Rural           Enhance National Electrification Administration's  1992         Active
Electrification Revitalization  effectiveness, REC's Investment Program for
Project                      1992-95
L3626-PH NPC-Power           Alleviate power shortage in Luzon              1993             Active
Transmission & Rehabilitation
Project
Loan 3700-PH/Loan 3702-PH    Develop geothermal resources for power         1994             Active
NPC-Leyte-Cebu Geothermal    generation, strengthen institutions and their
Project                     financial viability.
Loan 3746-PH/Loan 3747-PH    Develop geothermal resources for power         1994             Active
NPC-Leyte-Luzon Geothermal   generation, strengthen institutions and their
Project                     financial viability
Loan  -PH Power Transmission Support the Government's plan to restructure the  1996      Appraisal stage
& Rehabilitation             National Power Corporation and power sector
privatization



16
Table 3: ProJect Timetable
Steps In project cycle               Date planned            Date actual/latest esdmate
Identification                            October 1988            October 1988
Preparation                               May 1989                May 1989
Appraisal                                 June 1989               June 1989
Negotiations                              October 1989            October 1989
Board presentation                        January 1990            February 1, 1990
Signing                                   March 1990              March 16, 1990
Effectiveness                             May 1990                June 12, 1990
Project completion                        December 31, 1994       December 31, 1995
Loan closing (Loan 3163-PH))              December 31, 1994       June 30, 1995
Loan dosing (Loan 3164-PH, 3165-PH)       December 31, 1994       December 31, 1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS million)
Bank FY                              FY90        FY91    FY92       FY93      FY94        FY95   FY96
Appraisal estimate                   15.00       70.00   160.00    280.00    372.00     390.00
Actual                               15.00       82.53   155.90    234.18    315.01     368.96  370.77
Actual as % of estimate                100         115       93        83        82         94      9
a) Loan 3163-PH: National Power Corporation
Bank FY                             FY90         FY91    FY92       FY93       FY94     FY95      FY96
Appraisal estimate                   6.00        26.00   62.00     127.00     189.or   200.00
Actual                              !5.00        53.32  100.04     159.00     188.18   200.00
Actual as % of estimate               250          211     161        124       96.0    100%
b) Loan 3164-PH: Philippines National Oll Company
|Bank FY                            FY 90        FY91    FY92       FY93       FY94      FY95     FY96
Appraisal estimate                    6.0         28.0    64.0      112.0      142.0    150.0
|Actual                                0.0       19.82   36.97      54.61     105.05   139.21   139.31
|Actual as % of estimate                0         7168      58         49     105.05       93       93
bi) Loan 3164-PH: PNOC-EDC
Bank FY                             FY 90        FY91    FY92       FY93       FY94     FY95      FY96
Appraisal/revised estimate            2.5         33.3    65.5      122.1      133.0    133.0
Actual                                0.0         19.0    33.7       49.6       84.3    117.9      118
1Actual as % of estimate                0           57      51         40        63        89       89
Revised appraisal estimate not consistent with appraisal disbursement for the loan as a whole.



17
b2) Loan 3164-PH: Petron Corporation (Part A (2) of Loan Agreement)
Bank FY                                FY 90       FY91    FY92       FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96j6
Appraisal estimate
Actual                                    0.0       0.52    2.94       4.36      19.97     19.97
ctual as % of estimate
*Planned disbursement for part A(2) of loan agreement not available in appraisal document. Figure only for total loan.
c) Loan 3165-PH: Republic of the Philippines
Bank FY                                FY 90        FY91  FY92        FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96
Appraisal estimate                        3.0        16.0  33.3        40.0
Actual                                   0.00        6.50  14.88      22.16      25.83     28.61     32.70
ctual as % of estimate                    0          41     44         55         64        72        80
ci) Loan 3165-PH: Department of Energy (DOElformerfy OEA)
ank FY                                FY90          FY91   FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95     FY96
Appraisal estimate                      0.50          2.50   4.30
Actual                                  0.34          0.53   0.68      1.26       1.91      2.53      3.11
Adual as % of estimate                    68           21      16        29         44       59        72
c2) Loan 3165-PH: Energy Regulatory Board (ERB)
|Bank FY                               FY90         FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94          FY95         FY96
Appraisal estimate                      0.50         2.50     3.00
Actual                                  0.00         0.08     1.21    1.97    2.39      3.45          3.45
Actual as % of estimate                    0           3       40      66      80        115
c3) Loan 3165-PH: National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Bank FY                                FY 90    FY91      FY92   FY93        FY94         FY95       FY96
ppraisal estimate                      1.00     7.00     16.60   22.30
ctual                                  0.00    8.78      16.87   16.87      16.87       18.33      18.33
ctual as % of estimate                    0      87        90       80         80          81
c4) Loan 3165-PH: Environmental Management Bureau (EMB)
IBank FY                                FY 90    FY91      FY92      FY93          FY94       FY95  FY96
|Appraisal estimate                      1.00    4.00      9.40      10.40
IActual                                                    0.13       0.47          0.61       5.44   7.80
Actual as % of estimate                                       1          5             6         52    75
Loan 3163-PH final transaction on February 23, 1995.
Loan 3164-PH final transaction on April 15, 1996.
Loan 3165-PH final transaction on May 3, 1996.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
a) Loan 3163-PH: NPC
(As_of June_30,1996)
Appraisal estimates              Actual or latest estimates
Components               Location     Capacity    Completion    Total    Capacity    Completio    Total
(MWIKy)         year       cost       (MW)         n year      cost
Geothernnal                     Visayas       4X20MW    1992             80.20    4X20MW        2J1194       109.11
Palimpinon II
Rehabilitation-Thermal          Luzon         400 MW        1991          114.9   400 MW        12131194?   2.28
(Sucat 2&3 (advance
procurement)
69KV transmission lines and     Luzon,            670 km   1993          51.5          634km   continued   21.91
New Island Grd transmission     Visayas &       747.5 km                             199.9km   under
Lines                           Mindanao          400 km                             484.2km   JEXIM
1818.5km                            1318.1km
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
b) Loan 3163-PH: NPC's Generating Capacity from Independent Power Producers(IPPs) by Source of Energy
(MW)
Private Capacity                                                  Source of Energy
Oil         Coal      Geothermal          Hydroelectric               Total
Year 1993
Benguet Hydro                                                                               22                   22
Sucat Land Base                          30                                                                      30
Subic-Zambales                           28                                                                      28
Gas Turbin Barges                       150                                                                     150
Subic-Zambales                          108                                                                     108
Novatas GT                              100                                                                     100
Limay CC GT                             210                                                                     210
MacbanBinary Geothermal                                                16                                        16
Clark Base Diesel                        50                                                                      50
Pinamucan Batangas                      150                                                                     150
Binga Hydro                                                                                100                  100
Maibara Geo                                                           13                                         13
Calaca Batangas                          90                                                                      90
Limay, Bataan CC                        210                                                                     210
Tomen Diesel                             40                                                                      40
NSC Diesel                               50                                                                      50
lligan Diesel                            98                                                                      98
Year 1994
Bataan EPZA Diesel                       58                                                                      58
North Harbor Barge                       90                                                                      90
Cavite EPZA Diesel                       63                                                                      63
Bacman Geothermal                                                     16                                         16
Malya Skid Mounted                       50                                                                      50
Engg Island Barge                       100                                                                     100
Novatas Diesel Barge                    120                                                                     120
Limay CC Cycle B                         90                                                                      90
Limay CC Cycle B                         90                                                                      90
Bauang, La Union                        215                                                                     215
Ambuklao                                                              75                                         75
Mindanao Barges                         200                                                                     200
Year 1995
Pagbilao, Quezon 1                                    350                                                       350
Year 1996
Pagbilao, Quezon 11                                   350                                                       350
Leyte-Cebu Geothermal                                                200                                        200
Year1997
Leyte-Luzon Geothermal                                               440                                        440
Year1998
Mindanao Geothermal                                                  240                                        240
Year 199
Sual Pangasinan                                      1000                                                      1000
Torcental                    12= 195
.~~~~~~~l                                 .     l. . 



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
c) Loan 3164-PH: PNOC-EDC - Resource Assessment & Development Strategy
SAR estimates                                       Actual
Capacity   Target  Completion of Completion of Capacity       Date      Completion Completion of
of
Subprojects     MW    Commissio   Resource    Development    MW    Commissioned  Resource  Development
ning
Assessment    Strategy                             Assessme    Strategy
nt
Bacman l&ll      40       1992      Dec. 1988     Apr. 1989          40           1993  Dec. 1988     Apr. 198
Pinatubo         60       1993      Dec. 1989     Apr. 1990           - abandoned       Apr. 1990
Natib            60       1993      Dec. 1989     Apr. 1990           - abandoned       Jan. 1990
Bulusan          60       1994      Dec. 1990     Apr. 1991           - need further          N/A          N/A
evaluation
Labo/de          120      1994      Jul. 1990     Oct. 1990         120          1997  Apr. 1993  3rd. Q. 1995
Gallego
Cagua            40       1994      Jun. 1990     Oct. 1990           -              - Aug. 1991           N/A
o. Negros       40       1994      Jun. 1991     Oct. 1991         40           1997   Mar. 1995   Jun. 1995
Po I           120       1993     Dec. 1988      Jun. 1989         120       1994/96  Dec. 1988    Jun. 1989
Upper Mahiao    110       1995      Jun. 1990     Dec. 1990         130          1996  Jun. 1990      May 1992
Maltibog         110      1995      Jun. 1990     Dec. 1990         240        1996/97  Jun. 1990     May 1992
Mahanagdong    110        1995      Feb. 1991     Nov. 1991         165           1997  Feb. 1991     May 1992
Ato Peak                                                           80           1997  Feb. 1993           N/A
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
d) Loan 3164-PH: PNOC-EDC- Drilling Program Implementation
Appraisal Targets                               Actual/latest outlook
1989   1990   1991   1992  1993   Total    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   Total
Bacman II          3       4                      7        2      1                                    3
5      5              10                                                    0
Natib       I       4      5       5              15                                                   0
Labo        I              5       s5     9       20                                    2       1      3
Bulusan     I       1      5       5      2       14                                                   0
Cagua       1       3              5      1       10                                                   0
N.Negros                                          0                                     3       1      4
Leyte                                             0        3      4      6       6      9              28
Total       4       11     24      25    12       76       5      5      6       6       14     2      38



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
c) Loan 3164-PH: PNOC-Petron
Item                                      Per Approved        Actual              Variance
Schedule
I     Contract negotiationtfinalization of basic
design consultancy                        I month             2 6n months          3 In months
2.    Approvals (PNOCABIRD) & signing letter of  I month            3 months             2 months
intent
3.    Slack from signing of LOI to start of design  0 month          I month             I month
worksl
4.    Basic design                              3 months            6 months             3 months
S.   ITB package third party review             0 month             2 months            2 months
6.    Solicitation of additional bids           0 month             7 months             7 months
7.    Award approval (PNOC/IBRD)                I mon               2 months             I mon
Total                                    6 months             23 1/2 months       17 1/2 months
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
a) Loan 3163-PH: National Power CorporatIon
FY ended                      1986  1988          1989   1993   1989   1990  1991   1992  1993   1994    1995
.... Actual ....    ..... Projected .....  ................. Actual or latest estimates.
Key operating indicators In
SAR
Physical:
Energy sales ('000 gwh)       17.6  21.2           22.9   31.8   22.2   22.9  23.6   24.0  24.9   28.7    30.7
Financial:~
Operating revenue (P billion)  17.5  19.8            22   48.9   20.6   25.8  32.3   37.6  40.5   50.5    54.7
Average net revenue (ctvlkwh)   96.8  93.5         96.3  155.2    93    112   140    158   164    177          181
Net operating Income (P billion)    0.7   5.6       5.5    9.6    2.4    1.0  -3.7    7.1   6.8   12.1          9.8
NPC nnvestments
FY                            1989  1990  1991   1992   1993   1989   1990  1991   1992  1993   1994    1995
Capital expenditures          13.3    15  16.8   19.4   23.4    6.6   11.2   9.7   14.7  28.6   36.6    37.1
Intemal cash generation        4.6   6.9  10.7   10.3    9.5   -0.2    2.2  -4.9   11.6  10.0   23.2    24.9
Shortfall (financing           8.7   8.1   6.1    9.1   13.8    6.8    8.9  14.6    3.1  18.6   13.5    12.2
requirement)
Financing
Local component                5.0   4.9   5.7    7.4    8.5    0.3    0.6   2.5    4.5   9.5   11.9    15.5
Foreign component              8.3  10.1  11.1   12.1   14.9  8.49    10.2  10.7   10.2  19.0   24.8    21.6



21
Table 6: Key Indicator for Project Operation
b) Loan 3184-PH: Philippines National Oil Company
FYended                     1986  1988           1989  1993  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   1994    1995
Actual ............ .             .........  Actual or latest estimates.
Key Operating Indicators In SAR
Physical:
Petroleum product sales        21  32.1           33.3  46.5  36.3  40.4  40.3  46.2  51.5   54.2    54.3
(million barrels)
Coal sales ('000 tons)       4.19   874          1061  1103   578   726   853   575   648    746   906.8
Geothermal sales (Gwh)        605   738           990  3664  1486  1487  1498  1493  1912   2240    2201
iFinancial:
Revenues (P billion)         15.7  20.4           21.5  41.8  21.3  33.7  46.7  43.2  47.8   25.2        4.3
Net earnings (P billion)      0.4   1.3            1.2   3.5   1.6   1.7   2.0   2.5   3.5   19.2        2.4
Return on capital employed (%)   9.6   9.8        10.4  10.4  10.8  10.8   9.7  10.3  11.7   45.5        7.1
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
c) Loan 3164-PH: Phileppines National Oil Company-EnerW  Development Corporation
FYYended                     1986  1988          1989  1993  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   1994   1995
Actual.  r     Projected ....    ...... . Actual or latest estimates.
Key Operating Indicators In
SAR
Financial:
Revenues (P million)          391   544           681  3,240 .1041  1211  1367  1500  1970   2285    2275
Net eamings (P million)   ,    38   114           144 1,632   276   387   395   422   607   1207         730
Return on capital employed (%)   2.2   2.4         3.2   8.5   8.6  11.2  11.2  16.6  10.2   11.0        7.4
' Unaudited
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
d) Loan 3164-PH: PhilIppines National Oil Company-Petron Corporation
FY ended                     1986  1988          1989  1993  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   1994    1995
l | Actual            Projected      ................. Actual or latest estimates.
Key Operating Indicators In
SAR
Financial:
Revenues (P million)          391   544           681 3,240 19103 30995 43495 40712 44938  45943   44641
Net earnings (P million)       38   11414  1,632   859   868  1153  1472  2777   3736    4020
Return on capital employed (%)   2.2   2.4         3.2   8.5     9     7    10    10    14       15       18



22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study/tfchnical assistance  at appraisactredefined        Status                   Impact of study
|O/EA/ Loan 3165-PH
|. Environmental Impacts Study sites producing   Completed in Aug. 1995 pField Application of Reverse Osmosis
of Accelerated Geothermal geothermal steam and examine instead of the planned    System in the Treatment of Geothe1mal
Energy Development    the envrumetcntal situation,   date of Mar. 1993  Wastewater BrineM  was initiated.
current and in the future; train                 Provided framework for DOE to
OEA staff to discharge their                     discharge its enhanced responsibility for
functions satisfactorily.                        the energy sector under the Republic
Act 7638
fo. Coal Preparation     Establish mobile coal testing   The drum coal preparation Identity potential for upgrading for
Testing Station Facility   facility; replace non-power  Plant was commissioned  Philippine coal industry.
and Pilot Research    application of geo-thermal   in 2nd quarter of 1994
eSg Luents - ense study in Mak-
Ban
D. InsFutionalization of   Draw up-to-date local plans and Completed in 1993.  Developed a frame work for Integrated
ethods and Procedures  capability for the increase and  Developed the a Frame    Energy Panning of sustainable
for Local Non-        widespread use of non-     work for Integrated Energy Development(dREP).
Conventional Energy   conventional energy systems  Planning of sustainable   DOE to pilot test i  p
Planning at Regional and  and then integrate these into a Developmento (IREP). All
lSub-Regional Levels  national energy system.    components were
completed.
ID. Fuel Contingency Plan Define rolesdfunctions of  Fuel contingency plan was Served as input in the Contingency
various government agencies  undertaken ahead of  Planning Commitee chaired by NEDA,
and the oil industry under  schedule because of the  created to forrnulate a national plan for
contingencies and suggest    Gulf-War and continued   which the national contingency plan was
policy guidelines on :    being updated to conform  the focal point
administration, control,  with current situation.
domestic production, refining, (Financing was from other
inventory control, allocation,   sources.)
distribution and security.
E. Cost Structure and  Operating, financing, &   No- longer pursued under
|Transfer Pricing in  investment costs) of the oil   the WB-ESL. USAID has
Petroleum             component. Produce         agreed to finance the
computerized database,     study
software and purchase
recommended hardware and
train OEA staff
EMB (Loan 3165-PH)
Manuals for Air and    Reevaluate the requirements   Manuals for air and water Applied
water quality monitoring  for satisfactory Environmental  monitoring were
Impact Assessments(EIASs)  completed
PNOC (Loan 3164-PH)
Bacman ll             For each site, prepare a   Completed in-house. TDP Commissioned in 1993
resource assessment and   Consultants' final report
development strategy study to  was presented to PNOC-
form the basis for geothermal  EDC in Aug. 90
power development
investments.



23
Table 7: Studies Included In Project (continued)
Purpose as defined
Study/technical assistance  at appraisal/redefined         Status                   Impact of study
PNOC (Loan 3164-PH)
Natib                  Difto                      Completed in house. Final No development strategy has been
report was submifted to   programmed as area is considered less
PNOC EDC in Dec. 90.   promising/low priority
Low priority based on the
results of two wells results
of two wells drilled.
Pinatubo               DiKto                      Completed in-house. TDP Project was abandoned
consultant's final report
was submifted to PNOC-
EDC in Sept. 1990.
Cagua                  Ditto                      Completed in-house. TDP Project was abandoned.
consultant's final report
was submitted to PNOC-
EDC in July 1992. Report
of Mesquite was
completed in Oct. 1992.
Labo                   Difto                      Preliminary in-house-   Completed March 1995.
resource assessment
using discharge results of
LB1 D and LB3D was
completed in April 1993.
Bulusan                Ditto                      Need further evaluation   No definite schedule yet.
|Leyte Areas (upper    Ditto                       Review of in-house     Included in Leyte A Project.
Mahiao, Malitbog,                                 studies was presented to
Mahanagdong)                                      PNOC-EDC and WB in
Mar 91. Resource
Optimization for Upper
Mahiao and Malitbog
which was completed in
Aug. 1992 was confirmed
in Oct. 1992.
Aito Peak              Difto                      Final resource          Final report based on results of AP9D is
assessment report      expected to be completed by December
completed in June 1993.  1995
Mahagnao               Difto                      Consultant's report     Low priority - not included in the first 600
completed during second  MW in Leyte A.
quarter of 1992.
A Study of Power Tariffs,  Restructure energy pricing and conducted       It is now possible to make monthly
petroleum product pricing, use. Long run marginal pricing                 correction after separate adjustments
and coal pricing       scheme                                             formula for fuel oil, diesel, coal and
geothermal steam is designed.
Study on Privatization  Define independent        conducted.              Saw its first application in the form of
Options for the Philippines (depoliticized) regulatory                    basic rates, fuel cost adjustment and
lPower Sector          system which: a) establishes                       currency exchange rate adjustment.
fair and stable conditions for all                 NPC now able to cover its volatile costs.
potential participants; b)
implements an economically
rational, financially viable,
power tariff system that
promotes efficient use of capital
and energy.



24
Table 8A: Project Costs
SAR Estimates
Local    Foreign     Total       Local     Foreign          Tota
ency/Item                                    Pesos million                       USS million
Loan 3163-PH: NPC
Base Cost                               11001.6   41252.1    52253.7        511.7      1918.7         2430.4
Contingencies                            2305.7    4685.8    6991.5           95        196.6          291.6
Subtotal                                13307.3   45937.9   59245.2         606.7      2115.3          2722
Loan 3614-PH: PNOC
Base Cost                                7698.5      5326    13024.5        358.1       247.7          605.8
Contingencies                            2263.6       1566     3829.6         80         55.4          135.4
Subtotal                                 9962.1      6892    16854.1        438.1       303.1         741.2
Loan 3165-PH: GOP
OEADOE                                     46.2       47.4       93.6         2.1         2.2            4.3
ERB                                        47.3       17.2       64.5         2.2         0.8             3
EMB                                         6.4      255.8      262.2         0.3        11.9           12.2
NEA                                        92.5      478.5       571          4.3        22.2          26.5
Subtotal                                  192.4      798.9      991.3         8.9        37.1            4
otal Investment                        23461.8   53628.8   77090.6        1053.7      2455.5        3509.2
Actual or latest estimates
Local    Foreign     Total       Local     Foreign          Total
AgoncyJltem                                    Pesos million                       USS million
Loan 3163-PH: NPC
Subtotal                                 9081.8   50505.0   59586.8         349.3      1942.5        2291.
Loan 3614-PH: PNOC
Subtotal                                 9764.8    5891.6    1565.4         376.0       229.6          602.9
Loan 3165-PH: GOP1/
OEA/DOE                                    36.4       44.2       80.6         1.4         1.7            3.1
ERB                                        24.2       66.1       90.3         0.9         2.5            3.4
EMB                                         6.5      157.8      164.3         0.3         6.3            6.6
NEA                                       114.4      475.8      590.2         4.4        18.3           22.7
Subtotal                                  181.5      743.9      925.4         7.0        28.8           35.8
otal Investment                         19028.1   57140.5   76188.6         732.7      2200.3         2932.9



25
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USS M)     Actual/ Latest Estimate (US$ M)
Agency/Source                             Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign        Total
Loan 3163-PH: NPC
Committed Loan (OECF, Eximbank)
ADB, World Bank, Italian, French)         110.5      794.5     905.0       65.2      996.1      10613.0
Loan under negotiation/negotiated          22.0     143.0      165.0       11.7       74.2        85.9
World Bank Sector Project                  50.0      150.0     200.0       31.1      168.9       200.0
Eximbank Loan                              50.0      100.0     150.0       32.5      117.5       150.0
Internal & Other financing                374.2     927.8    1,302.0     208.8      585.8        794.6
Subtotal                                  6067    2.115.3    2.722.0      349       1942.5       2291t
Loan 3614-PH: PNOC
OECF,ADB,WorldBank/a                                 100.0     100.0      211.4      124.1       335.
World Bank Sector Project                            150.0      150.0         -      139.3        139.3
Internal cash & other financing           438.1       53.1     491.2      133.7          -       133.7
Subtotal                                  438.      303.1      741.2      345.1      26A
Loan 3165-PH: GPR
OEA/DOE
orld Bank Sector Project                  21         2.2       43         1.4        1.7         3.1
ERB
World Bank Sector Project                   2           .                   0.9        2.5          3.4
EMB
World Bank Sector Project                   .3        10.1       10.4       0.3        6.3         6.6
Grant funds                              -             1.8       1.8          -          -
Subtotal                                    .3        1 t9      12 2        0.3        6.3         6.6
NEA
World Bank Sector Project                -            22.2      22.2          -       18.3         18.3
Local Financing                             4.3     -            4.3        4.4          -         4.4
Subtotal                                    4.3                 2           4.4       18.3        22.7
Total                                   1,053.7    2,455.5    3,509.2     701.4    2234.7       2936.1
Of which:
Committed loans from foreign sources      132.5    1,037.5    1,170.0     288.2     1194.4      1482.6
World Bank Sector Project                  55.2      334.8     390.0       33.8      337.0       370.8
Eximbank Loan                              50.0      100.0     150.0       32.5      117.5       150.0
Intemal cash & other financing            816.0     983.2    1,799.2      346.9      585.8       932.7
la US 41 million from Bank Loan No. 2969-PH.
lb US 59 million from Bank Loan No. 2969-PH.



Table 9: Economic Cost and Benefits
IPP Generation/Transmission                            NPC's own Generation & Transmission from 1989
Purchased  Assumed  Incremental Purchased    Fuel   Transmission Total costs NPC Sales NPC Capex    Fuel   Transmission Total Costs  Economic  Net
power  Installed MW   MW      power cost Appropriatio Apportioned    SM   of own   Generation Apportioned Apportioned  $M       Benefits   Economic
GWH     @70% PF               $M=Million  n cost M   Cost M            power GWH   1994 SM    Cost M      Cost M               Valued per  Benefit S
kWh 0.07     M
1989        0                                        0.00       0.00      0.00     21180    1591.36    612.49       323.65   2527.51     1482.60 (1,044.91)
1990       87         14.2      14.2      0.63       3.62       1.19      5.44     22828      327.46    790.31      311.89   1429.66     1604.05   168.96
1991      614        100.1      85.9    23.84       28.49       4.60     56.92     22984      256.70    883.83      172.07   1312.60     1651.86   282.34
1992     1142        186.2      86.1    48.74       45.65       5.41     99.80     22816      545.05    752.46      108.05   1405.56     1677.06   171.7
1993     4322        704.8     518.6   135.78      135.73      40.55    312.07     20483      916.51    513.44      192.19   1622.14     1736.35  (197.86)
1994     8866       1445.9     741.0   357.12      270.62      62.59    690.34     19880    1144.30    460.57       140.35   1745.22     2012.22  (423.34)
1995    12288       2003.9     558.1    402.97     290.85      154.13    847.95    18068      376.07    307.90      226.62    910.60     2124.92   366.38
1996    13305       2169.8     165.9   622.98      359.24     310.88   1293.10     20105    1181.22    461.41       469.77   2112.41     2338.70 (1,066.81
1997    18605       3034.1     864.3   859.45      502.34     407.42   1769.20     17912    1259.62    411.08       392.24   2062.94     2556.19 (1,275.95)
1998    24427       3983.5     949.4   814.42      659.53     314.64   1788.59     16103      910.91    369.56      207.42   1487.90     2837.10  (439.39)
1999    28532       4653.0     669.4   1112.99     770.36     281.87   2165.22     14208      774.03    326.07      140.36   1240.46     2991.80  (413.88)
2000    32534       5305.6     652.6   1055.95     878.42      161.64   2096.01    13713      419.50    314.71       68.13    802.35     3237.29   338.9
2001    33956       5537.5     231.9   1068.29     916.81      177.47   2162.58    15117      410.11    346.94       79.01    836.05     3435.11   436.4
2002    37841       6171.1      633.6   1214.33    1021.71      92.23   2328.27    15871      308.60    364.24       38.68    711.52      3759.84   720.
2003    42524       6934.8     763.7   1337.40    1148.15      143.38   2628.93    15435      391.52    354.23       52.04    797.79      4057.13   630.41
2004    46077       7514.2      579.4   1382.39    1244.08     128.73   2755.20    16373      395.07    375.76       45.74    816.58      4371.50   799.72
2005    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266      389.19    488.05       33.02    910.26      4714.01   959.
2006    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1   o
2007    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2008    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2009    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2010    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2011    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2012    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2013    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2014    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2015    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.13
2016    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.13
2017    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.13
2018    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2019    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.13
2020    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.13
2021    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2022    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2023    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
2024    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.13
2025    46077       7514.2             1528.20    1244.08       71.54   2843.81    21266                488.05       33.02    521.07      4714.01  1,349.1
NPV   185923.3                 3253.0   7003.3    5048.5       1009.8  12425.0  192661.0       5988.6    5153.0      1723.9   12865.5
@10%
Costs/US                                    3.77      2.72        0.54     6.68                  3.11      2.68        0.90       6.68      ERR.    13.5%
cents/kWh



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
a) Loan 3163-PH: National Power Corporation
Original   Revised
Covenant Present  Fulfillment Fulfillment
greement Section  type      status    Date      Date      Description of Covenant                                    Comments
LA         3.03        2         C                         Conclude agreement with PNOC for steam price               Completed
LA         4.04       3,12      CD    Each                 NPC shall furnish its investment plan annually to the Bank for  Project development program has been provided
November            review and comment.                                        annually to the Bank
LA         4.05       2. 12     NC    12/31/90   09/30/94  NCI shall implement first phase of plan. Agreed with the Bank, to   Demand charges could not be introduced under 6 to 8
introduce LRMC - based tariffs by correcting the mis-allocation.    hours power outages. .A proposal for a new demand
charges in Luzon was prepared to ERB in June 1993
to be implemented in September 1994. Proposal for
Visayas and Mindanao was followed
LA         4.06        5,9       CD    06/30/90            NPC shall prepare and implement training program for its staff and  A satisfactory training program was prepared and
furnish results to the Bank for review and comment.        implemented under loan 2969-1 (since this loan has
been fully committed)
LA         5.01 (b)     1       CD    July 1               By July 1 of each year. NPC will furnish an audit report from an  Audit reports were submitted after due date.
& (c)                                           auditor acceptable to the Bank for its financial statements, Special
Account and SOE.
LA         5.02 (a)    2, 9     CD    Annual                NPC shall earn for Its fiscal years, after its fiscal year ending on  RORs in 1991(3.3%); 1992 (8.0%); 1993 (6.2%); and
Dec. 31, 1990, an annual return of not less than 8% of the average  1994 (8.3%)
current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation.
LA         5.02 (b)    1,9             Annual               NPC shall (before Dec. 1 in each fiscal year), on the basis of  Defaulted. Assets not revalued since 12187. ROR
prepared forecasts and satisfactory to the Bank, review if it would  estimates below 8% for 1989-91. NPC approved a
meet the requirements set forth.                          tariff increase in 3/91 but was blocked by Supreme
court and ERB.
LA         5.03 (a)    2, 4     CD    Annual               NPC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its  Debt service ratio for 1991 (0.5); 1992 (0.8); 1993
revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be  (0.9); and 1993 (1.3). Deficient cash situation in 1992
incurred shall be at least 1.3 times its estimated debt service  even after tariff increase, require measures (including
requirements in such year on all its debt including the debt to be    authorization of tariff adjustment with oil prices and
incurred.                                                  exchange rates)
LA         6.01 (b)    4        CD      12/31190  06/25/92  JEXIMBANK loan shall become effective by Dec. 31, 1990.   JEXIM loan signed June 25. 1992. signing of loan
agreement delayed due to NPC's financial situation.
Initially implementation was very slow.
(coiiiiucutd)



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
b) Loan 3164-PH: Philippines National Oil Corporation
Original   Revised
Covenant Present  Fulfillment Fulfillment
reement Section  Type    Status   Date       Date     Description of Covenant
LA        3.01 (b)    3    C                            PNOC shall relend $ 147, 000, 000 out of the proceeds of the Loan toPNOC- Satisfactory.
EDC and PETRON under two separate subsidiary loan agreements to be
entered into between PNOC and PNOC-EDC, and PNOC and PETRON,
respectively, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank.
LA        4.03        5    C                            Maintain insurance                                               Satisfactory.
LA        4.04        12    C.       November           PNOC shall, by November 15 of each year, prepare its investment plan, for   Satisfactory.
15                 geothermal and refinery bottlenecking activities, for the forthcoming year and
for the following four years and fumish such plan to the Bank for its review and
comment.
LA        4.05        5    C         6/30/90            PNOC shall, by June 30, 1990, prepare and thereafter implement a training    Several training programs were
program for its staff in engineering operations, maintenance and management implemented. However,
and fumish the results to the Bank for review and comment.      Govemment required grant
financing for foreign trainings.
Satisfactory.
LA        5.01 (b)    1    CD        July 1             By July 1 of each year, PNOC shall fumish audited financial statements and   Satisfactory; delayed by COA
& (c)                                        the records and accounts for the Special Account and statement of
expenditures for the year just conduded, along with the report of an acceptabie
auditor.                                                                                        cc
LA        5.02        2    C                            PNOC shall take all measures required on its part to increase PNOC-EDC's   PNOC increased PNOC-EDC's
and PETRON's share capital, inter-company loans and other means for raising equity in 1989.
funds to enabie PNOC-EDC and PETRON to carry out their obligations
pursuant to the Project Agreement.
LA        5.03       2,3   C                            PNOC shall, or shall cause PNOC-EDC to take all actions which may be  Completed.
required on its part to ensure the timely conclusion of the agreement between
PNOC-EDC and NPC for the supply of the steam needed for the Project.
PA        3.04        11    CP        Annual            PNOC-EDC and PETRON shall, by November 15 of each year, prepare  Satisfactory
investment plans for the forthcoming year and for the following four years and
fumish such plan to the Bank for its review and comment.
PA        4.01 (b)    1    CD         July 1            By July 1 of each year PNOC-EDC and PETRON will fumish audited financial Delayed by COA
statements for the year just concluded, along with the report of an acceptabie
auditor.
PA        4.02        2    C          Annual            PNOC-EDC & PETRON shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current  Satisfactory
liabilities of not less than 1.0.
PA        4.03        2    C          Annual            PNOC-EDC & PETRON shall not incur any debt, if after the insurance of such  Satisfactory
debt, the debt to equity ratio shall exceed 70/30.
PA        4.04       2,3   C          Annual            For the period of the loan, PNOC-EDC shall not incur debt unless a reasonable Satisfactory
forecast affirms that it will maintain a debt service ration of at ieast 1/2.
(continued)



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
c) Loan 3165-PH: Govemment of the Philippines
Original  Revised
Covenant Present   fulfillment fulfillment
greement Section  type     status    date     date      Description of covenant                                   Comments
LA        3.01        5        CD    Dec. 31,  Dec 31,  Strengthening of EMB's Operational capabilities; establishment of
1993     1995     baseline sampling stations; strengthening of regional offices; and
technical assistance. Quarterly coordination meetings were conducted
and reports were submitted quarterly.
LA        3.03        5         C                        A Project Implementation Committee with memberships, powers and  Committee under the chairmanship of OEA
functions acceptable to the Bank was constituted for monitoring and   was established until DOE was re-
coordination of all activities under the Project.         established.
LA        4.01         1        CD                       By July 1 of each year, the Govemment will fumish audited reports   No expenditure in 1990 was allowed.
regarding the records and accounts for the Special Account and  Congress limited the annual budget for
statements of expenditures. In addition, by July 1 of each year NEA  some components, particularly for EMB
will fumish audited financial statements for the year just concluded    and DOE.
along with the report of an acceptable auditor.
LA        4.02        4         CD                       The Govemment shall make an equity contribution to NEA in an
amount of US $22,200,000.
Minutes of Negotiations
Para. 3.    10       CD    annual             Implement the Energy Policy Framework                      The plan was satisfactory implemented but   %O
with some delays. The revised and updated
version was incorporated in an Energy
Sector Plan approved by Cabinet on
January 1, 1993 and was being monitored.
Status:
C = Covenant complied wih                        Covenant type:
CD = Complied with after delay                     1 = AccountVAudits
CP = Complied with partially                       2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficaries
NC = Not complied with                             3 = Flow and utilization of project funds
4 = Counterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of project or executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
Io = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
I I = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatoryfinsttutional action
13 = Other



30
Table 11: Compliance wlth Operation Manual Statements
|Statement number and tftle                       Description and comment on lack of compliance
None                                       No significant lack of compliance with
applicable Bank manual statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stages of                                       Staffweek                               Amount
project cycle                                     Actual                               US$('ooo)
hrough Appraisal                                  98.8                                 180.9
ppraisal-effectiveness                            47.0                                  98.8
upervision                                       169.5                                 373.0
Completion                                          12                                   22.5
rOTALplanned/                                    327.3                                 6674.3



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Specialized   Performance rating
Stages of  Month/   Number of SW in  staff skills    Implement Develop. Types of
project cycle Year   persons\1  field:  represented    status    impact  problems
Through appraisal   Nov/Dec       9      N/A EEc, ES, FA(2),    .
PrS, PE, Ree,
SC EM
June/July      11      N/A ES(2), PE, PE,
1989                   PrS, PE, L, FA,
EM, L.
Nov. 1989        5 11/19189  PE(2), ES,FA  advance          NPC to reduce procurement of 20MW Geothermal Modular steam turbine generators to ten; procurement to
to     Constant., procure-        proceed in two stages, first submission of technical bids, and following their evaluation, price bids and
12/8/89                ments           financial proposals to be invited in second stage.
NPC's revaluation of assets and increase in fuel prices may require significant changes in price to meet the
8% Rate of Retum.
upervision I   June 1990         2  6/11890       EE, PE          1       1 Difficufties in ICB Procurement e.g. 20 MW geothermal modular units, transmission line, equipment and
to                                materials
6/30/90
Supervision If   Mar 1991         4  3/11/91   EEc, FA, PE,        1       '1 Disbursement progressing as scheduled for NPC, PNOC. No disbursement for NEA due to delays on-lending
to           PS                    arrangements between the Government and NEA. Delays in budget appropriation may affect procurement of
3/22/91                                OEA, ERB. Request for 100% Bank financing. Bank agreed to amend the Loan agreement as requested,
except 95% for works on 7/23/91.
Delays in implementation of long-run marginal cost pricing. Implementation to be made by end Sept. 1991.
Co-financing with JEximbank not finalized
Supervision lla   June 1991       1 6/24/91  FA                              NPC financial performance in 1990 was unsatisfactory. Govermment bail out of US$280 million and tariff
to                                      increase from Jan. 1992 of about 0.27 kWh required.
7/04/91
Supervision lla   June 1991       1  5/30/91           ES    _          _    PNOC needs to sign a steam price contract with NPC, as agreed in the case of all Luzon. NPC in financial
(limited                                  to                                 crisis & delays in tariff increase based on revalued assets.
supervision)                         6113/91                                 Geothermal projects commercially not feasible at Natib and Pinatubo; delays in obtaining environmental
clearance at Bulusan.
Supervision llb    Sept.-Oc       1  9/23/91            FA     _        _    1990 financial performance unsatisfactory and could deteriorate further. Require Gov. bail-out of about
(limited mission)   1991           to10/2/9                                  USS280 million. Financial irregularities & inefficiencies in financial management observed New conditions: 6%
1                                 ROR on revalued assets; satisfactory cash position with out additional Gov. contributions; potential difficultles
for all NPC loans.
Supervision lic                   1  8110/91           PE                    Reviewed issues related to small hydro-power development e.g. avoided cost, implementation options, etc.,
(limited mission)                         to
16/10/91
Supervision III    Nov. 1991      4 11/18/91  FA (2), PE, ES       2        1 Financial crisis likely to delay projects like Leyte Geothermal, and Japanese Loan of US$150 million not likely
tol 1/28/                                to be approved NPC's & PNOC's loans are being executed satisfactorily Sector coordination and other
91                                 legislation lagging.
Difficufties in confirming BOT/BTO and/or because of delays of environmental decisions. Potential energy
crisis. Bank mission recommended loan suspension.
Disbursement slow for loan 3165-PH due to counter part funding. Delays in approving bills to establish DOE.
Delays in approving ECC for Bulusan for three years.
EE - Energy Economist. ES - Encrgy Specialist; FA - Financial Analyst; PE - Power Enginecr; PS - Pctrlcum Specialist



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Specialized   Performance rating
Stages of  Month/   Number of SW in  staff skills    Implement Develop. Types of
project cycle Year  persons\1  field:  represenled   status    impact  problems
Supervision IV   June/July       4 06/17/92 FA (2), PE,ES                   NPC: defaulted on financial covenants (ROR %) below 8%. Required Gov. bail out partly due to delays on
1992                    to                                 P0.17/kwh increase approved by the Board in Feb 1991. Under the agreed Reform Program of Sept. '91 Bank
07/3/92                               waved the 8% ROR for 92 , if NPC achieve 6%, and not require cash contribution from GOP. Restructuring of
NPC tariffs, a revenue-neutral way designed to introduce demand charges equivalent to 30% of present
billings delayed(expected implementation by Sept. 1992). Sucat plant had four blackouts after being
rehabilitated at cost of US$130 million.
Delays in training program Implementation and in sending audit reports for SOE and special account.
PNOC-EDC: Pinatubo (acid wells), Natib & Cagua areas due to lack of commercially viability of the steam
reserves.
Bulusan awaiting environmental clearance of DENR. Utilization of loan uncertain due to uncertainty over
drilling of wells at Labo & Bulusan.
PNOC-Petron: implementation behind time. Cost of project US$27.3 m compare to S65.5m at appraisal.
OEA's Energy Policy Frame: satisfactory: but DENR has yet to release the ECC for Masinloc & Pagbilao
Plants. Similar delays (Calaca II coal & Bulusan geothermal) has stopped for more than three years Delays in
elimination of the 8 years royalties to give incentive for geothermal development Restructuring relationship
between petroleum prices require the completion of energy pricing. Out of US$4.4 million only US$0.52million
disbursed. NEA: audit report for SOE was overdue; Need to set a Steering Committee(ERB, OEA, NPC,
PNOC. NEA) to review the energy pricing study, so that its conclusions can be applied EMB: only 2% of
US$10.4 million loan disbursed due to Gov. budgetary appropriation.
Supervision lvb    Nov. 1992      1  11/2/92           PS    _              Problems associated with drilling low pressure volcanic rocks under the extremely high temperature
to                                characterized most of PNOC-EDC geothermal fields resulting in hole drilling fluid loses, stuck drilling strings
11/6/92                               and inadequate casing cementing. PNOC-EDC coping well. But need to contract out intemational experience
and improve its drilling capacity.
Supervision V   Aug. 1993         3   N/A to    FA, EE, ES        2        1 NPC: Audit report not received as of Sept. 1993. Disbursement were to stop if audit not received by October
(supervision done                    8/30/93                                30, 1993. Tariff approval needed to ensure ROR 8%. PNOC: legislative change on royalty and provision of
with evaluation of                                                          other incentive needed for privatization Loan 3165-PH: loan disbursement substantially delayed for DOE &
the Sector                                                                  EMB. EMB suffers from reduced budgetary appropriation
Structure)
Supervision VI    June 1994       2 6/6/94 to      PE, FA         S       S NPC: extension of loan requested to complete civil works & foundation works at Palinpinon Geothermal
6/30/94                                stations due to unexpected ground condition found during construction. Implementation of JExim component
delayed due to the prolonged brownout and transfer some components to loan 3163-PH.
PNOC: Contracts for refinery awarded in March 1994 after delays in award. Extension of loan required.
Loan 3165-PH: Delays in disbursement, loan extension required.
Supervision Via   Jan. 1995       1     _ to            E    _         _    Reviewed the status oc EMB. agreed on use of the remaining fund under loan. Availability of counterpart
(limited                             1/26/95                                funding was still an issue.
supervision)
Completion       Feb./Mar         1  2/25/95           FA              _    ICR mission.
1996               to 03/95
I-E - Encrgy Economist; ES - Energy Specialist; FA - Financial Analyst; PE - Power Engineer; PS - Petroleum Specialist



ANNEX B: SECTOR SPECIFIC DATA
Table 1: Cumulative Actual and Planned Installed Generating Capacity 1993-2010
Megawatts (MW)
Actual                                                               Department of Energy Forecast
Type                   1993     1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010
Hydro                 2259      2323    2325    2332    2360    2374    2390    2397    2700    3089    3246    3553    4456    4910    4927    4930    4933    4989
coal                   441      441      1441    1441    1441    2041    3241    3541    3991    5236    6236    6736    6736    7236    9236    12036   15436   18036
Geothermal            11018    1094    1211    1431    1471    1991    1991    2111            211     2111    2111    2111    2151    2151    2151          1926    1926    1926
Oil-Thermal            1985     1985    1985    1685    1685    1485    1135          285      285       60      60       60       60       60       60       60       60       60
Diesel                 1016     1967    1967    2001    2089    2171    2165    2122    2103    2103    2103    2103    2103    2103    2103    2103    2103    2103
Combined-Cycle          -        180      180      180      180      180     330      330      330      330      330      330      330     330      330      330      330      330
(CC)
Gas Twbine              -         -        -                 -        -        -      1350    1800    2700    3150    3150    3150    3150    3150    3150    3150    3150
Gas Combined-           -         -        -        -        -        -        -       25       25       50      50       75       75       100      100      125      125      125
Cycle
Total           8014     9285    10404   10395   10611   11627   12637   14146   15330   16569   18421   20053   21796   23834   26292   29195   32598   35704



Table 2: Phases Of Power Sector Restructuring and Privatization
Phase L: Strengthen and Restructure Industry             Phase 2: Evaluate results, implement further            Phase 3: Move into final structure and competetive
restructuring and privatize                             environments
Time Frame: 1994-1998 (4-5 years)                        Time Frame: 1998-1999 (2 years)                         Time Frame: 1999-2004 (4-5) years)
Objectives: Stregthen all sectors and participants in the  Objectives: Evaluate results and industry performance; set  Objectives: Achieve full restructuring and decentralized
industry; restructure generation and transmission; establish  final restructuring goals; adopt policies that accelerate  planning: establish fully effective competetion in generatio,
coordination and arrangements and prepare industry fr    participants' growth into new structure and responsibilities:  retail sales and resouce planning: monitor competiveness and
increased completio, privatization aand decentralization.  privatize generation                                  industry performance.
Major Activities:                                        Major Activities:                                        Major Activities:
*   Unbundle generation horizontally and vertically      *   Conduct key evaluation ( e.g. competetive conditions;  *   Implement programs determined by assessing
*   Unbundle transmission                                     success of utility IRP, coordination arrangements and   development of the industry under the restructuring and
*   Unbundle hydroelectric to hydro authority                 regulatory programs.                                    privatization intiatives
*   Decentralize planning responsbility and adopt all source    *   Make structural goal adjustments; re-visit workability of   *   Extend practces such as retail whelling and retail sales
IRP                                                      "English" model in Luzon; improve coordination           competition
*   Establish opreations coordination arrangemens             aggangements                                        *   Adopt incentive regulatory schemes proven to be
*   Rationalize pricing                                  .   privatize Generation: sell Mindanao and Visayas          effective
*   Stregthen disbursment sector                             subsidiaries; select aand implement final Luzon      *   Monitor cometitiveness, market behavior and the
*   Promote private particpation in generation (IPP bidding.  generation privatization plan                           potential for market dominance
ROM, etc)                                           .   Expand retail wheeling
*   Stregthen regulatory and policy agencies             *   Implement policies to achieve utilitie' adoption to new
*   Stremline NPC threogh additional susbsidaries;           structure
rationalize staffing levels
Major Results:
Major Results:                                          Major Results:
*   NPC power supply susbsidaries in Mindano, Visayas, &                                                          *   Full functioning of all utilities under decentralized
Luzon                                               *   Adjustments to structural and ownwership goals            decion making
*   NPC national transmission subsidary responsible for  .   Adjustments to regulartory oversight and policy      *   Comptetive generation markets
transmission, dispatch and opreations coordination of    programs                                            *   Competetive retail sails markets
planning from national perspective                  *   Improved IRP and coordinated utility planning        .   Widely practiced, state of the art IRP
*   RP Hydro Development Authority                       *   Enhanced opretions coordinations; full economic      *   Innovative regulatory incentive programs
*   Integrate resouce planning by all utilities               dispatch on all grids                               *   Effcient inter- andintra-grid coordinated operations.
*   Coordination arrangements to achieve effcient        *   Privatized generation
operations and planning                             *   Increased competition: generation, retail sales, supply
*   Transperent, unbundled prices                            side vs. demand side resouces
*   Increased private partiepation in generation         *   Imptpvements in structure and performance of
*   Regulatory programs that improve distribution             distribution sector
performance and rationalize structure
*   Improved regulatory and policy capabilities
*   Streamline NPC






Ano-x- A
35                                  I'a|gc I of I
Bacon Nlanito Geothermal Power Project (Loans 29690-PH and 29691-PH)
Energy Sector Project (Loans 3163-PH, 3164-PH and 3165-PH)
February 1996 ICR Completion Mlission
AI DE-M EN101 RE
1.    A World Bank Completion Mission comprising Messrs. John Irving (Scnior Powecr
Engincer - Task Managcr), Josc R. Escay (Consultant) and P. Vcnugopal (Consultant) visited
Manila, with overlapping stays, during the period February 12-27, 1996, to hold discussions with
the following cntities, and (a) complcte the ICR of the Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Projcct
and (b) collect the balance ol' data and borrowers' evaluation reports for the ICR of the Energy
Sector Projcct:
(a)  Departmcnt of Energy (DOE) - Loan 3165-PH
- Office of the DOE
-   National Electrification Administration (NEA)
-   Energy Rcgulatory Board (ERB)
-   Environmental Management Bureau (EMB)
(b)  National Power Corporation (NPC) - Loans 29691-PH and 3163-PH
(c)  Philippinc National Oil Company (PNOC) - Loans 29690-PH and 3164-PH
- PNOC Holding Company
-   PNOC-Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC)
-   PETRON Corporation (PETRON)
2.    The mission wishes to cxpress its deep appreciation for the cooperation and hospitality
extended to it by the above cntities. The list of ofrficials met by the mission is given in Annex 1.
This Aide-Mcmoirc summarizcs the findings and conclusions of the mission, that arc subject to
confirmation by Bank management.
Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Project
3.    NPC and PNOC-EDC, on behalf of PNOC (borrower), prcsented the mission with
abbreviated versions of their rcspective evaluation reports, that will form part of the ICR. The
ICR, finalized in the field, was given to NPC and PNOC-EDC for review. Lctters havc been
received from them accepting the ICR (Annex 2).
Energy Sector Project
4.    For Loan 3165-PH, DOE prepared a combined borrower's evaluation report covering its
own subprojects with those of NEA and ERB. A separate evaluation rcport was provided by
ERB. For Loan 3164-PH, PNOC-EDC and'PETRON provided their individual evaluation reports
to the mission. For Loan 3163-PH, NPC prepared a l'inal evaluation report.
5.    For calculation of the Economic Rate of Retum (ERR), the mission obtained from PNOC-
EDC and NPC the required data rclating to energy sector investments during the project timc-slicc.
Both cntitics have agreed to funmish the Bank with any other information and data that may be
required for this purpose.
6.    Prior to finalization of the ICR in Washington, draft copies wvill bc sent to the borrowers
for their rcvicw and comments.



Appendix B
36
BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
FOR WORLD BANK LOAN 3163-PH
ENER        'OROJCT
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
February 21, 1996



37
A.  STATEMlENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT' OBJECT IVES
Discussions of thie completed Energy Sector Study resulted in thie agreement: between
tlhe CGoveriinmenit anid the Blank oni the (levelopmenit strategy to be puisueid in thle eniergy sector.
The componienits of tihaL strategy are: (a) development ot a sector-wide capability to plan for
energy resource and to coordinate policy implemilenitationi in the sector; (b) adoption of the
least-cost developmienit strategies for the various energy subsectors; (c) strengthening othile
regulatory activities, witlh thle initentionis of niationializinig conisuLmler energy prices and
imnprovinig procluct stanidards and quality of service;  (di) encouragemilenit of private sector
throughi joinit venitures and oclher schemiies; (e) improvement of elivironimenical stand(lards and
moniitoring0 in areas of hiighi energy use or resource developmilent: and (t) enihiancemilenit of tli
techinical capabilities of sector institutionis, particularly OEA, ERB all(n EMt3. 'I'lle proposed
project thius hias two coimplemiienitary but distinlct objectives: tile first is to assist the
Governmelit to imiplemilenit the agreed strategy, and tihe seconid is to hielp tile Government to
finanice a time-slice of its investimienit program) for tile period 1989-93.
The projects will be co-finianiced by the World Bank and( Japan Eximbaiik. The Banlk
will review togethier will tile Government and tihe conicernietl entiiies, tile appproved projects
and finialized tlhe list ot coimponienits to be funde(d by ilhe World Banlk and(l Japiani Eximilbanik
loans. Thle list of projects eligible for finianicinig are listed in Aninlex 3-4 of the Staft Appraisal
Report.
B.  ACHIEVENIENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Uncder thle generationi expanision, the constructioni of Palinpinon 11 Modular Geothermal
llower P1lant comminilciced on May 13, 1992. 'I'lTe lirst uniit located in Nasuiji was synchronized
to the gri(d oni Decemiiber 13, 1993 and started its commercial operation oni February 1. 1994.
Trhe seconl(d unit located in Okoy was synchronized to tlhe grid on November 28, 1994 anid
started its commercial operation oii l)ecember 22, 1994. 'I'lTe i iir(l atd 11  tourtli units )oth
located in Sooonoon were synichironiized ont JanLuary 28, 1995 and April 22, 1995 respectively.
wiliie the comimiiercial operation of boti uniits static(l on F ebruitry 18, 1995 and Mlay 5, 1995
respectively.
For tile generation plant rehabilitation, ilhe contract for tlhe Rehabilitationi of A niuklao
Hlydroeleciric Plant was teriniieatedl effective November  1, 1(i1. 'I'le l)rojcct %%as iIistea(lS
impleented undir the Rehahil iate:-Operete -l .easehack  (       CR ( )la.) L'Oi racst I);C ' 1)  ct mist)1itrll ll
lheadle(d between Ml     LC('O  hIdustrial Lnglineening Services ( orpol ion  NII .S((o) .
Morrisoni--K iid(iscin Corporation. Mi ndanao Sh ipbuild(ng  orptwalion and I1.G(..S. n11i l.nat n mal
(Corporation. Te'lc project is still onigoing and exl)pected (t be comiipleted by F hriaiary 1997.
The procure metll ol 69 KV transminission Ii tie materialIs tOr L.uzon , Visayas, Mindanito
and tlhe SinI  I Islaind (Grid were comI)lete(l. 'Ilte constructltio/Icect ion will be fi miaincetd hy
Japan LIximnhank (70%) and NPC''s linterinll Cash G eierat ion (I('(;) (30%). Soni1c of lhle
tranisimiissioni linies especially in Luzoni and Visayas were ailready(i , erecte(d anI ceiergiLed.
- i'age i or 6 -



38
The iiicreimenital workiing capital wilichl is consist of spare parts and initial iliveniories
of fuel for newly installe(d power plants were procurel in accor(lanlce witil tlic Bank's
guidelines.
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Problems/Causes of Delny:
1. In Procuring Goods and Works
a.  Complex and cumbersome procuremleiit procedures.
b.  Rigid government procurement procedures.
c.  Rigid governmenit procurement regulations/rules.
d.  Lack of counterpart funds for local procureiment or delay in release of such
funds.
e.  Failure of supplier to comply withi thie provisionis of contract.
f.  Cost overruns.
2. .In Constructioni Managemenit
a.  Delay in provi(ding enginieering designis.
b.  Chaniges in work specificationis/coiuract con(litionts.
c.  Poor quality of contractors work.
d.  Finianicial problems on the part of contractor.
e.  Riglit-of-way problems.
3.  In Organizinig anid Staffing of Project Office
a.  Weak or inappropriate organizational structure
b.  Staff appointe(l for project implementation  niot being  inivolvcd  in the
preparationl or appraisal of the project.
4. In Makinig the Loani Effective
- Page 2 or 6 -



39
a.  Delay in obtaining approval froim lihe ratifyinig agenicy.
b.  Delay in complyinig witlh special coniditionis lor loan effectiveness suclh as
organizationi of a project office, appointment of a Project Manager, anid
acquisitioni of lanid riglhts-of-way.
Solution to the Problem:
1.  In the procuremenit of spare parts, the list of iteins (o be finianced slhould be
prepared witlh somie mneclhaiiism  for tlexibility, in order to avoid freqluellt Banlk
approvals for clhanges iliade in tile list.
2.  In the conistructioni, the qualification and finanicial capability of the contractors
shiould be carefully evaluated so thiat the project will niot suffer a (lelay due to Lile
contractors inefficienicy.
3.  The  right-of-way  shiould  be cleared  first before a project could  start the
conistructioni.
D.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
I'lie project generated beenefits inistantly as the niewly operationi ot' 80 MW  Palinpiion
11 and tile conistructed tranisimiissionl line circuits were energize(l.  Significati savings were
ach ievedl in ftuel usedl byl diesel plants, gas turbines aniid mobile power barges along thle
Visayas Grid, which  were nio longer recquired to op)erate (lurinig peakl load perio(ds.  Thle
1'roject's sus mai nabi lity appears to be assured, althiotughi it (lependcls oni the realizatdion of
aIssuImlptioIns used( iI thile econloIllic re-evalunat ion, inclu(idilg: I) coIltliniued roItline ima;lilintenince
by NPC of all gri(d nietwor-k components fromil tile geotlierimall fields in Negros Occidenmal to
ilte Nl'C  disiribut ion  l'acililies in Luiz.oii, Visayas, Mindanao and the i inall Island Grid(
transimission lilles atilnL substations (wli icli slo(u I he inspecte(l 1'roii timine io hiuiie), and  2) the
ability ot tile geoltielrimall falcilities at Palinpinon 11 to cominue generating electricity. Tllis
depends primarily oni N l'('s provision of adequale in iencii      hillinc s ind l(a on pr)esohmiliel at thec
geotlicimal;l t.sicili, iuntLiiil tlie ciend ot' tlc  lrojct'.s i' . Nl'( is aware of1 its c..lilili t
a1deq(ILately lla littlill tile 'dllinp inon ftacilities and it is curr-eli ly iiivolved( in I'urteil r ldevelop)i i'
thle geotlhermiial resources.
Spa;'r paris and initial inventories of F'utel loi- eLvly imisiallcd l)owvr pla)laits p-rocred
hialve contriblted to thec i mproveient ot'  aintluenanc  ol' Nl'(I s power fIacilities iII 1AIL0, n
Visayas anid Mindanao.
- Iag. .1 of 6 -



40
E.  BANK PERFOR.MANCE
The Bank's performanice in adminiisterinig tie imnplemiienitationi of the lProject was
generally satisfactory.  NPC's reqiuest for clianges in allocations, extensions ot loan closing
dates were created withl tlexibility.  However, it is niote(d that the Banik liad lililite(d review
mission.
F.  BORROWER PERFORIANCE
The  performance  ot  the  Borrower/Executing  Agency  (NPC),  waIs  genierally
sauisfactory. I-lowever, N13C was inot able to ensure timely acquisition of land(s and rigiht-of-
way, caLisi ng delays in erection/conistructioni works.  Also, ti ie-consu ini ig procurement
procedures of NPC  and( the Governimlenit were aimonig the miajor causes for delays in
implememitatioii. Furilter, prequalificationi proce(lures of NPC were niot effective enouighi Lo
eliiminate contraccors/suppl iers with finianicial problemils.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
TIhe Project is consi(lered generally successftul on (ie basis of its satisfactory Econiomilic
Interinal Rate of Returin (EIRR) anld Finaniciial Internal Rate of lReturii (FlRR) results, and
because it lias fully achiieved its objectives.
I1.  FUTURE OPERATION
Nl'C Management, in its effort to direct   the overall emiployee efforts towards tile
achlieven'ment of ithe corporate imissioni ot- provi(linig etficienit, reliaible and economic to tlhe
con nitr', developed and adopted in April 1995 thle Pro(diuctivity E1ifliancemen Proagramn (P1ll'),
a mecihaniisimi to reward goocl perforillances. Thle program comiponlenits andl brietf description
of the procedures follows:
1.  Performianice Targets
Witihin tile first quarter of every year, tlie corporaie sets tlhe amimiLal (:orporate
p:l)rolill.lice tifgctS wIlichl shoutil(d resutilt 6-01ro  con1sUIltat1ion and dLisCLsionl wiltl all
the funlctionial groups.  h'lle targets are imia(le in tihe lOlowing, plerlOrmillaice facltOrs
or key indlicators:
199.95 T'argets
a.  Capacity -Adclition2
- genieraitioni capacity in imiegaiwaitts         =       1.,28 MW
- transmi ission  lines in circuilt kilomiieters  =        705 ck in
- substation capacity in mnilliont volt-ampere    =       I 00((  NI VA
- tIage 4 of 6 -



41
b.  System  Efficienicy                                =        96.92
c.  Reliability Indicator                              =        0.31
d.  Operating Ratio                                    =        0.80
e.  Collection Efficiency                              =        39 days
f.  Otliers
Eaclh work group (i.e. fulictionial group/regional centier, department anid dlivision)
sliall prepare  its perforiniice targets anid worki programii in support of' ilte
corporate target.  Suclh Eargets andl stanidards shiall he agree(d uppoin by both ilhe
lhea(d of the work group and hiis/lher immediate superior, and coinfirmiiedl by thle
next hiighier supervisor.
2.  Performance Standards
Pert'ormanice indlicators are inidicators of desirability anidl acceptability in relation
co targets estaiblishied. The targets are expressed in terims of average or norilial
expectation or as an i(leal expectation. To enisure commiiiioni understanding in (le
perforilianice standards and to forestall confusion in the assessment ot' actual
performance, tle standards for tlie ratinogs of Ouistaniding. Very Satisfactory, anld
satisfactory shall be established in eachi performanice ftactor at tlhe timle of target
setting.
3.  Performance Evaluation and Appraisal
Every six (6) montls, an evaluation of pertormanlice will be coniducted an(d thie
accomiiplishlimlenits will be appraisedl vis-ia-vis targets and standards. The corporate
pert'orimaniice shall be apprailsed by the Management Coimiimilttee and reviewed by
ttie Nil Board and, at thie national goverinimlenit, the Goveriiinent Corporationis
Monitoring and Coordiniatinig Commoiittee.  In  assessing ach ievemuent level of
performanlce targets, thle actual performiianlce shall be comiipared( against stanldard
set.
4.  Pertormiianice Iicenitive Bolnus
The actual pertormiance levels on tile corporate and group targets slal (Ileterminile
tlle actual allmouL 1 of bolnus to be granltedt.
'I'lTe overall COIQ)orate l)erlormanc for tlie period January-November 1 995 reaclhetd a
SATIS FACTORY'V level.  Based o1 ili.s satisfactory pertormaalice and eollais Stet  Willi [lie
pertinlen or-ders fromil  e nIa tioLal governimieat (24 Mvarlcli 1 9)4 Memiorandumn (OIrder No. 1'98
of MvI.alacaiiatig) tie Nl' Board approved the grant of' two (2) moith perfiormance bonis to
all qualified NPC officials anid eimployees.
- P1age :5 of 6 -



42
It is worthy to talke niote thac thlis PEIP is to a great exIent assures Elie corporaltion ron  1
its emuployees a conrtinuous effort to Si-INc fo )e go)od perflOrinance (iie it) dlic iMncimii    bolLtis
component ot tile program.  Fromii tile utility op)eraions' poiLit of view tihis effOrt tor *ood
performiiance is imaniiteste(d by mainutaininlog thle reliability and(c elticienicy of Nl C gelicrati ig
ullits.
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
For NPC to maintain stifficienit cash flows to service satisfactorily future borrowin.gs.
iL m1ust conftilnue to enisure tinat tariff levels are broa(lly in linie witih tile Long-lu i Marginal
Cost (LRVMC) ot generation and traiismiiission) and thlat all user groups are charged a taritf rtiat
matches thie average LIZMC ot generation and tr.anisimiissioni. Nl'C imiust coniiie to desigi
power projects whiere tihe finianicial anid econiomlic benefits are transparent and whiere subsidies
fromii thle Governnent are niot reqIuired for aniy developmental works.
Wlheni procurement conitraicts contiaiii coistruclcioni naterials tihat experienice a sudden,
unexpected increase in price oni WorldI markers, concerted efloris shiould be undertaken by
thIe executilng agelIcy anld hlie Banik to minimiize tlie timie of hid processing anud evalualion anid
to award thie conitract withiout delay.
As tor the financing of spare parts, the list of iteims to be flianice(d should be prepared
with sonie  meclhaniisim Ior flexibility. in or(ler io avoid frequjent Batik approvals for cihaniiges
in the list. Also, procurciiiemie ot spaire parts could be simplified by groupinig similar type ot
iteims illto the saime package.
-   e 6 or 6 -



43
EVALUATION REPORT
PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
WORLD BANK LOAN NO. 3164



44
IBRD ENERGY SECTOR LOAN NO. 3164 PH
PART I - GEOTHERMAL INVESTMENTS PROGRAM (EDC)
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
The objective of the Energy Sector Project (ESP) is to orient the development strategy for the
Philippine energy sector toward minimizing the cost of energy supply. This objective which came
out as a result of the Energy Sector Study in 1988 consists of various components undertaken by
various Govemment agencies. One of these agencies is PNOC-EDC, whose share of the Energy
Sector Loan was intended to support part of the costs for the 1) completion of delineation drilling
on prospective sites in Luzon and the Visayas; 2) engineering, procurement, fabrication,
installation and commissioning of Fluid Collection and Disposal System (FCDS) at various sites
for about 380 MW; 3) drlling of additional production and reinjection wells; and 4) technical
assistance for geothermal resource assessment and engineering
The above activities are sequels to previous geothermal exploration and development activities
under the earlier projects funded by the World Bank namely: 1) the Geothermal Exploration
Project wherein geoscientific and drilling activities and technical assistance were financed under
Loan 2203 (Oct.'87-Dec.'88) and 2) the Bacon-Manito Geothermal Project wherein drilling of
additional production and reinjection wells and the delineation/appraisal of geothermal sites for
future power supply to the Luzon grid were financed under Loan 2969 (June'88-Dec'93)
World Bank Loan 3164 to PNOC amounting to USS150.0 million (of which US$133.0 million was
originally allocated to PNOC-EDC) was approved by the World Bank Board on Feb. 1, 1990, loan
agreement was signed on March 20, 1990 and was declared effective on June 12, 1990.
Financing was retroactive for eligible expenditures in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of US$8.0 million beginning April 30, 1989.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
1. Physical
a. Geothermal Exploration and Development Drilling
The geothermal development component of the Energy Sector Loan (ESL) originally
covers, among others, the drilling of a total of 76 wells (Please refer to Annex I for Well
Drilling Appraisal Target). However, due to unfavorable geothermal resource assessment in
areas such as Labo, Pinatubo, Natib and Cagua, coupled with the delay in securing
environmental pennit for Bulusan, the drilling program was altered and priority was shifted
to Leyte A. The decision to shift was backed by Mesquite's, (a third party consultant),
resource assessment of the Upper Mahiao and Malitbog sectors of Leyte A in 1991 which
confirmed PNOC-EDC's resource estimate availability in these areas. The move to focus
on Leyte A aimed to support the project's objective of completing the delineation drilling in
the Visayas. Thus, out of the total 38 wells actually drilled under the project, 28 were
located in various areas in Leyte A. (Please refer to Annex I Well Drilling Data)



45
In Bacon Mvfanito II, three wells were drilled under the project in addition to wells
earlier drilled to supply the required steam to the power plant.
b. Fluid Collection and Disposal System
An independent resource assessment of Bacon Manito II was carried out by the
Mesquite group, commissioned by PNOC EDC under a grant from USTDP. A
resource of 40 MW was confirmed and development of 2 x 20 MW modular units
was undertaken in two sectors: Botong and Cawayan. The following are the
milestones of the FCDS activities in Botong and Cawayan Sectors:
DATE
EVENTS             CAWAYAN   BOTONG
1.  FCDS Pipeline Flushing      Dec 1992    Dec 1992
2.  Pressurization               Jan 1993    Jan 1993
3.  FCDS Inauguation             Jul 1993    Jul 1993
4.  FCDS Testing/Comnmissioning  Aug 1993    Apr 1994
5.  NPC Steam Admission         Aug 1993    Apr 1997  (owd)
6.  Synchronization to the Grid  Mar 1994    May 1997  (kw)
7.  Perfonnance Test            Mar 1994    May 1997  (O"d)
The commissioning of Bacman I FCDS brings PNOC EDC's total MW capacity
to 461 as folows:
STEAMFIELD      MW CAPACITY
Tongonan I           112.5
Palinpinon I         112.5
Palinpinon Pilot       6
Palinpinon 11         80
Bacman I              110
Bacman 11             40
As a consequence of the curtailment of drling activities in the Luzon areas no
other FCDS activities were undertaken under the project other than those in
Bacman II. FCDS activities in Leyte A are currently on-going but are funded by
subsequent World Bank Loans, 3702 (for Leyte-Cebu) and 3747 (for Leyte Luzon) and
Japan Exiinbank.
c. Technical Assistance
Kingston, Reynolds, Thom and Allardyce (KRTA) has been retained by PNOC as
its third party consultant in the field of geosciences, well drilling, production and
systems engineering. Its engagement under the project was embodied under its
extended contract with PNOC EDC, covering the period 1990 to 1995.
Engagement and extension of KRTA contract was approved by the Bank.
d. Environmental Impact and Safety
The Environmental Management Division (EMD) of PNOC EDC enforces and
oversees the prescribed environmental standards. The Environmental Management
Bureau of the Government reviews environmental impact assessments prepared by
EMD prior to implementation of projects and issues compliance certificates.



46
Significant activies were undertaken by PNOC EDC  4m  complimce to vaious
environmental equirements as follows:
DATE OF
PROJECT                    EIS Complellon    ECC AcquisItion
Bacman I & 11              1985             Aug 1987, Amended
Nov 1995
Labo (exploration)         Nov 1989         Feb 1990
Cagua                      Aug 1989          Jan 1990
Natib                      Aug 1988          Sept 1988
Pinatubo                   1990 (baseline data)  exempted
NortheemNegros (exploraton)   Jun 1993       Dec 1993
Leyte A                    May 1991         May 1992
Alto Peak               July 1990         Sept1990
Upper Mahiao/Malitbog   Mar 1991          Sept 1991
Mahanagdong             Aug 1991          May 1992
EIS means Emvlonmeotal Impact Statement (A report)
ECC means Environmental Clearance Certfcate (A permtt)
Special stdies on the "Effect of Geootiemal Effluents on Rice and Soil in Bacman
Area" and the "Botong Silica Removal and Disposal" were also conducted in 1989
and 1992 respectively. The latter is stil on-going.
2. Financial
The original arnount relent by PNOC to PNOC EDC is USS133.0 miion intended to
finance the portion of the cost for the development of 380 MW in Luzon and
Visayas. This relendmg was supported by a subsidiay loan agreement between the
said two parties. Ile fint application for withdrawal was made on July 5, 1990 and
was debited against the loan account on July 24,1990. Special Dollar Account (SDA)
amounting to USS10.0 million was applied on August 19, 1990 and was disbursed on
August 22, 1990. (Please refer to Annex 2 for the Actual Loan Disbursement Schedule).
In the earty part of 1993, however, PNOC, PNOC EDC and Petron discussed the
possibility of reallocating the US$150.0 million loan amount among them. The main
objective of the reallocation is to finance the   increased  cost of Petron's
debottlenecldng projecL In view of the reduced driling and FCDS activities, PNOC
EDC presented to the Bank during its mission in April 1993 its intention to reallocate
USS15.0 million, thereby reducing its loan allocation to USS118.0 million. A formal
request for reallocation was sent to the Bank through PNOC on December 14, 1993.
A request for extension of the loan closing date from December 31, 1994 to
December 31, 1995 was also made and approved by the Bank.
As of December 31, 1995 PNOC EDC has withdrawn a total of USS118.6 million
including the unrecovered portion of the SDA of USS0.6 million. The Bank has
started its recovery of the SDA in March 1995. Final disbursement in the form of
recover of the remaining SDA is expected to be made during the first semester of
1996.



47
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
In Mt. Pinatubo, the three wells drilled under the other two earlier World Bank loans
showed poor quality of geothermal resource. PNOC EDC, nevertheless attenpted to
furtier explore the area and planned to eventually develop it.  Ten wells were
programmed under the project. Subsequent unfavorable drillng results prompted
PNOC EDC to abandon the area. Then, the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo in July 1991,
forced PNOC EDC to eventualy phase out Mt. Pinatubo from among its prospective
geothermal areas. Favorable resource assessment of the Leyte A project as mentioned
earlier, made management set aside exploration activities in Luzon and focus its priority
to the former.
PNOC EDC as a borrower was subjected to the Bank's guidelines with regard to its
procurement.  Procurement arrangements for the project followed the Bank's
prescribed procedures. Goods and services financed by the Loan were procured under
ICB.  All contracts for goods and services involving Bank financing, costing
USS1.0 million and above were subjected to the Bank's prior review and approval.
This is a lengthy exercise which required a lot of communications between the Bank and
PNOC EDC and as the Bank would say in its draft Implementation Completion Rcport,
resulted to time losses.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The project is expected to sustain the bcnefits which the Energy Sector study aimed for.
The commiissioning of 40 MW Bacman II project emerged as a significant outcome of
the project and is a valuable contribution to the Philippine energy sector. While the
other Luzon areas did not warrant further investments, Leyte A project proved to be
very encouraging and enticed further development. Thus, to further sustain the
contribution of PNOC EDC to the country's energy sector, exploration activities under
the project were extended to a more promising area, Leyte A. PNOC EDC, thus
prepared for the development of Leyte A in two phases, first, the 200 MW Leyte Cebu
Geothernal Project; and second, the 440 MW Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project. The
Bank has extended financing to PNOC EDC for the two projects.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
The Energy Sector Review carried out by the Bank in early 1988 has examined the
place of geothermal energy in the power development program. Through this and the
earlier projects (as previously mentioned), the vital importance of the geothermal resource in
the economy had been adequately established. The Bank's efforts to have the steam
pricing issue resolved resulted to the determination of a fair price for steam from the
Bacon-Manito.
The Bank had been suppordve throughout the implementation of the project. During its
supervision missions, the Bank rpresentatives played a key role in identifying and
resolving various problems and issues encountered by PNOC EDC in the course of its



48
procurement and disbursement from which key implementors of the Energy Sector
Project were amply benefited.
The Bank had been realistic and flexible enough in granting the request for reallocation
of the Loan among PNOC, PNOC EDC and Petron and the extension of the loan
closing date from December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1995.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Substantial preparation on the part of PNOC EDC had been made to undertake the
energy sector project. In Bacman, both exploration and development activities of
Bacman I and the drilling of exploratory and other production wells in Bacman II are
prelude to the development of the 40 MW Bacman II geothermal project under the
ESL. Likewise in other prospective areas geoscientific studies had been undertaken
prior to the execution of the energy sector project.
The project was undertaken by PNOC EDC for a period of 66 months under the Loan
starting from the effectivity of the Loan on June 12, 1990 until the closing date on
December 31, 1995. But prior to that groundwork had already been established by
PNOC EDC in preparation for the ESP.
Throughout the inplementation however, PNOC EDC was bound by the requirements,
covenants and procedures prescribed by the Bank. PNOC EDC substantially complied
with the Bank's proper monitoring requirement through submission of the quarterly
progress report and fumish the Bank required data as requested especially during the
supervision missions.
In compliance to the Bank's requirement of the Audit of the Statement of Expenditures
and the SDA, PNOC EDC comnuissioned the Philippine Conunission on Audit to
conduct such examination. Timely submission of audit reports was fulfilled.
PNOC EDC was able to comply with financial covenants imposed by the Bank which
include among others maintaining a debt to equity ratio of not more than 70:30 and
current ratio of at least 1.
As beneficiay of the loan through the subsidiary agreement, PNOC EDC carried out its
geothermal exploration, development and other related activities in accordance with the
terms and conditions set in the loan agreement. PNOC EDC was able to utilize fully its
USS118.0 million revised loan allocation.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
PNOC EDC has been successful in its exploration activities under the project, such that
it was able to develop geothermal resource in the case of Bacman II and identify
potential geothermal resource for future use in the case of Leyte A, Labo, and Northem
Negros. Development of the latter two areas are to be financed by the OECF of Japan.



49
potential geothermal resource for future use in the case of Leyte A, Labo, and Northern
Negros. Development of the latter two areas are to be financed by the OECF of Japan.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
The 20 MW Cawayan module of Bacman II has currently 3 production wells hooked-
up to the power plant . One more production well, CN 5D is currently being hooked-
up. Steam generation for 1994 reached 95,629 MWH and for 1995 it increased to
95,690 MWH. For the other 20 MW in Botong area, 6 production wells are expected
to be hooked-up to the power plant. Admission of steam by NPC power plant is
expected to start in April 1997. The steamfield is expected to provide steam to NPC
power plant for 25 years.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Several lessons can be drawn out of PNOC EDC'S implementation of the ESP.
Despite significant accomplishments of the project, PNOC EDC, however experienced
cost oven-uns and delays in the project's implementation. The Bank, in cooperation
with PNOC EDC took an active role in the reassessment of the physical and financial
targets of PNOC EDC. This provided both parties a rationale for modifying the targets
by which the project was implemented in terms of time frame and funding.
The bank's concem on the efficient administration of the project provided PNOC EDC
the opportunity to acquire useful knowledge in procurement and disbursement aspects.
Appropriate training program could actually be incorporated by the Bank in future
projects to enhance implemetation skills of project implementors and is most welcomed
by PNOC EDC.
Finally, harmonious working relationship between the Bank and the Borrower is a
significant factor for the successful adminstration of the project.
Note: 1. The Banlk as used here in this report means the World Bank.
2. The Loan means World Bank Loan 3164-0-PH (for the Energy Sector Proect-PNOC EDC portion).
3. The Borrower means PNOC EDC.



50
IBRD ENERGY SECTOR LOAN NO. 3164 PH
PART II - PETROLEUM REFINING (PETRON)
The funded projects of the Petroleum Refining portion of Petron Corp. consisted of a) an 18,000
BPSD Gas Oil Desulfurization Unit (GODU) for the purpose of providing sufficient diesel oil
desulfurizarion capacity to meet Petron's current LSD demand in the domestic market including
the postulated diesel supply shortfall in the oil industry, and b) an upgrade of the LPG Treating
Facilities covering the revamp of caustic facilities to increase production capacity from 3.1 MBSD
to 5.0 MBSD including the installation of a new Spent Caustic Treating Facility, the replacement
of a TCCU Wet Gas Compressor and revernp of TCCU Light-End Towers, all intended to meet
the increasing demands for LPG.
Petron Corp. engaged the services of Exxon Research & Engineering Co. for the preparation of
Schedule A package for the GODU and Merichern for the Spent Caustic Treater. Stanley
Associates Engineering Ltd. (Canada)/RTM Engineering was also commissioned for the
comprehensive review of the entire engineering package prior to the release to EPC contractors
for bidding. Most of the basic engineering portion of LPG Facilities Upgrade project were
undertaken by Petron's own technical personnel.
The Engineering Procurement & Construction (EPC) of the projects were awarded and
undertaken by the consortium of Daelinm-Mitsui Engineering Companies. Onshore construction
and fabrication works were subcontracted to EEI Corporation, a locally registered company.
The LPG Treating Facilities upgrade project was successfully commissioned last February 25,
1995 producing good results both in terms of increasing LPG production and treating capacity.
The GODU on the other hand, was put on-stream last April 23, 1995 and had produced products
more than the design quality specifications simce then.
Total project cost was USS37.73 million. Total amount drawn from the bank was only
USS19.968 million out of the allocated USS29.0 million. The remaining finding requirement to
complete the project was internally generated by Petron.
Petron Corporation is very positive that the benefits generated by the projects will be sustained. In
addition to meeting the oil industry's shortfall on both LPG and diesel products, the projects,
specifically GODU, enabled Petron to comply with the government's move to reduce air pollution
especially in the urban centers by way of lowering specification for sulfur content of diesel to 0.5
wt % effective this year. The government is planning to further lower the sulfur content limit in
diesel to 0.2 wt %  by the year 2000 and the GODU can very well this requirement. During its
performance test run, GODU attained 91% desulfurization efficiency (1% higher than its 90%
design efficiency) with a sulfur content of .12 wt %  on the product based on 1.33 wt % feed
sulfur content.



51
The installation of a spent caustic treating facility will also enable Petron to comply with the
stnngent pollution abatement requirements to be enforced by the Environmental Management
Bureau (EMB) in the near term. The 1.9 MBSD inrease in LPG production will be fully availed
of as LPG demand is projected to increase by an average 15% per year for the next five (5) year.
At present, the three (3) oil refineries in the country are importing LPG to satisfy consumer
demand.
The projects' benefits are expected to be fuUly utilized for the entire operating design life of the
units which is twenty (20) years and beyond under normal preventive maintenance and corrosion
control measures practiced in the refinery.
The completion of the above projects positions Petron as an industry pacesetter that can very wel
adjust to current and upcoming government statutes directly linked to pollution control and
economic interest of this country. The project was hailed by President Fidel V. Ramos as a big
boost to the attainment of Philippines 2000 status and cited for its significance in relation to
govrnment efforts towards a cleaner and greener environment.



52
IBRD ENERGY SECTOR LOAN NO. 3164 PH
PART III - INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
The institutional development component was aimed at strengthening and enhancing the technical
capabilities of the PNOC staff in systems planning project monitoring and management.
Employees who were deployed to attend various trainings and seminars in these fields from 1991
to 1995 were mainly from the Company's petroleum refinery and geothermal business units, i.e.,
now Petron and EDC, respectively. The component was orginally allocated USS3.0 Million in
1990 but has since been reduced to USS2.088 after requests for cancellation was forwarded to the
Bank in mid 1995.
As of December 31, 1995 total drawdowns on this component amounted to PHP1.337 Million or
64% of the revised loan amount. Of this total availment, Petron utilized USS.694 Million while
EDC's share was USS.643 Million. (Schedule A)
Petron's drawdowns consisted mainly of payments for professional services rendered by the
Arthur D. Little International Inc. (85%) for studies on petroleum demand and supply and for
trainings/seminars (15%) in refinery operations and management, financial and human resource
management. The Arthur D. Little studies served as basis for preparing the Corporation's
refimery expansion/upgrading plans.
EDC's drawdowns were mainly used to send its staff to various technical and management
competency trainings and seminars abroad and the conduct of in-house trainings. A Management
Development Program commissioned with the Asian Institute of Management acounted for over
34  of the availment. Other trainings attended were in the specialized fields of geochemistry,
environrnental economics, oil & gas accounting/management and water quality management.
In addition to meeting the objectives of the component, the Company was able to derive other
benefits such as the establishment of an information network with other agencies and counterparts
and raising the technical credibility of our staff to standards comparable with other ASEAN
countries.



53
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
World Bank - Energy Sector Loan 3165-PH (Second Draft)
On March 16, 1990, the Republic of the Philippines availed of a US $390 M loan from
the World Bank through Energy Sector Loan. Envisioned as a means of strengthening the role
of the then Office of Energy Affairs (OEA) as the coordinating agency for the sector's policy
planning, the loan provided for the upgrading of institutional capabilities as well as technical
assistance projects. Of the total loan amount, US$ 40 million or 10.7% was allocated to the
government comprising of the following energy agencies as beneficiaries: (a) Department of
Energy/Office of Energy Affairs (US$4.34 million); (b) National Electrification Administration
(US$ 22.24 million); (c) Environmental Management Bureau of the DENR (US$ 10.48 million);
and the (d) Energy Regulatory Board (US$ 3.00 million). The Philippine National Oil Company
(PNOC) was allocated US$ 150 million while the remaining portion amounting to US$ 200
million was appropriated to the National Power Corporation (NPC).
The government portion of the loan or WB-ESL No. 3165-PH was officially terminated
last 31 December 1995 after having been extended for one year. This was in view of the delayed
implementation of some project components caused primarily by the late releases of funds as well
as periodic manpower and technical problems. As Administrator of the government portion of
the loan, the Department prepared in consultation with the beneficiary agencies, a consolidated
contribution/inputs to the Implementation Completion Report which is part of the loan
requirements. Prior to the termination of the loan, government loan utilization amounted to US$
31.46 Million or 78.47% of the total allocation.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
The DOE portion of the WB-ESL has three (3) major components, namely: Technical
Studies (US$ 0.74 M), Institutional Capability Building (US$ 0.91 M), and Building Expansion
(US$ 1.06 M).
Under the Technical Studies component, three projects were completed, namely: a) the
Environmental Impacts of Accelerated Geothermal Energy Development which aimed to identify
the impacts of accelerated geothermal energy development and institute measures to mitigate the
same, b) Institutionalization of Methods and Procedures for Local Non-conventional Energy
Planning at the Regional and Sub-regional Levels Study with significant outputs to wit:
"Framework for Integrated Energy Planning of Sustainable Development which prescribes the
integration of energy planning mechanisms into the national development planning process, the
Census of New and Renewable Energy Sources Systems Installations at the National Capital
Region, and the conduct of series of seminar on Long-iange Energy Alternatives Program
(LEAP) Software. However, three of the technical projects were not implemented per the loan
agreement because of the following reasons: (a) The Non-Power in Geothermal Study was
replaced by the establishment of coal testing facility due to existence of similar study undertaken
by the PNOC; (b) The project " Cost Structure and Transfer Pricing Study" was financed by the
USAID through its Technical Resource Project and was completed in 1993; (c) only the capital
outlay of the project "Fuel Contingency Plan" was drawn as it was pre-empted by the 1991 Gulf
crisis.



54
The Institutional Strengthening component of the loan provided technical assistance,
training, supplies and equipment for two completed projects, namely : Establishment of the
Energy Database and Power Systems Planning.  The Regional Energy Demand Forecasting
which is part of this component was pursued under a USAID grant. On the other hand, 50
percent of its total allocation was utilized from the Manpower Training component. The
completion of the DOE Annex Building which was inaugurated on September 28, 1995 by
President Fidel V. Ramos is a fitting landmark of the BankL's support to the country's energy
sector.
The following are the plans of DOE after the completion of various components of the
WB-ESL projects:
A.   Environmental Impacts of Accelerated Geothermal Energy Development
Republic Act 7638 vests upon the DOE the authority over energy projects. This
will ease the way for DOE to institute measures to safeguard the environment while
pursuing its mandate to ensure adequate supply of energy for the country. This authority,
in joint coordination with the EMB-DENR mandates the DOE to be the central
coordinator of all agencies involved in geothermal regulatory proceedings in consonance
with the one-stop-shop concept. DOE shall facilitate timely actions on environmental
applications/requests by investors related to geothermal development.  In order to
efficiently carry this out, it was recommnended that a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) be drawn to define the role and responsibility of each agency involved in
geothermal permitting.
B.   Nonconventional Energy
The DOE will pilot test the "Framework for Integrated Energy Planning of
Sustainable Development" in one province. There will be two-tiered consultation meetings
at provincial and regional levels to validate the drafted framework.
Locally-funded projects will be conducted to develop mechanisms for monitoring
NRES and to assess their contributions to the national energy mix. Strategies developed
by DOE-ANECs and the NCR Census will be integrated into a single methodology
capable of both monitoring the status of NRES installations and their contributions to the
energy mix.
C.    Coal Testing Facility
The plant will be made available to researchers from the academe, the coal
industry and students on coal beneficiation processes to demonstrate the technology for
a broader understanding and appreciation of its environmnental merits.



55
D.    Power Systems Planning
Transfer of technology plan will be strategized by the proponent division of DOE
at the regional level possibly under a different funding source.
Bank Performance
Records showed that the Bank's performance was satisfactory in terms of lending
assistance during project preparation and implementation.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEM[ENT BUREAU
Department of Environment and Natural Resources
The DENR-EMB component of the Energy Sector Project is entitled "Modernization of
Environmental Monitoring Facilities and Capabilities in Response to Energy Developments". It
was included in the Philippine Energy Sector Project in view of the expected environmental
impact of the rapid energy sector expansion. Corollary to this, there is a need to properly equip
the agency in terms of facilities and institutional capacities.
The general objective of the project is to assess the impact of energy projects on air and
water quality and specifically to intensify air and water quality monitoring and surveillance
activities, control and prevent pollution from stationary sources, enhance environmental impact
assessments, modernize laboratory and monitoring facilities.
The components of the EM Energy Sector Project consisted of the following:
1. Air and Water Quality Monitoring
2. Pollution Prevention and Control
3. Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs)
4. Modernization of laboratory and monitoring facilities
5. Manpower training and development
The project has successfully met its objectives with the purchase and installation of the
following equipment: (a) portable monitoring facility for the use of EMB and the regional offices
of DENR (b) establishment of nine (9) air quality monitoring stations and acquisition of three (3)
module air quality monitoring van. Consultants were commissioned to advise EMB on the
purchase of these equipment and accessories as well as to set up programs for data collection,
analysis, quality assurance and staff training.



56
Implementation Experience and Results
The EMB with a total allocation of Ten Million Four Hundred Thousand US Dollar
(US$10.4 M) has satisfactorily implemented the project in its entire duration. From the year
1992, the project has achieved its annual disbursement target.
Since the physical and price contingencies were deducted from the total loan amount of
US$ 10.4 M by the DBM, accordingly, US$ 8.56 M became the total based cost of the project
funds. Of this, only US$ 7.797 M was disbursed by the EMB Energy Sector Project indicating
an 84.26 percent utilization rate.
The project on "Modemization of Environmental Monitoring Facilities and Capabilities
in Response to Energy Developments" which was given a one-year extension was completed in
1995. The loan disbursements were slow during the first year of implementation due to the
delays in the bidding and procurement processes as well as the untimely release of funds from
the Department of Budget and Management (DBM). These problems consistently surfaced until
the last year of implementation.
Key Lessons Learned, Future Operation and Sustainability
With an expanded database and knowledge acquired from the project implementation, the
DENR will have a sound and sufficiently drawn basis to formnulate appropriate policies regarding
air and water pollution from power plants, rules and regulations for stationary sources and
enhance criteria for the environmental impact assessments of energy projects.
While substantial gains have been made from the WB-ESL assisted project, it would be
significant to the EMB to acquire further external funding and support for the installation of more
air quality monitoring stations in other parts of the country where power projects/stations are in
operation. This will ensure the development of a countrywide database profile to expand
DENR's framework for its policy and program planning and implementation.
The sustainability of the project is guaranteed in view of the following: (1) the acquired
equipment are accuracy and durability proof considering the reputable standing of its
manufacturers in the field of environment, (2) equipment are provided with a five-year supply
of accessories and spare parts, (3) training of technical personnel in the operation and
maintenance of equipment; and "after sales service" of the suppliers are satisfactory.
Performance of the Bank
The bank facilitated the equipment procurement processes through its immediate response
to EMB queries, fast-tracked evaluation and approval of the required documents.



57
ENERGY REGULATORY BOARD
A portion of the government loan for ERB was basically envisioned as a means of
strengthening the agency by way of upgrading its institutional capability as well as provision for
technical assistance projects. Of the total loan amount, the ERB got a slice amnounting to US$
3.0 M. In 1995, the Board got an additional loan amounting to US$ 0.38 M which was
withdrawn form EMB's surplus. The ERB spent a total US$ 3.45 M.
The ERB's portion of the WB-ESL has four (4) major components, narnely:
1.    Human Resource Training and Development.
2.    Technical Assistance on:
a.    Power Tariff Consultancy
b.    Petroleum Product Pricing
c.    Coal Pricing
d.    Management Information System
e.    Purchase Power Study
f.    Technical Assistance on the Institutional Dev't. Project
g.    ERB's Physical Resource Development
h.    Legal Aspects of the Study on the Regulation of Transmission and Sub-
transmission charges
i.    Regulatory Cost and Finance Analysis and Training
j.    Electric Utility Rates Analysis
k.    An Analysis of the Philippine Antitrust Laws
3.    Physical Resource Development.
4.    Strengthening of ERB's Infornation and Production unit.
Implementation Experience and Results
Under the Human Resource Training and Development, the ERB personnel have
participated in various local and foreign training/conferences Nvhich broadened their perspective
in terms of appreciating the implications of regulatory policies and decisions.
Under the Technical and Management Assistance component, joint undertakings of the
hired consultants with the ERB counterpart ensured transfer of technology such as in the use of
software or on the adoption of the applicable rate setting methodology in the Philippines, and the
like.
To compliment its growing tasks and responsibilities and to ensure its mobility and
accessibility, the physical resources of ERB were upgraded with the acquisition of vehicles,



58
communications and information equipment such as fax machines, two-way radio system and cell
phone. The ERB likewise acquired testing facilities , procured books and subscribed to energy
periodicals.
With regard to the strengthening of its information and production units, the ERB acquired
necessary equipment, computer hardware, software and other accessories. Networking and
document imaging were also put in place. These were also transfers of technologies in practically
all the applicable tasks of the projects.
Problems and Maior Factors Affecting the Project
There were some administrative problems that affected the project implementation, like
the delay in the 1991 budget allotment, late approval of the General Appropriation Act, lack of
government counterpart for the 70%-30% loan utilization, no budgetary allocations approved for
ERB in 1994 and technical issues with DBM in the disbursement of funds allotted for consultancy
services in view of E. 0. 205 dated January 3, 1991.
Bank Performance
The Bank's performance was satisfactory in terms of its extending the necessary lending
assistance from the preparatory stage up to the project implementation.
Borrower's Performance
To ensure that the project objectives are complied, the ERB assigned a Project Director
and an Alternate to oversee the implementation. A Technical Committee was also created whose
members came from the different units of the agency. It was tasked to screen prospective
consultants for the Technical Assistance component. Correspondingly, a secretariat arm was
designated to coordinate with the project consultants.
Overall Outcome
The objectives were satisfactorily met within the five-year (1991-1995) period of project
implementation.



59
Kev Lessons Learned
Several lessons were learned in the course of project implementation. First, there should
be closer coordination between the agency's technical and financial groups. Second, the Board
should create a Project Review Committee to assess the status of the projects and how they
contribute in meeting the objectives. Third, is the regular and constant communication with
DBM, Bureau of Treasury, BSP and the administrative agency (like DOE). Lastly, the Board
suggests that a more systematic administration of the financial aspect of the loan be ensured by
the concerned agency or better yet a loan/grant should be given directly to ERB.
Plans for the Future
ERB faces an even greater challenge with the passage of several bills such as the RA.
7832, the Omnibus Bill (An act to ordain reform on the power sector to ensure the optimal
electrification of the Philippines), the Energy Competition Bill (An anti-monopoly bill), Senate
Bill No. 886, to narne some adding powers and functions to the Board. This scenario call for
more technical assistance, e. g., appraisal of assets, impact of DSM to rates, consolidation and
merger, load forecasting, and other reforms in the distribution sector particularly the 120 electric
cooperatives nationwide. If the ERB has to meet these critical tasks, it needs to house a great
number of employees, hence it is more beneficial if it can build its own office than renting a
roughly 2,460 square meters at its present address.  It is hoped that the Bank can extend
assistance in this regard.
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
I.    Improving NEA's Institutional Capabilities
This component of the loan, includes the provision of computers, professional and office
equipment, communication equipment, vehicles and warehouse equipment for NEA. All of these
items were purchased except for the proposed procurement of two (2) shuttle busses for NEA
employees which was not pushed through as the requested approval from the Office of the
President was turned down. Delivery of computers ana. engineering software and other testing
equipment under IFB 62 was not completed before the loan closing date. However, the Bank
agreed to finance this procurement under the Rural Electrification Revitalization Project (Loan
3449-Ph). The acquisition of these items, increased NEA's mobility in project implementation
and make effective communication link between NEA and the Electric Cooperatives (ECs). It
enhanced NEA's capabilities to handle and deliver materials to the ECs.
2.    Improving NEA's Functional Capacity
This component of the loan aims to establish and provide operational and maintenance
equipment for its regional operation offices and zonal repair and maintenance facilities. A total
of seven (7) units of Test Vans including laboratory equipment were procured for this purpose,
six (6) were allocated for use in the regional offices who operate and maintain these equipment



60
while one (1) unit is being used at the ceni.ral office in Manila.
3.    Upgrading and Repair of Distribution System
This component of the loan provides for the rehabilitation of the distribution system of
twelve (12) ECs. Electrical materials and equipment including maintenance trucks to support the
rehabilitation and upgrading project were procured and issued to eighteen (18) beneficiary ECs.
These rehabilitation and upgrading projects eventually contributed in the improvement of the
quality of electric service being provided by the recipient ECs.
4.    Installation of Additional Substation
Aside from financing the necessary rehabilitation equipment and materials requirement of
ECs under the No. 4 component, the loan also finances the procurement of additional eight (8)
substations intended to be installed in eight (8) ECs. A total of twenty one (21) Power
Transformer and Substation Packages were procured to sustain the availability of power supply
in recipient ECs.  Installation of these equipment were already completed except for the
remaining five units expected to be installed in 1996.
5.    Training and Technical Assistance
There were two major consultancy projects for this component: one is the Banking
Consultancy Contract with the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP); and
the Technical Assistance on Materials and Handling conducted by the National Rural Electric
Cooperatives Association (NRECA).
The Banking Consultancy Contract with PDCP was intended to assist NEA; (i) to
implement its revised lending program, together with the rescheduling of existing debt obligations
of the ECs and for the appraisal and origination of new investment loans; and (ii) to develop and
institutionalize a loan appraisal and administration function within NEA by organizing a core
lending group which shall undergo on-the-job training.  The training component of the
consultancy contract was accomplished. However, the overall performance of the contractor was
not satisfactory as it failed to complete the reconciliation of loan accounts and the restructuring
of accounts.
NEA is receiving significant donor support for the funding of specific rehabilitation and
expansion projects of the ECs and as the central procurement agency for the ECs, NEA is
procuring significant amount of distribution material and equipment in support of the construction
of the identified projects. Because of these services of the NRECA was engaged for the
following: (i) development of a strategy for the efficient procurement, staging and delivery of
materials and equipment to recipient ECs; (ii) development of a detailed workplan for the
implementation of the strategy that is developed; and assessment of the ECs capability to timely
construct the identified projects. This technical assistance on materials handling consists of two
parts, the Phase-I which is the study phase, was completed 1993 and the Phase-ll, which is the
implementation phase is on-going and is being financed under the existing Rural Electrification
Revitalization Project. The study phase was able to identify likely bottlenecks to the smooth



116'                                                 120                                                  124                                                 128'
P H  I L I P P I N  E S
220                             ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
ENERGY RESOURCES
CUj                                      A      Geotermal appraisal / delineation l6cotions
( 9                               S ?  *  Geothermal sites under exploration
^ - - .*                                        Existing geothermal power projects in operation
I -  y   )                            ?      Coal development and production
Cogua                              ?'    Coal explorotion
:      I                                               I) :1  Hydra-electric plonts
      Future hydro-electric plant
j    I LUZON                                   --Faults
AmukloMg                         /                       - - N  -    International boundaries
16'                                                       i 1          |     )Pantu,4'an                           KiI ,ts              I T0        200         300        16
&-qMpCswoy                               MAibs         ~02
Balungo t-                                                     0 %2                                  200
Mt. Pinohbox                     t                     Mobile Zone
(3   Angat ,
Morlvele         tbYa oyaan
;         \   iOl \Doi>iC ?eaari'
MonEelogo   >                                           tpovMnito Geothermal Power Project
1\ ~~~~~~~~~~lBcn- Monlto 1I
M?NDOI4O   ~s/8bx, 'AA 74               \< 
>Zr                        \               (H1ttllusan    r -               PHILIPPINF       SEfl
12-                                                                                                      / y               SAMAR7                                           12-
,,7  1                         K                           -\-
.(!1 1    { /..s, .  ,f o   4 0                   )t        %PANA Y                 ,               *onnn
(A   ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       -,      5?'u -16  NI
i-S                f     ouo.                       'V
!AtAWAIV                                                t        ~    >>  PoNlnpinon I-I
f/;                                 j7               {       \   \    V            ~~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Agusan X
-8e                       (3f -r 2_.-')\   nr\.   \-
CHINA                                                                                                                   Pula L  ul n i             l.
s.~~~~ -                                       .           .           .           .          ," /  -.!\ 1   -'
\ VIET NAM        I utolv                                                                      IiN'i4t\l                         I
'Va 'SArAS.
PAiAWAN                                                                                  A  Its,n.,rvel
A                                                                                                                       Si
BRUNEI      'ANAO                                                         K f Z f /1; S    .  i  .
MALAYS1A                                                                                                              -           Agusa
a'                                                  ,i-- C)                                                      - Th. d~k- - A NA = 11 N' D W VO
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n - ft er '.                                                      Th. r `bir~ 8MI *0-~~  .
CHNA IN  D                                                                                                              F Na t I A  I,...o............  -n.I .- o
o   .-H   \n7Xz   S   .................... 120-   . 120 
A~~~~T






'120                                  I2?                                   14                                     i2
PHILIPPINES
* Cl> u                                                  ENERGY SECTOR PROJECT
GRID MAP OF NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
18E                                                                                                           CCONO     I          O
POWER PLANTS.
*~~  ElITI           U~~~~~    Hydso
HC                   * \   DGI  *IGI     OUrONGI,_
S S ~ T~O                                mid                             mcIAC I  CooI Thm-.I
J ll   0   7    oi                                      Oil TIl*l
D.5..
S o ut1 h                         4  2            [H~ - I 5z               /                *(DI                                      TAR;NSMISSION LINES.
IRAINi                                                                                    500 kV
CH   | BS B04-?|H}    /   '                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~230 &I
China                                                       i    .                                  -  -3069
.  \Sznl )           0230 kV
Sea                    '       t   U    :; | .,IH)S                                        @          *          *         0         115-138kV
(    DI o                I IOIOCotoototisooI                                                Fo-slitin to bt Upgrodd
b _ hond.  I             EtingiS kydo po.w - IM.O
Ewhitng 230 kV  t.o6t-U
I         ERiting 1151 3B kV .otioh
A{H ) D  /  D  Ei.ling 69 kV .b f.o. (oLy
pNpd sokolot..S or.  ,)
Philippine
Sea,
MINDORO
MA"SBTE
-12                                                                                                                                 5AMAR                                  2
. ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    il -c -     '     "\; 1,  ' '*.
PANAY              l           j-( (ToC-
u        5,ut  v x           -.  I       o      IA0ilo N
PALA WAN                                              :.   5'0   '          ;EE L
k ~ ~ ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~ '','M 48RE IU
'r E..T-Ei-,o                                                                             ; ,              '; 'I   ,              KR                                |
IGF
'O..    tPb-4\F 0bd.'o..IOI
- ...d~ io                                                                4.                             .    .
-- a ,                                                                   '. '                                            'w, '8-!  
I ~ ~   ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        4 UP  M-0  Gm0dI
.,.,PHILIPPEINE)S                                                    .      LH)WD
-   It.                                                                                                                   _
0~~~~
W-        -                                                                           '-
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                        S   ,     'n)       \
r      2 -r   t~  tO__ S..O                                                                            UH     s    k         I Nl.lA  N  A  O                 8
,   ,,1   ,,   , i                       .,     Wrl~~-  IttHk2
o,                                                                          NUT G,o    IpIttarelUsE'lMl  ''                -          ol
(OMiOO   P0H0iLIP00INES                                         I                                                                  IMyN-s    H)  go  c 
lar.                                            , I             Mor     iuf                                          "'lE      '
-<.u*A9,YSI*i''i'_.(^   
8~~~~~ ' H ''z-N - .._
jO . b ,, , 4,l Cs , ~~~~~~~~I J/'-C
_  Indon oceon  sDoNTSIA  <  lrr                                   wvr                                       It4                  _ M~~~~~~~~~~









IMAGING
Report No:      15657
Type: ICR



