Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13282
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
A"GHANISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 927-AF)
JUNE 30, 1994
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Note on Afghanistan
Third Highway Project (Credit 927-AF)
Attached is the Project Completion Note (PCN) on "Afghanistan - Third
Highway Project (Credit 927-AF)" prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure
Operations Division, Country Department 3, of the South Asia Regional Office.
The Credit was approved by the Board on June 7, 1979.  It never became
effective. The reason for the Bank's decision not to make the Credit effective
was the prevailing situation in Afghanistan at the time, which made effective
Association supervision impossible.   The project was finally canceled as of
January 1, 1982 in the expectation that conditions for effectiveness could not
be fulfilled in the foreseeable future. As the project was not implemented under
the circumstances, its outcome and impact are not rated.
A Project Completion Report was not prepared as operations under the
project never commenced.
The PCN is satisfactory.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onty in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
AFGHANISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAYS PROJECT
(CREDIT 927-AF)
Project Identitv
Project Name:       Third Highways Project
Credit No.:         927-AF
RVP Unit:           South Asia Region
Country:            Afghanistan
Sector:             Transport
HI.    Backeround
1.    This is a Project Completion Note for the Third Highways Project for which a Credit of
$17.6 million equivalent was approved by the Board on June 7, 1979. The Credit never became
effective and it was terminated in its entirety by the Association as of January 1, 1982. No
disbursements were made against this Credit. A Project Completion Report (PCR) is not being
prepared because operations under this Project never commenced, and because this Project was
identified by OEDDR as requiring only a Project Completion Note.' This Project Completion note
was prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Departrnent III, South
Asia Region and was based on a review of the SAR, Development Credit Agreement, and
correspondence and memorandums contained in the Association's correspondence files.
III.   Proiect Descrivtion
2.    The objective the Third Highways Project was to strengthen the capacity of the Road
Construction and Maintenance Department (RCMD) of the Ministry of Public Works to execute its
responsibilities for maintaining and upgrading the highway network in Afghanistan, including
primary, secondary and tertiary roads. The principal components of the project were to be: (i) a
three-year time slice of a pavement strengthening program for about 450 kIms and surface dressing for
about 160 kms; (ii) a three-year slice of a road maintenance (4,000 kms) and improvement (300 kms)
program; and (iii) technical assistance for RCMD. RCMD was to be responsible for implementing
the entire project.
3.     The principal direct beneficiaries were to be road users but, due to the keen competition in
the road transport industry, the savings in transport costs were expected to be quickly passed on to
producers and consumers. The overall economic rate of return for the pavement strengthening and
preservation component was estimated at 42 percent, and the benefit/cost ratio for the maintenance
and improvement component was calculated to be 2.3.
1/ See Memorandum dated December 4, 1992 to Mr. Paul Isenman from H. Eberhard K6pp.



2
4.     The total Project cost wu astimated at $33.2 million of which the Government of
Afghanistan, IDA and the EEC Special Action Fund were to provide $11.2 million, $17.6 million,
and S4.4 million, respectively.
5.    The reason for the Bank's decision not to make the Credit effective was the prevailing
situation in Afghanistan at the time, which made effective Association supervision impossible. All
IDA disbursements to Afghanistan were suspended in April 1980, and have not resumed since this
date. Credit 927-AF effectiveness was postponed twice from the original planned date of December
27, 1979 to December 31, 1981, and the Project was finally cancelled as of January 1, 1982 in the
expectation that conditions for effectiveness could not be fulfilled in the foreseeable future.
M:\AM\AFGHANIS\CR9Z7.PCI



