Document of              FL             COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 5X64-AF
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND
EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAYS PROJECT
MAY 22, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Afghani (Af.)
Calendar 1978                        February 22, 1979
US$1.00  =  Afs 40.24                US$1.00   -  Afs 0.025
Afs 1   =  US$0.02485                Afs 40    =  US$1.00
Note: An exchange rate of Afs 40.00 = US$1.00 has been
used to calculate project costs.
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 to March 20
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT        -      Average Daily Traffic
EEC        -      European Economic Community
ICB        -      International Competitive Bidding
IDBA       -      Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan
MPW        -      Ministry of Public Works
PDPA       -      People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan
RCMD       -      Road Construction and Maintenance Department
RDD        -      Rural Development Department
USSR       -      Union of Soviet Socialist Republics



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
THIRD HIGHWAYS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Democratic Republic of Afghanistan.
Beneficiaries:  Road Construction and Maintenance Department,
Ministry of Public Works.
Amount:          US$17.6 million equivalent.
Terms:           Standard.
Project
Description:  A principal objective of the project is to strengthen the
capacity of the Road Construction and Maintenance Department
(RCMD) of the Ministry of Public Works to execute its respon-
sibilities for maintaining and upgrading the highway network
in Afghanistan, including primary. secondary and tertiary
roads. The principal components of the project would be:
(i) a three-year time slice of a pavement strengthening
program; (ii) a three-year time slice of a road maintenance
and improvement program; and (iii) technical assistance for
RCMD. The recurrent costs of the maintenance and improvement
program, amounting to $17.3 million, would be met in full by
the Government. The project works would be carried out by
RCMD, which needs an expanding capacity for executing work of
the type envisaged. There are no domestic highway contractors,
and, given the history of International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) for road contracts in Afghanistan, prospects for effec-
tive ICB for the proposed work are considered poor. The
principal direct beneficiaries would be road users, but due
to the keen competition in the road transport industry, the
savings in transport costs are expected to be soon passed on
to producers and consumers. The principal risks relate to
RCMD's capacity to execute the project on schedule . Some
technical assistance to RCMD is therefore considered necessary
and is provided.
Estimated Cost:                              Local         Foreign         Total
--------- (US$ Million) ---------
Highway Maintenance and Improvement         -             4.8            4.8
Pavement Strengthening Program             3.5           18.1           21.6
Technical Assistance                       0.1            0.6            0.7
Total Base Cost                        3.6           23.5           27.1
Price Contingencies                        1.1            5.0            6.1
Grand Total                            4.7           28.5           33.2
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11l 
Financing Plan:                                 Local   Foreign   Total       _
-----(US$ Million)-----
Government                                    4.7       6.5     11.2    34
IDA                                            -       17.6     17.6    53
EEC Special Action Fund                        -        4.4      4.4    13
Total                                  4.7      28.5      33.2   100
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:                            FY     1981      1982      1983    1984
--------(US$ Million)---------
IDA
Annual                    1.5      5.5       6.7     3.9
Cumulative               1.5       7.0      13.7    17.6
EEC Special Action Fund
Annual                   2.0       2.4
Cumulative               2.0       4.4
Economic Indicators:      Pavement Strengthening and Preservation - Economic
Rate of Return 42 percent - Maintenance and
Improvement - Benefit/Cost Ratio of 2.3.
Estimated Completion
Date:                     December 31, 1983
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 2360-AF dated May 1979
Regional Projects Department, EMENA



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT TO THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAYS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan for the equiv-
alent of US$17.6 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third
Highways Project. The EEC Special Action Fund would help to finance the
project with a credit of $4.4 million equivalent expressed in the currencies
of the EEC member countries on standard terms for the Fund.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
General
2.        The Basic Economic Report distributed to the Executive Directors
in April 1978 (Report No. 1777a-AF) - The Journey to Economic Development -
provides an assessment of the economic situation, development achievements
and prospects, and constraints for future economic and social development in
Afghanistan. The findings of that report were summarized in my report to the
Executive Directors, dated June 20, 1978 (Report No. P-2357-AF) in which I
recommended a credit for a Kabul Water Supply and Sewerage Project. The
broad issues discussed in these reports give perspective to a summary of the
recent developments in the economy.
Current Situation
3.        The performance of the Afghan economy rests heavily on the agricul-
tural sector. Yearly changes in agricultural production reflect primarily
weather conditions. In the four years from 1972/73 - 1976/77 agricultural
production grew steadily at an annual average rate of 2.6 percent peaking at
a level of food self-sufficiency in 1976/77. In 1977/78 insufficient rainfall
during the winter and spring followed by hot weather during the growing season
resulted in a drop in crops of 10 percent and in heavy animal losses. The
decline in food-grain production led to an important price increase during the
second part of the year, partly because the Government wheat imports were
ordered too late. A substantial recovery of agriculture production occurred
in 1978/79. Food grain production rose by 6 percent. It is possible that the
level of output in 1979/80 will fall because of insufficient rain and snowfall
during the winter. In addition, the land reform will, for reasons discussed
below, certainly disrupt production temporarily to some degree. Accordingly -
and given the large share of agriculture in GNP - economic growth is likely to
be small in the next 18-24 months.
1/   Part 1 of this report is essentially unchanged from that contained in
the President's Report dated March 19, 1979 (P-2491-AF) for the Third
Education Project.



-2-
4.        The overall budget deficit expanded sharply in 1976/77 to a level
equal to one-third of total expenditure. Foreign aid fell short of expecta-
tion, and the Government relied heavily on the banking system to finance
the deficit. In 1977-1978 the budget deficit declined by 10 percent while
revenue rose by only 6 percent after a period of continued growth. After a
dramatic increase in 1976/77, development expenditures levelled off in
1977/78 partly as a result of delays in project preparation and implementa-
tion. Due to abandonment of the Seven-Year Plan by the new Government (see
para 14 below), some slackening of major new investment decisions before the
new Plan targets are formulated in the fall of 1979 can be expected; only
then will the domestic resource position come clearly into focus.
5.        Although the trade deficit was large from 1974/75 to 1977/78, net
receipts from services and capital flows exceeded the deficit. As a result,
the surplus on the balance of payments doubled in 1975/76 and tripled in
1977/78 compared with the 1974/75 level. Cumulative balance of payment
surpluses are reflected in the accumulation of official foreign exchange
holdings, in the accumulation of reserves up to a level of almost 12 months
of import requirements in 1978, and in the substantial appreciation of the
Afghani. The Afghani has appreciated more or less continuously in the bazaar
market since 1971, but since 1976, policy measures were introduced to restrain
this appreciation. During 1978/79, the central bank successfully intervened
in the market so that the exchange rate which for a period reached Afs. 32 to
the dollar, fell to Afs. 40 to the dollar by the end of 1978. A large part
of the recorded surplus originates in remittances of Afghan workers living in
Iran. The official figures, however, do not fully reflect the actual flows,
due to the importance of the informal financial sector. The level of these
remittances, and hence the current payments surplus, must be considered
uncertain as a consequence of events in Iran.
Economic and Social Priorities of the New Government
6.        On April 27, 1978 the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan
(PDPA) overthrew the regime of the former President Daoud; the new Government
is headed by Noor Mohammad Taraki, President of the Revolutionary Council and
Secretary General of the Central Committee of the PDPA. The Prime Minister is
Hafizullah Amin. The PDPA has committed itself to an ambitious program of
action, and particularly to the following goals: land reform, adult literacy,
expansion of primary education, increased access to secondary and to higher
education, provision of basic health services, equal rights for women, reduc-
tion of unemployment, revision of the tax system, and strengthening of the
public sector. In addition - and in fact as a pre-condition for significant
progress on any of these issues - the new Government is in the process of
instituting a major overhaul of the administrative system to make it more                        a
action-oriented and more effective in responding to economic, political and
social conditions.
7.        These goals and the initiatives taken to accomplish them correspond
to a large degree with the recommendations contained in the Bank's recent
basic economic report. The "basic needs" program recommended in the basic
report as an integral part of the development strategy is also a key element



- 3 -
of the program of the PDPA and the Government, under the corresponding label
of "food, health and shelter" for all citizens. The basic report was dis-
cussed with the new Government in February 1979. The mission found itself
in broad agreement with the Government with respect to the diagnosis of the
economic, social and institutional constraints to development.
8.        With the new Government only one year in office, and in view of
massive personnel changes in the upper and middle echelons in the adminis-
tration, the Bank's assessment of the progress made so far is necessarily
derived less from the analysis of firm economic data than from the accumula-
tion of subjective impressions brought back by a large number of Bank missions
which have been in Afghanistan during the past year and from the effective-
ness of various Government agencies in regard to requests for information or
decisions made by these missions. All these missions have noted a new commit-
ment to development, combined with an impressive seriousness of purpose. A
very open and rewarding dialogue has been possible on effective approaches
to achieve the various goals. However, the Government recognizes the far-
reaching nature of the changes it seeks to bring about and the potential this
offers for difficulties of a political, economic or social nature. Given
reasonable stability, however, there is a confidence that considerable headway
in tackling Afghanistan's formidable development problems is now within reach.
Development Issues
9.        Land reform and reform of the social structure of the rural sector
are the Government's first priorities. Three recent decrees address themselves
to these problems. Decree No. 6 cancels all debts owed by sharecroppers and
agricultural laborers. Debts owed by farmers owning less than 2 hectares and
secured by land or crops are written down, and their terms are reduced;
Government has indicated that institutional credits will not be affected. The
Decree may however, have a serious impact on the supply of private credit and
place a heavy burden on institutional credit. Decree No. 7 promulgated for
'"ensuring of equal rights of women" raises the legal age of marriage and
places a limit on financial transfers at marriage, hitherto a major cause of
indebtedness. Decree No. 8 deals with land reform (the previous land reform
law of 1973 had not been enforced and led to insignificant transfer of owner-
ship). The land reform decree limits the size of land holding to 6 hectares
of Class I land (irrigated and suitable for double cropping) or its equivalent
in lower grade land, and it provides for the distribution of expropriated land
primarily to landless labor and sharecroppers, up to a limit of 1 hectare of
Class I land or its equivalent per family. The decree also limits future
fragmentation of redistributed land and requires equitable distribution of
water on irrigated land. To implement the land reform, the Government has set
up 100 expert teams which are carrying out the complex task associated with
the redistribution, initially in 10 of the 26 provinces of the country, on a
village-by-village basis. Land distribution began in early December 1978 and
by the end of March, about 250,000 hectares were officially reported to have
been distributed among over 100,000 families. The Government has announced
that the land reform will be completed in all provinces within about a year
and that about 675,000 families will benefit ultimately, probably more than
one-third of all families in rural areas.



- 4 -
10.       One severe transitional problem to be faced in connection with the
land reform is the provision of implements and inputs for the new farmers,
who as tenant farmers relied on credit from money lenders and landowners.
For obvious reasons - because of the sheer size of numbers and the absence of
any bankable collateral of the great majority of farmers - an extension of
conventional institutional lending cannot completely resolve the problem.
The Government, therefore, is pinning its hopes on a rapid expansion of the
cooperative movement. The number of cooperatives has already increased from
150 one year ago to 250, and is expected to reach several thousand upon
conclusion of the land reform. Although Government spokesmen assert that
membership would be voluntary, the cooperative movement is expected to ulti-
mately comprise almost all farmers. Although a revised cooperative law has
been issued and encouragement given to the creation of farmer's credit unions,
it is recognized that the rapid expansion of cooperatives does not by itself
resolve the credit supply problems, and that during the difficult transitional
phase ahead severe shortages of qualified staff in the cooperatives, the
lending agencies (essentially the Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan)
and in the Government extension service will most likely impede agricultural
production temporarily.
11.       Another high priority program of the new Government is the rapid
expansion of elementary education. Primary schools are being set up with
voluntary labor and teacher training is being stepped up as a part of the
expansion of secondary and higher education. In addition, the PDPA has
launched an ambitious adult literacy program, using volunteer teaching staff
and make-shift facilities. One of the most severe tests ahead - stimulated
by Decree No. 7 mentioned above - is the extension of both primary education
and the adult literacy program to women, who in the rural areas were all but
completely left out in the past.
12.       For industrial development, following the nationalization measures
of 1973, large-scale industry has been almost entirely in the public sector,
where the record has been poor. The new Government is making efforts to
correct some of the most severe deficiencies, such as virtual absence of
enterprise accounting, and bureaucratic management practices with a minimum
of independence and accountability. While the future industrialization policy
will, for a number of reasons, continue to emphasize the expansion and pro-
motion of large-scale public enterprises, the Government exhibits awareness
that for purposes of employment generation, as well as for processing agri-
cultural products, procurement of basic consumer goods and production inputs,
the promotion of small- and medium-sized industry - by necessity largely in
the private sector - cannot be disregarded. While the Government has not
expressed a strong formal commitment to that end, there are indications
that it is in the process of gearing up institutional arrangements for the
promotion of small and medium-sized industries.
13.       In the past, domestic resource availability was not a major con-
straint for development since resources (both domestic and foreign) tended
to exceed absorptive and implementation capacity. In the coming years,
however, domestic resources are likely to emerge as a major new bottleneck of
development. The programs of social and economic transformation are likely to
be accompanied or followed by a rapid rise of development and current expendi-
tures in these areas, even under the most generous assumptions about the



-5-
impact of self-help and voluntary services. In addition, sizeable debt service
payments for public external debt will put additional new burdens on the budget.
In fact, the new Government is facing an almost insoluble dilemma, because of
its commitment to social progress and the identification of these subsidized
services with that goal. On the revenue side, the major traditional sources
of revenue - like import duties, income from public enterprises, export sales
of natural gas, and corporate and individual income taxes - are unlikely to
grow fast, and for some items (like progressive land tax and personal income
tax) may even shrink. The Government is aware of this dual squeeze and is
looking for remedial measures. These are being sought through measures affect-
ing foreign resources. First, the Government is seeking a debt moratorium
from a number of previous lenders; and second, the Government is seeking
long-term commodity credits from abroad, which would provide counterpart funds
for discretionary use by the Government. Meanwhile, in its first budget, the
Government has followed the prudent course of its predecessors and has budgetted
for a 6 percent expenditure increase, of which about 30 percent would be for-
eign financed. In this situation, of a narrow tax base and low domestic
savings capacity Afghanistan requires special consideration from external
lenders, including IDA, in financing the local costs of development projects.
14.       Foreign resources did not generally constrain development in the
recent past; the country not only failed in the past to use all foreign
assistance available, but for years has run a balance of payments surplus
and correspondingly increased its reserves, beyond the level necessary for
securing import requirements. As with domestic resources, the chief problem
was limited absorptive and implementation capacity. The new Government is
committed to increase it through administrative reforms and accelerated
investment and growth. The Government also expects a sustained flow of
external assistance (including sizeable commodity aid), in particular from
the USSR, other COMECON countries and IDA. How and at what level resource
requirements and their availability will eventually balance is impossible to
gauge at this juncture; this problem reportedly is one of the reasons the new
Five-Year Plan will not be finalized until September 1979.
15.       The most pervasive past constraint to development - archaic admin-
istrative procedures and practices which choked decision-making, initiative
and any sense of achievement - is recognized by the new Government. While the
perceived need to deliver on the postulated goals of development has begun
to reduce bureaucratic red tape and remove some delays within the existing
institutional framework, the requirement to overhaul the framework itself is
acknowledged. The problems associated with this less conspicuous revolution
are truly formidable and will continue to stretch the patience of aid donors
for some time to come.
16.       In order to achieve its goal of development and to accomplish some
progress on the issues sketched above, Afghanistan will continue to require
external financial and technical assistance. As indicated above, foreign
financial assistance per se is not likely to become a development bottleneck
in the near future; more likely is a shortage of external resources for certain
priority tasks which do not match the capacity or wishes of donor agencies. A
second, but no less important problem is the continuing need to cover some
of the domestic resource requirements, in particular those connected with
project financing, by way of foreign aid. Negotiations are currently under



- 6 -
way with a large number of countries and several international organizations
to establish an aid pipeline for the new Five-Year Plan, which started for-
mally on March 21, 1979. Technical assistance, organized within a clearly
defined and recognized framework, linking assistance to institutional changes
and project preparation, remains a third matter of high priority.  In this
connection - through the institution-building ccnsequences of its project
work, usually incorporating a sizeable portion of technical assistance,
directed at increasing absorptive capacity of the country and improving its
efficiency - the Bank expects to continue to make a major contribution to
Afghanistan's future development.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN 1/
17.       The proposed credit would bring total IDA commitments to Afghanistan
to US$210.1 million (net of cancellations) for nineteen credits in various
sectors. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits to Afghanistan
as of March 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Start-
ing in 1964 with a credit of $3.5 million, IDA lending to Afghanistan has
grown steadily to reach an annual average of about $31 million for FY76-78,
compared to an annual average of about $16 million for FY73-75. IDA has
financed eight projects in the agricultural sector with credits totalling
$109 million, three credits totalling $19 million for transportation, one of
$2 million for an industrial development bank project, two for a total of
$23.5 million for water supply, sewerage and sanitation, one of $10 million
for a thermal power project, and two for a total of $27 million for educa-
tion. A $0.3 million IFC investment in the Industrial Development Bank of
Afghanistan (IDBA) was repaid to IFC following the nationalization of IDBA in
1975.
18.       Initially, the Bank Group's lending to Afghanistan was attended
by considerable difficulties. In addition to a limited knowledge of the
economy, there were a number of serious practical difficulties related to
relatively weak institutions and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. Thus,
the Bank Group's lending has tended to be directed at projects and institu-
tions where the possibilities for effective lending were best. The analytical
framework provided by the basic economic report and several sector studies
(agriculture, horticulture, livestock, industry), the development orientation
of the Government and a growing implementation capacity among Afghan institu-
tions, provide the basis for the Bank Group's future lending activities in
Afghanistan. While the emphasis will remain on the productive sectors, with
a search for improved productive efficiency (especially in the agricultural
sector), expanded foreign exchange earnings and domestic revenues, an increas-
ing knowledge of the economy makes possible a well focussed response to the
basic needs of the Afghan people.
19.       A number of further projects are under consideration.  A credit for
a rural development project was recently negotiated and a wheat production
I/   Part II of this report is essentially unchanged from that contained in
the President's Report dated March 19, 1979 (P-2491-AF) for the Third
Education Project.



project is currently being appraised. A fourth education project is being
prepared and will be appraised in June 1979. Preparation of a third irri-
gation project, a second industrial development bank project, a second
power project and a fourth agricultural credit project is also in progress.
Government has indicated that it intends to focus on regionalized rural
development, and has requested IDA assistance in devising an appropriate
organizational framework for it.
20.       In addition to its lending activity, IDA is executing several UNDP-
financed projects in Afghanistan which have been of great benefit in expanding
the country's limited administrative capability. To help ease the managerial
and administrative constraints, a long and difficult task, IDA has placed
emphasis on institution-building and training for Afghans. IDA has helped
establish several semi-autonomous agencies, (for example: the Agricultural
and Industrial Banks, and the Herat Livestock Development Corporation), the
aim being to provide the entities with the operational autonomy needed for a
viable venture. The establishment of project implementation units in operat-
ing ministries is a further step in this direction. For example, the Project
Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Education, established under the second
education project, is to be commended for its work in preparing, the Third
Education Project. Similar units have been established for a Fruit and Vege-
tables Export Project which recently became effective.
21.       Project implementation, which has been variable in the past has
shown improvement and in recent months prompt action on the part of the
Government to remove project-specific bottlenecks suggests that this improve-
ment will continue. On the other hand, we should not misunderstand the far-
reaching nature of the changes which the Government is attempting to bring
about in Afghanistan, for example land reform, and the potential this offers
for difficulties of various kinds. Insecurity in the Herat area in recent
weeks has hindered implementation of the two livestock projects. Close
coordination between the authorities and Bank staff, facilitated by the Bank's
resident mission office, will be essential to maintain the past improvements
in the process of identifying, preparing and implementing projects. The
overall picture of disbursements is now a satisfactory one. Disbursements
under earlier IDA credits were slow initially, but this situation has improved
considerably since 1976, and disbursements are now at a satisfactory rate of
about $20 million per annum. The IDA share of Afghanistan's total external
debt outstanding and disbursed were about 6.0 percent and 4.0 percent,
respectively, at March 20, 1978. For the future, the IDA share of total debt
outstanding and disbursed are estimated to reach about 6 percent and 6 per-
cent, respectively in 1980/81. It is estimated that in 1980 debt service
payments due to IDA will represent about 1.1 percent of service payments due
on Afghanistan's external debt. Afghanistan's debt service ratio in 1977/78
was about 13 percent.
PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
22.       The rugged and mountainous terrain of Afghanistan is both a cause
of the isolation of large areas of the country and a major obstacle to



- 8 -
creation of an effective, modern transportation system.  The country's
predominantly agricultural population is dispersed and its principal urban
areas widely separated. The country is landlocked, and therefore especially
dependent upon the transportation system of other countries. Despite the
economy's dependency on transportation, it is estimated that in 1975/76
transporation contributed only 2.4 percent to Afghanris-tan's Net Domestic
Product. A recent summary description of the sector appeared in the Bank's
Basic Economic Report dated March 17, 1978 (Report No. 1777a-AF).
23.       The transportation system is relatively simple (see map attached).
A roughly circular all-weather road from Herat in the west via Kandahar and
Kabul to Mazar-i-Sharif and Shebergan in the north, links the country sur-
rounding the central mountainous area. From this ring road, main roads
radiate outwards to Iran, Pakistan and the USSR. Most other roads, of a lesser
standard, branch off these roads, penetrating into the rural areas. Many of
these roads are closed seasonally by snow or floods. In general, the length
of the primary highway network is reasonable and adequate to serve the major
regions of the country, although completion of the ring road is required.
The principal need is to strengthen certain existing sections of the primary
roads, improve their maintenance, and to expand the presently inadequate
network of secondary and tertiary roads in the rural areas. There are no
railways in Afghanistan, although railways approach the borders of the
country within Iran, Pakistan and the USSR. Gas pipelines carry natural gas
to the USSR. Some of the traffic with Russia is carried part of the way by
barge on the Amu-Darya, a river which separates the two countries for a
substantial distance. There is a network of regional airfields, and inter-
national airports at Kandahar and Kabul. Air services meet an important and
growing need for more rapid domestic transport.
24.       Afghanistan faces considerable restrictions on its international
traffic, which serve to exacerbate its isolation and increase transport costs.
Approximately 70 percent of freight entering and leaving the country passes
through the USSR. Road traffic across the border is currently prohibited by
the USSR, so all freight is carried by Russian rail, shipping and road
services. Pakistan does not permit the operation of through trucks between
India and Afghanistan and nearly all freight to or from the port of Karachi
must be transhipped on to Pakistan railways. Although Afghan vehicles transit-
ing Iran have in the past been permitted to operate without difficulties,
the transit treaty, with the exception of traffic between Herat and Meshed,
does not permit the through movement of commercial vehicles from a city in
one country to a city in the other country. These international transport
routes are of vital significance to Afghanistan and it remains a constant
preoccupation of the Government t) secure improved facilities.  In a recent
move, Pakistan and Afghanistan have decided to establish an inter-ministerial
commission to oversee traffic between the two countries.
The Highway System, Transport Market and Vehicle Fleet
25.       The statistical information on transport demand is scarce and some-
times contradictory. The main sources of information are annual road traffic
counts performed by the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), toll station data,



-9-
airport and port traffic statistics, and special traffic studies conducted
by consultants for specific projects. On a national basis, road freight
was estimated by the Government at about 800 million ton-km in 1968 and at
1,300 million ton-km in 1975, representing an annual growth rate of around
7 percent. Annual growth of road traffic between 1973 and 1977 averaged about
13 percent, substantially higher than the GNP growth rate of about 3 percent
during that period. The volume of traffic varies substantially from one part
of the country to  ''r.
TRAFFIC VOLUME
EASTERN REGION            OTHER REGIONS
Average                  Average
Length of      Daily     Length of      Daily
Road (Kms)   Traffic    Road (Kms)   Traffic
Primary Roads                         650    500-1,500        1,800     100-800
Secondary Roads                       950    100-  500        1,900      50-100
Tertiary Roads                      2,600        K  100       5,300         K So
Based on the results of RCMD Traffic Department counts, the regional distri-
bution of inter-city road traffic volumes in the period 1971-75 has been
roughly the following: Eastern Region: 50 percent; Northern Region: 30 per-
cent; Southern Region: 13 Percent; and Western Region: 7 Percent. Map IBRD
14049 (attached) presents the 1977 ADT information on different links of the
network. The total road vehicle fleet increased during 1973-75 at an annual
growth rate of approximately 15 percent, with the highest increases in buses
(26 percent), taxis (25 percent) and trucks (13 percent). Unfortunately,
information on the fleet is available only for three years, and, therefore,
no firm trends can be established from it.
26.       Concerning vehicle characteristics, about 55 percent of inter-city
buses are mini-buses, with a load capacity of up to 20 passengers, relatively
new, and normally used for rather short distances of less than 100 km. Most
of the trucks are small: 71 percent have a load capacity of 6 tons or less,
20 percent between 6 and 8 tons, 7 percent between 8 and 10 tons, and only 2
percent with a capacity greater than 10 tons. The age range of trucks is
extremely wide with some units over 30 years old; most have an average age
between 5 and 10 years. In general terms, there are enough trucks on the
primary roads and on part of the secondary road network, especially of 6-10
tons. The situation is different for the remaining secondary, tertiary and
feeder roads on which it is more difficult to find adequate transport; as a
result competition among truckers i5 less strong, and the transport cost
tends to be high. The predominant type of operator is a small one, owning
only one or two trucks. Access to the transport market is free. Some of the
individual transporters are organized in transport associations which procure
and distribute shipments among their members. Consignments by Government
agencies, which account for about 40 percent of the total haulage, are handled
by the larger associations. The main goods shipped by the Government are con-
struction materials, cement, petroleum products, sugar, wheat, fertilizers,
wood, and minerals.



- 10 -
Government Regttlations and Taxation of Road Transport
27.       At the present time, there are practically no enforced regulations
on weights and dimensions of vehicles, and trucks especially are often over-
loaded. A study on this subject, financed with the proceeds of Credit 449-AF,
provides the technical basis for establishing regulations and the Bank is
seeking promulgation of the necessary legislation under the provisions of
the Credit Agreement for the proposed project. (Section 4.01 of the Credit
Agreement). While it is important to establish optimum limits for axle loads
and vehicle dimensions, it is even more essential to enforce them. The
recent creation of a Ministry of Transportation is expected to strengthen
the pressures for enforcement, but enforcement can be a gradual process,
spreading gradually to cover the principal roads as the enforcement mechanism
grows. Improved enforcement will also be required of regulations governing
roadworthiness, highway codes and other regulations. The level of customs
duty encourages purchase of second hand vehicles, which while helpful to the
small operator, may well be costly to the economy.
28.       Data on road user taxation are inadequate and it is not possible to
draw any conclusions except that by comparison with most other countries it is
low. Since there is, for the most part, no competing mode of transport this
is not a serious information gap; questions of intermodal price distortions
do not arise. However, for general revenue purposes, increased taxation on
petroleum or other forms of road user taxation is likely, and it will be
important to ensure that taxes and duties are designed so that they do not
have undesirable effects on the transport industry.
Institutional Framework for the Highways
29.       Two organizations bear responsibility for the construction and main-
tenance of roads: the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), which operates largely
through the Road Construction and Maintenance Department (RCMD), and the Rural
Development Department (RDD). In the East, South and West of the country, the
Road Construction and Maintenance Department (RCMD) has responsibility for
primary and secondary roads outside the municipalities and it is in these
areas that the two previous IDA projects have been concentrated. In the North
of the country, assistance is received from the USSR and much of the work is
carried out by the Army Labour Corps under MPW's general supervision. RDD's
responsibilities are limited to feeder roads from farming areas to the dis-
trict centers and the main roads. Area development authorities have respon-
sibility for roads in some project development areas. Despite a lack of
clarity in the institutional arrangements, the maintenance of the primary road
network has been generally adequate, although some of the main paved roads
are now in urgent need of strengthening. The principal weakness has lain in
the relatively limited capacity for maintenance and improvements to secondary
and tertiary roads. The proposed project addresses both of these problems --
strengthening and preservation of paved roads through a specific work program
and highway maintenance through continued support for an expanded maintenance
program.



- 11 -
30.       There is a long history of road construction and maintenance in
Afghanistan by departments of Government and the conscripted Army Labour
Corps. This policy and the lack of a highway construction program have
discouraged establishment of private Afghan road construction firms. Tech-
nical assistance in the two previous IDA projects has been directed at bring-
ing about more efficient and cost-effective methods in the RCMD. Although
technical assistance provided under previous IDA financed projects has re-
sulted in substantial improvements, further time is needed for RCMD to reach
a fully satisfactory standard of operation. RCMD currently has the services
of Russian and Indian technical assistance teams, but an expansion in RCMD's
activities will require additional technical support. The proposed project
will provide a few specialists to assist in executing the road strengthening
program.
Transport Planning and Financing
31.      The wide dispersion of population calls for a rather extensive trans-
port network, mainly of low-cost, low-volume roads. However, the physical
features of the country inhibit creation of the road network by raising
construction and maintenance costs, even on tertiary roads, and raising
transportation costs. As mentioned at paragraph 24 above, high costs also
characterize Afghanistan's external transportation facilities. The success
of the Government's development strategy must be measured by the extent to
which it can come to terms with these geographic and physical constraints on
the nation's development. During the first two Five-Year Plans (1957-66)
priority was given to reducing geographical isolation and integrating the
regions of the country, and about 40 percent of total development expenditures
was spent on the primary road network. During the third and fourth plans,
(1967-73), priorities changed and transport received about 10 percent of
planned expenditures. Within the reduced allocations there were significant
shifts in allocations, and in the third and fourth plans maintenance and
improvements accounted for 21 percent and 47 percent of total highway expendi-
tures respectively.  The first Seven Year Plan 1976-83, which has now been
abandoned by the new Government, was to have seen a massive expansion in
transportation investment, the emphasis being on railways however, highway
construction being limited to 6 percent of total planned expenditures.
Allocations for highway construction in the new Plan now under preparation
have not yet been finalized.
32.       The Bank's review of priorities in the Basic Economic Report con--
cluded that while new construction of primary roads should have its place,
continued priority should be accorded to improvement and maintenance of the
existing road network and upgrading of secondary and tertiary roads. The
latter are now critical to the development process in that they open up
previously inaccessible regions and permit access to outside markets and to
such public services as schools and medical facilities. The emphasis in IDA
financed projects in the subsector, including the proposed Third Highway
Project and Rural Development Projects, accords with these priorities.



- 12 -
Previous IDA Transportation Lending
33.       IDA has financed two highways projects in Afghanistan, Credits 158
and 449. Emphasis has been placed in these projects on strengthening the
Government organizations responsible for road maintenance and improvement
through organizational modifications, supply of road maintenance and workshop
equipment, training and technical assistance for a variety of studies, pre-
paration of manuals and procedures, selection and engineering of improvement
programs and other technical services. While progress on the maintenance and
improvement programs has been broadly satisfactory, although attended by
delays, progress in strengthening RCMD has been slow. The technical assis-
tance available to RCMD has had a considerable impact, but further improve-
ments are needed. Despite provision made for training programs, RCMD has
remained weakly staffed.  The Government has not yet adopted and implemented
regulations restricting axle loads, which are provided for under Credit 449
(see para. 27 above).
34.       The priorities adopted for the previous two projects remain largely
valid, and have been followed in the selection of the components for the
proposed project. Here the emphasis will remain on further strengthening
RCMD's capacity for maintenance and improvement work on existing roads, on
improved management and planning, and on training of Afghan staff. Periodic
maintenance by pavement overlays of sections of the most heavily used roads
in eastern and southern Afghanistan would form the major project component
and the project would also provide continued support for RCMD's on-going
routine maintenance work on about 4,000 kms of roads and improvement of 300
kins of tracks.
35.       IDA has also financed an Aviation Project in Afghanistan (Credit
No. 374-AF). While the physical implementation of this project, which
improved flight information services, has been completed satisfactorily, the
institutional objectives of the project have not been fully accomplished.
Further discussions are in progress with the Government on this matter and
disbursement of the remaining funds available under the Credit will depend
on satisfactory progress on these project components. The feasibility study
financed under the project demonstrated that a new airport for Kabul cannot
be justified at the present time.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Description
36.       The proposed project has emerged from the continuous dialogue which
has taken place during implementation of the Second Highways Project. During
discussions with the new Government in July 1978, it was agreed to continue to
give priority to maintenance of the existing road network, including strength-
ening of some major national roads, rather than to the upgrading of two roads
studied under the Second Highways Project. The project was appraised in



- 13 -
September 1978 and preparation of pavement overlay design for part of the
overlay program has proceeded concurrently with the appraisal process.
Engineering has been completed on 50 kms of road and, together with some
preliminary engineering for the remaining road sections, provides an adequate
basis for the appraisal (see para. 39 below). Negotiations were held in
Washington in March/April 1979. The Afghan negotiating team was led by the
President of the Road Construction and Maintenance Department and included a
representative of the Ministry of Planning. A staff appraisal report (No.
2360-AF) is being circulated separately. The project would consist of:
(i) A three-year time slice of a pavement strengthening
program extending to about 450 kms of the Kabul-
Torkham, Kabul-Kandahar and Kandahar-Spin Boldak
roads and surface dressing for preservation of about
160 kms of these roads;
(ii) A three-year time slice of a road maintenance and
improvement program, including the provision of
spare parts for existing mechanical equipment and
of replacement of equipment, to be used for improve-
ments on about 300 kms of secondary and tertiary
roads and for road maintenance on about 4,000 kms of
such roads; and
(iii) Technical assistance for RCMD.
37.       The asphalt pavements of the Kabul-Torkham, Kabul-Kandahar and
Kandahar-Spin Boldak roads, constructed in the early 1960s, were designed
on the principle of staged construction, involving timely strengthening.
Strengthening of these pavements is now a high priority. About 670 kms of
overlays is ultimately required for the three roads. The 450 kms included in
the proposed project is appropriate to the implementation capacity of RCMD
over a three-year period and to the available financing. The surface dressing
of 160 kms of road would retard deterioration of road sections which cannot be
strengthened at the present time, until such time as the necessary resources
become available. The procedures to be followed in selecting 450 kms out of
the 670 kms requiring overlays are described at para. 41 below. Part of the
equipment for the overlay program was procured under the two earlier IDA
credits; the remaining equipment requirements would be met under the proposed
project. The project would also finance part of the other foreign exchange
costs of the overlay program, including asphaltic bitumen.
38.       The maintenance and improvement program in the Eastern, Southern
and Western regions would be a continuation of the program which is currently
under implementation under the Second Highways Project, which is expected to
be completed at the end of 1979. The recurrent costs of the maintenance and
improvement program, amounting to $17.3 million would be met in full by the
Government. The technical assistance program, amounting to 90 man months,
would fill gaps in RCMD's technical expertize and would help strengthen RCMD's
planning and execution of the highway maintenance and improvement operations.



- 14 -
A cost accountant included in the technical assistance program would make a
start in establishing improved cost control in RCMD. Other institutional
improvements which will be addressed during the course of project implementa-
tion are an expanded training program in RCMD, highway planning and road
transport policies.
Cost Estimates and Financing
39.        Project costs, excluding taxes and duties which are not significant
and are waived for foreign financed items, are estimated at US$33.2 million
over the three and a half year project implementation period with foreign
exchange costs amounting to $28.5 million. No provision is made for physical
contingencies since the scope of the construction component of the project
is defined in terms of tons of asphaltic concrete to be laid. The equipment
list for the overlay program has been agreed; any variation from the appraisal
assumption for the overlay thickness would result in either more or less than
450 kms being strengthened. The new equipment for the maintenance and improve-
ment program would be replacement for existing equipment which is now beyond
repair; the list of spare parts for existing equipment has already been
prepared. Price contingencies are in accordance with Bank guidelines, and are
reasonable. The unit cost of internationally recruited staff is estimated at
$6,100 per man month. The cost estimate for the overlay program is based on
visual inspection and estimated overlay thicknesses, supplemented by detailed
pavement design on a 50 kms section and preliminary design for the remaining
sections. Since the Government has demonstrated its ability to undertake the
design, this proczedure is appropriate for a program of this nature, in which
the final design work proceeds section by section a few months ahead of
construction. The design work is relatively simple in concept.
40.        The IDA credit of $17.6 million would finance the spare parts, the
technical assistance, a proportion of the foreign exchange costs of the new
equipment for road maintenance and improvements, asphalt for the surface
dressing work, equipment for the second asphalt mixing and laying unit and
40 percent of the remaining foreign exchange costs of the overlay program.
The EEC Special Action Fund loan of $4.4 million would finance $3 million
of asphalt required for the road strengthening program and the rest of the
foreign exchange costs of the new equipment for road maintenance and improve-
ments. The remainder of the foreign exchange costs amounting to $6.5 million
and the local costs amounting to $4.7 million would be met by the Government.
Implementation, Management and Training
41.        RCMD would be responsible for the implementation of the entire
project. RCMD has completed the selection of 450 kms of overlay for the three
year time slice of its overlay program, on the basis of preliminary technical
and economic justification. Because the thickness of the pavement overlay,
apart from the 50 km section, will not be known before pavement overlay design
is completed, RCMD would later submit to IDA, for its approval prior to the
start of the works, an updated technical and economic evaluation of each
overlay section (Section 3.07 of the Credit Agreement) based on final design



- 15 -
and cost criteria. The methodology for the economic evaluation has been
agreed during negotiations. With some technical assistance, RCMD has imple-
mented a substantial program of road maintenance and improvement in the past
and, with continued technical assistance, should not experience difficulty in
continuing this program.
42.        Improvements in the capacity of RCMD to execute its responsibili-
ties are a function of many factors - equipment availability,adequate finan-
cing, practical experience and, perhaps especially, the quality of management,
staffing and training. While RCMD has made considerable progress during the
course of implementation of the two previous IDA credits, much remains to be
done. The depth of management and professional skills is still limited and
the quality of technical supervision of road building and maintenance needs
further strengthening. RCMD has been slow in implementing the training
program provided for in the previous IDA project. The Government recognizes
the urgent need for an effective training program, has recently taken steps
to reinvigorate its training program with the assistance of the School of
Engineering of Kabul University, and has agreed to regular reviews of progress
of the training (Section 3.06 of the Credit Agreement). Bank staff will give
this matter particular attention during project supervision. The technical
assistance component of the project is designed to fill gaps in expertise
available to RCMD, especially for the overlay program.
43.        The technical assistance team would have two principal functions
- training, cost control and advice, and certification of the quality of the
overlay program. These roles are of a very different nature and offer a
potential for conflict in the team's relationship with RCMD. For this reason,
it is considered preferable for the technical assistance contract to be with
the Ministry itself rather than RCMD. There are risks attached to this
arrangement, as there would be to any possible arrangement, but in the light
of experience elsewhere and the discussions with the Government we believe
this arrangement offers satisfactory prospects of amicable and effective
working relations. Signature of the Technical Assistance contract would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Sections 3.02 and 7.01(b)
of the Credit Agreement).
44.        The project would be implemented over a period of four and a half
years, with the field work lasting three years. Preparation of equipment and
spare parts lists has been completed and preparation of bidding documents was
to begin immediately after negotiations. Provision is made for the early
purchase, and direct payment to the supplier of $3 million worth of asphalt,
as well as the equipment, to help ease the Government's financing needs and
to help overcome the long lead time for delivery of such materials to a
landlocked country. Once the work commences, disbursement will be on the
basis of units of work completed, as described in paras 45 and 46 below.
Procurement and Disbursements
45.        Procurement of the equipment for the road strengthening and road
improvements to be financed by IDA and the asphaltic bitumen for the overlay



- 16 -
and surface dressing would be by international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". The spare parts
would be bought from the original supplier or through international
shopping. Technical assistance would be carried out by qualified and experi-
enced consultants and specialists to be employed by the Ministry of Public
Works on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. Procurment of
the bitumen and equipment to be financed by the EEC Special Action Fund would
be in accordance with the procedures established for the Fund. RCMD would
execute both the pavement strengthening and preservation program and the
improvement and maintenance program. An alternative means of executing the
pavement strengthening program might have been construction by local or
foreign contractors. As indicated in paragraph 30 above, there is a long
history of road construction and maintenance in Afghanistan by departments
of Government and the conscripted Army Labour Corps, and there are no private
Afghan road construction firms which could carry out this work. There has
been little recent history of highway construction work in Afghanistan by
international contractors. The landlocked and remote location, lack of
assured long-term construction programs and the role seen for the State in
the economy are the main reasons for this situation.  The use of ICB proce-
dures in this case would almost certainly lead to a long, protracted and
abortive bidding procedure, during which the paved roads would continue
to deteriorate. Since RCMD can anticipate a need for this form of road
strengthening capacity for the foreseeable future, as the need for main-
tenance of the primary roads expands, it is considered essential that RCMD
build up a capacity and capability for this kind of work.
46.       Disbursement of the IDA credit would be made against 100 percent
of the foreign exchange expenditures or 100 percent of the local expenditures
ex-factory on equipment; 100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditures
on spare parts and asphalt; 100 percent of the foreign expenditures on con-
sultants and experts' services; and $17.5 per metric ton of asphaltic con-
crete, mixed and laid according to acceptable engineering standards. The
amount of $17.5 per metric ton is a residual derived from the amount of the
IDA credit available for this component after the other project items have
been financed. The leader of the Technical Assistance team would provide a
certificate as to the quantity and quality of the overlay as a condition of
disbursement for this component (para 5 of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agree-
ment). Disbursement of the EEC Special Action Credit would be against 100
percent of the foreign exchange expenditures or 100 percent of the local
expenditures ex-factory on equipment; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures
on asphalt.  Disbursement on the basis of a fixed amount per ton of asphaltic
concrete laid would strengthen RCMD's incentive to execute the pavement
strengthening program in a businesslike manner.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
47.       As indicated in paragraph 32 above, the priorities in the highway
sub-sector are maintenance of the existing road network and improvements and
upgrading of secondary and tertiary roads. In a general sense, a major



- 17 -
benefit of the project would be continued support of RCMD by IDA during a
period when it is expanding its capacity to undertake these tasks. The bene-
fits of this institutional strengthening cannot be quantified, but are, of
course, very important. More specifically, parts of the primary road network
are reaching the end of their working life and a strengthening program is now
a high prioriLy. The proposed project would make a substantial contribution
to this program, with savings in vehicle operating costs and in maintenance
and eventual reconstruction costs. Although the precise thickness of the
overlay has still to be defined for some sections, the economic return for
the road improvements, even on the most costly assumptions, lies between 19
percent and 59 percent with an overall return of 42 percent. Under less
costly assumptions, the economic return for individual sections would rise
accordingly. Although practical considerations of plant location and general
logistics have been taken into account in selecting the 450 kms, the sections
to be included under the project are generally those which have the higher
economic returns. The benefits of the road maintenance and improvement
program are reduced transport costs and savings in road rehabilitation which
would become necessary in the absence of adequate maintenance. The economic
rate of return of this program is estimated to exceed 70 percent and the
benefit/cost ratio at 2.3.
48.        The principal direct beneficiaries of the project would be road
users. However, due to keen competition in the transport industry, it is
expected that savings in transport costs would soon be passed on to producers
and consumers. Since about 75 percent of traffic on paved roads consists of
buses and trucks, most of the direct benefits would accrue to work and
business related traffic. On the lesser roads, competition is less keen due
to the lower level of traffic. Improvements are, however, expected to result
in higher traffic levels and more competition; thus any degree of monopoly
pricing would tend to be eroded.
49.        The principal risks to the project relate to the ability of RCMD
to execute the project on schedule.  RCMD has proved its ability to execute a
road maintenance and improvement program, but the overlay program is a larger
task, which demands a higher level of managerial and technical ability. While
RCMD's capacity to fulfill such tasks is increasing, technical assistance is
still necessary, and is provided under the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Afghanistan and the Association, the draft Credit Agreement
between the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan and the Association as Admini-
strator of the EEC Special Action Fund, and the recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
51.        Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.



- 18 -
52.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and that the proposed Special
Action Credit would be in conformity with the agreement between the Associ-
ation, the EEC and its member states dated May 8, 1978.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 22 , 1979
Washington, D.C.



19-                                         Annex 1
Paoe 1 of 5 Dages
TABLE 3A
ACIHANISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEUT
UnREP cE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGS
LAND AIM (TBOUSARD SO. E                                                       MOST RECENT ESTI SATE)  CZ
TOTAL            435.0                                                    SAME        SmE      NUT HIGHER
AGRICJIUUAL      14.5                                  MOST RCItZT      GEOGRAPHIC   IHIUH(       INCOME
1960 a      1970 lb ISTIATE lb       REGION jc   GR0t37  d    CRO01  jj
cs Pr   CAPITA  MU                    90.0        110.0     190.0            117.6      182.9       432.3
URGT CONSKPTIOUN PER CAPITA
(ILOGRM  Of  AL EQUIVALENT)         15.0        33.0       43.0            65.7        U.9        251.?
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS
TTAL  OPULATION,  ID-TR
(MILLIONS)                         9.9 L[    12.3 A   14-15                 .
051  POPULATIa  (PUcENT OF TOTAL)  6.0           10.7      14.3             125.       15.0        24.2
POPULATIN DOuSiT
PER SQ. 3X.                        16.0        19.0      23.0             05.2       46.6        42.7
PSI SQ. Dl. AG4CULTURAL LA=D      71.0         87.0      99.0           322.6       254.1        9.0
POPMLATION1 ArE STRUCTURE (PRCUT)
0-14 YES.                         41.9         43.2      45.5            44.0        43.6        44.9
15-64 YEns.                        54.6         14.2      51.3            52.9        53.3        52.8
65 YnS. AND ADo                     3.3          2.6       3.2              2.9        2.9         3.0
POPULATIO CaUIrS  RATE (PUCU)
TOTAL                              2.2 L        2.2 L     2.2              2.2        2.4         2.7
URNA                               5.2          5.2       7.2 h            4.2        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RAT?. (PER THDUSAND)     49.0        48.7      51.4             45.1       46.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RAT1 (PEP THOUSAND)      34.1        27.6      30.7             17.3       19.7         12.6
GROSS REPRODUCTIl AN .U.                          3.4       3.4              3.2        2.9         3.2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, AMAL (THOUSANS)                       .       15.3
USERS (PRCINT OF XARRIZD Was)    ..              ..       1.0             13.7       14.6        14.2
OOD A9D NUATRITION
INDEY OF  OOD PoOHCTIoN
PUR CAPITA (1910-100)             113.5       100.0     106.7             95.6       96.4       104.3
PR cAPITA suPpLY or
CALORItES (PEnCEPT OF
RlQUIMTS)                        66.0        78.0      83.0             91.1       92.3        99.5
PSOTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)          65.2         58.0      61.5             49.6       50.0        56.8
OF WLICH ANIAL AD PUSS             ..        11.0       8.5             12.6       13.9        17.5
CHILD (ACZS 1-4) I3TALIrY RATS         ..           .      2A.1               ..         ..         7.5
REALTR
L-FE ESPECrANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    3t.8         37.6      35.0             43.1       45.8        53.3
INFANT MIRTALITE RATS (PR
THOUSAND)                              ..          ..     269.4             99.5      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAP! WATER (PESCOT OP
POPULATII)
TOTAL                               ..          3.0       9.0             30.0       26.4        31.1
U38Am                                ..        18.0      40.0             66.3       63.5        0.5
RURAL                               ..          1.0       5.0             17.2       14.1         16.2
ACCESS TO EXCUTA IISPOSAL (PE3CUT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ,,         21.0      21.0             15.7       16.1        37.5
URR                                  ..        69.0      63.0             66.9       65.9        69.5
RLAL                                 ..        16.0      15.0              2.5        3.4        25.6
POPUlATIN0N PER PHYSICIAN         22450.0 Li  14660.0   12930.0           8830.8    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSQ3    23210.0 l   21080.0   11660.0            8479.3     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATICI PER HOSPITAL BED
OTAL                             5950.0 Li   5240.0    5210.0           1624.5     1157.6       786.5
U1543                               ..       1090.0        ..               ..      183.3        276.4
1                                    ..      9650.0        ..               ..     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         9.6         ..              ..       19.5         19.2
HOUSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAI.                               ..          ..         ..              ..        5.2
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..        4.8
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMbER OP PERSONS PZR ROO
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..
UR                                   ..          ..         ..              ..        1.8          2.3
RWEAL                                ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..       25.9         28.3
URB"                                 ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..        8.7         10.3



- 20 -                                           Annex 1
Paae 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
AFGHAYISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
Ai7GHANISTAN                                              a{
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGCER
IDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 b      1970 Lb ESTDMATE Lk        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   9.0 /k      21.0 Lk    29.0 k/          59.1        62.9        75.8
FEMALE                 2.0 /k       6.0 /k    5.0 k/           38.4        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                    1.0 /k       6.0 /k    8.C k/           19.9        14.4        17.7
FEMALE                 0.3 /k       1.0 I    1.0 k/             9.9         8.8         12.4
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 11.01k          4.2 Sk    9.0 k/            1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIARY                               ..         41.0 ft   37.0 k/           38.2        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                             ..         24.0 ft   18.0 k~/          23.5        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          8.0         10.0       11.0 I/          35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5          3.0        3.0 /i           2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          6.0        6.0             14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                ..         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    5.0          6.0       27.0              6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            1.1         ..               ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TEOUSANDS)           ..           ..    4700.0 /1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    16.9         17.9       18.3             21.3        24.2         28.0
ArRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 ..           ..       52.9             62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)m/                  ..           ..      19.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         35.1       34.2             35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  59.1         56.4       54.7             52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                12.4         12.8       12.8             15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  ..          ..        1.5              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..             42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..              7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       86.0             80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       84.0             67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       53.0               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       53.0             39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       18.0             50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       36.0             44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unlesa otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1978.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  Population (and also GNP per capita) data relate to fiscal year beginning March 21;  a  Dif-
ference between UN rate of satural increasa and World Bank nonulation growth rate due to different popu-
lation estimate; /h 1970-76; /i Based on the latest appraisal mission estimate. /j 1962;
/k Public education only; /I aged 8 years and over. /m Industry including Handicrafts.  I/19772
September, 1978



- 21 -                                                                     Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                       Pa    3  of   5  pages
Note:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric Means, excluding the extreme values of the iSdicator and the most
populuaed cou try in each group.  Coverage of countries a.oog the indicators depends on availahility of data and is not uniform,.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Sryla Oil Expurters and indicators of  access to .ater and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
ninple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialieed hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures., market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation  -eters.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not  included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and medt-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (bht by a medical an-
calculated hy sane converstio  method as ford bank Atlas (1975-_7  bahos);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer is-patient accnmeaodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total nuaber of admissions to or discharges
iNERGf CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of conercial energy                       fron hospitals divided by the eucber of beds.
(coal and lignite, pecroleun, natural ges and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUTSISG
Average sian of househnld (persoos per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION ANDI VITAL SIATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-pear (millions) - As of July 1; if not asaiahie,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1971, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical parposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
urban populasion (percent If cotal) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect co-parability                    Average number of persons Per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nun-
of data among coantries.                                                                  ber of persons per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings,  respectively.  Swellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilo=eter (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per as. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Ccnventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
PoPulation age structure (sercest) - Children (0-14 yearn), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired  (65 years and over) as percentages of aid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female esroll=eot of all agec
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60.                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively pr-nary school-age
1960-70, aod 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude hirth rate (per thousand) - Annasl live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal eda-
mid-year population; tan-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollnent nay emceed 100 percent since none pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as abooe; second-ry educa-
year population; ten-yeararrithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending In 1971 for Most racent esti=ate,                             ides generrl vocationol, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Irons reproducticn rate - Average enhber of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal ,eprodactive period if she experiences preunt age-                          excluded.
specific fertility  rates; usually floe-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions ;n-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other progra=s vhich operate independently
Family planning - acceptorsa  annual (thousands) - Annual nuxber of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-controi devices under auspices of national faoily                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled c
planning program.                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by nu=bers of teachers in the carre-
Family planning - usera (Percent of married women) - Percentage of                          spnnding levels.
married wanes of child-bearing age (15i-4  years) who use birth-control               adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all Married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
tOOD .041 NUTRIIOlN                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-lDO) -             .nion nu=ber of per        7assenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor oars
capita annual production of nil food cormodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; e-ciudes ohbulances, hearses and military
fer capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies availahle in country per capita                fadio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
por day.  Available suppliea comprise domestic produtc-on, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exporte,  and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal fend, sends,              receivrer  incountries and is years wArs regisirarion of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since eost coutries
quire=ennt  were estimated by FAO based on physiological seeds for nor-                abolished licensing.
mal activity an.d health considering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand copulation) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weight., age ard sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; e-cludes unlicensed TV rec-ivers in coon-
cent for ounte at household level.                                                        tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Far capita eupply of protein (arams per day) - Protein cosnant of par                    fewocoser circulation  (per thousard opaplatiom) - ihowa the average ciocula-
capita net supply of fed par day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tian of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical puhlt-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minixum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at leant four tines a ceek.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Bnsed on the number of tioketo
These stondards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cine=as and nubile
"3 grams of animal protein ao  an average for the world, proposed by                     units.
'AP in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EhPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Efonomtcally active persons, including armed
Child (ages i-b) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, stnudnts, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tions in various countries are not comparable.
ale  rcent) - Female labor force on parcentage of total labor force.
tEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, fooresty, hunting and fishing
Life expectancv at birth (yearn) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, =anufacruring and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    farticipation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live bihts,.                                                 tmale labor force as ptrcentages of their respective populations.
Access to aafe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting ace-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonbale access to                      str-cture of the popcltion-, od Iong tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   iconomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and I--- tc
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, spritrg,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populatiors.
In an urban  a          la a puhiic fountain or standpost located not more           INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 20  meters fro= house. may ho oosidered en being within rea-                     Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest s
nonable access of that bous.  In rural areas reasonable access co. Id                     perct,  rhest 20 percent, poorest 20 perct, and p-nss  40 percnt
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                       of hou hold.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to encreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urhan, and                   Estimated absolute poverty income  level ((US  per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served hy 55cm  no                       Absolute poverty income level Is that income level below whIch a minimai
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                         nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with ar without                         affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systema                    Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar irstallations.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population por physician -Population divided by number of practicisg                 Per capita persona  inoun  of the coun.try.
physicians qualified from a medical school at -niversity 1evel.                        tinni tcd  P.uatis  below p-rc  Incne leve  (pr-c  - urpao  and rural -
Populanion per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Pronnt o  population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relati-e poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Econunic and Social Dta lDivision
Efonotic Analysis and Projections Depart=e-t



-22-                                           Annex 1
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORs
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH1' ( constant Prices)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975176
(At 1975/76 constant prices)                                                1965/66-      1968/69       1976/        1977/
US$ m1.                  1968/69       1975/76       1977         1978
GNP at Market Prices                               1976        100.0           ..             3
Gross Domestic InvestDt --t
Gross National Saving-
Cuirrent Account 1aWA                              -54            - 3                         1         -70.       +126.0
Export of Goods 224                                                                                                    6.1
Imports of Goods                                    278           14           ..            14          -1           21.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PlRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76a'
Value Added                 Labor Force                  V.A. per Worker
US$ Mln.       7.         Thousands   % of total            USS           2
Agriculture                                977.65      55.4          2492.8         52.9              392.2         104.7
Handicrafts and Industry                  241.10       13.7           929.0         19.7              259.5         69.3
Services                                   545.24      30.9          1073.5         22.8              507.9         135.6
Unallocated                                 -            -             87.2          1.9
Unployed                                     -           -            127.5         2.7
Total/Average                      1763.99     100.0          4710.0       100.0               374.5        100.0
GOVERNM9ENT FINANCAI
(General GoverAmt)
(Afs. million)
i974/75     1975/76     1976/77     1977/78
Current Receipts                                       10.250      12,025       14,011      14,849
Current Expenditures                                    6.300       9,020       11,067      10,432
Current Surplus (Deficit)                               3,950       3,005       2,944        4,417
Capital Expenditures       S/                           4,648       6,065       10,550      11,215
External Assistance (groes)-                            2,958       4,644       4,453        7,251
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICE-61
1971172     1972/73     1973/74     1974/75       1975/76     1976/77      1977/78
(Million Afs. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                  10262       12309        13901       15195        17822        23784       26500
Bank credit to Public Sector (not )                     7490        8940       10269        11118        11188       13680        12395
Bank credit to Private Sector                           3485        4253        4259         5253         5585        6802         5730
Money and Quasi Money as Z of  D7P                                   14                                    16.4
General Price Index(1968/69 - 100)                     135           120        115.3       131.4          139.8      142         158.5
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                     10.5        -11.1        -3.9        13.9            6.5         1.6       11.6
Bank credit to Public Sector (net)                                    19.4       14.9         8.3             .6         8.4       22.3
Bank credit to Private Sector                                        22.0          .1        23.3           6.3         21.3       -9.0
NOTES:
1/ IBRD estimates. The historical figures are based on crude approximations and as such the growth
rates reported are mere orders of magnitude. On the GNP breakdown, the available figures are very crude
and therefore, the Gross  Domestic Investment and Gross National Savings figure2 have not been reported.
2/ No figures are available for NFS separated into Exports and Imports; instead, net figures for "Other
current account" are supplied under Balarne of Pavments.
3/ Settled population and nomads.
4/  Since figures on GDP at current prices are not available, it is not possible to provide estimates of Govezr   t
Finance as a I of GDP.  Moreover, no separate figures on Central Goverrnent finances are available.
5/  Portion of development expenditure financed by foreign aid.  To find its US Dollar equivalent, an official exchange
rate 45 Afghanis to 1 SDR and the respective annual average SDR, US$ ratio should be used on a number of Goveroment
transactions.
6/ Year ending March 20.
7/  Estimates on GDP at current prices are only available for 1972/73 and 1975/76.



- 23 -                         Annex 1
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITA!. FL0NS                Page  5 of 5 pages
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                  (US$ Million)              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Prelim.                                              Per-   Prelim.   Per-
1976/77      1977/78                                    1976/77  cent   1977/78   cent
2/
Exports of Goods                                282.5          322.0             Dry Frruits and Nuts    68.2    23.0    82.9         26.5
liports ot Goods                                327.6         419.5             Fresh Fruits              23.0      7.7    22.9        7.3
Resource Gap (deficit   - )                     -45.1          -97.5            Karakul                   le.3      6.5    18.5        5.9
8/                                                          Cotton                    b .7    20.4    55.0        17.5
Interest Payments                                -8.4          -12.9            Carpets and Rugs          23.4      7.9    38.5       12.3
Other Factor F'ynients (Net):                                                   Natural Gas               39.6    13.3    39.3        12.5
Travel (net)                                  29.4          37.1             All Other Cosmmodities  62.9    21.2    56.4          18.0
Investment Iticome frum                                                              Total           297.1   100.0   313.5    100.0
foreign assets                            2.7            7.2
Embassies  expenditures (net)                  3.0           2.8
Service Component of                                                                                                 12/
Project Aid (niet)                         -10.7         -22.1             EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, March 20, 1978-
Other current Acu7unt (net
transfers)-                                16.6          20.9                                                       US$ MilLion
Balance on Current Account                      -27.9          -63.3
/                         7                              Outstanding,inclg. undisbursed                1,831.0
Net Loans and Grants -78.1                                    167.8                    Disbursed                              1,058.6
(Disbursemeats)                             (98.9)       (200.3)                   Undisbursed                             832.4
(Amortization)                             (-20.8)       (-33.1)
Service Payments (1977/78)                      37.4
Other Itemns n.i.e.                               15.1          61.2                   Interest                                  11.9
Increase in Researves                            65.3          l57                      Amortization                             25.5
Gross Reserves (end year)                       212.3          366.9-L                                           13_/
Net Reserves (end year)                           ,,,           ...             Debt Service Ratio  (1977/78)                     137
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports
Exports                        ...           ...
RATE OF EXCHANGE           Free Rate
1971/72        -  US$    1.00 -Afs.  84.60
Afs.   1.00 2US$.    .0118
1972/73        -  us$.   1.00 -Afs.  80.50
Afs.   1.00   US$.    .0125
1973/74        -  US$.   1.00 - Afs.  60.72
Afs.   1.00 - US$.    .0165
1974/75        -  us$.   1.00 - AEs.  56.58
Afs.   1.00 -us$.    .0177
1975/76        -  US$.   1t.00 = As.  55.04
Afs.   1.00 = US$.    .0182
1976/77        -  US$.   1.00 -Afs.  47.38
Afs.   1.00 - US$.      .0211
1977/78        -  US$.   1.00 - Af.  43.99                                                           February  1979
Afs.   1.00 - uS$.    .0227
1978/79        -  US$.   1.00 - Afs.  39.34
Afs.   1.00 - US$.    .0254
NOTES:
8/   Althotgh thts is recorded as a grons figure, it cani be as6sumed to be net becausc interest received is negligible.
9/   Data on Workers  remittances are not available, althoughi these flows are probably sizeable.
IO/  No breakdoxm  of lonns and grants ts available.
It/ At end December 1978.
12/ No figures on external private debt are available.
3/  E.clude; net puraia,es of fiseign exchalnige ,by the Cenitral 8ank.



- 24 -                   Annex II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)-/
US $ million
(less cancel-
Credit                                                                    Amount   ations)
Number    Year       Borrower         Purpose                                IDA   Undisbursed
158       1969       Afghanistan      Highway Maintenance I                   5.0   Fully disb.
202       1970       Afghanistan      Agricultural Credit I                   5.0   Fully disb.
248.0     1971       Afghanistan      Irrigation                              5.0   Fully disb.
248.1     1976       Afghanistan      Irrigation                             10.0      7.6
374       1973       Afghanistan      Aviation Communications                 2.5      1.3
375       1973       Afghanistan      Livestock I                             9.0      1.5
380       1973       Afghanistan      IDBA                                   2.0       0.5
449       1973       Afghanistan      Highway Maintenance II                 11.5      2.7
539       1975       Afghanistan      Agricultural Credit II                13.0       0.3
563       1975       Afghanistan      Kabul Water Supply and Sanitation    9.0         4.1
627       1976       Afghanistan      Thermal Power                         10.0   Fully disb.
649       1976       Afghanistan      Livestock II                          15.0      13.0
674       1976       Afghanistan      Education II                            6.0      5.8
721       1977       Afghanistan      Agricultural Credit III               12.0       9.4
778       1978       Afghanistan      Irrigation II                         22.0      22.0
779       1978       Afghanistan      Fruit and Vegetable Exports           18.0      18.0
836       1979       Afghanistan      Kabul Water Supply and Sewerage       16.5      16.5
89a       1979       Afghanistan      Education III                         21.0      21.0
Total                                                 192.5
Total now outstanding and held by ID bl               192.5
Total undisbursed                                               123.7
a/ Not yet effective.
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
1/ Credit No. 68 for an Education Project in 1964 was cancelled at the Government's
request in 1970. A sum of $0.3 million which had been disbursed for the project
uwas consolidated under Credit 248.
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Ir,vestment No.       Year                  Institution          Loan     Equity      Total
243                   1973        Industrial Development Bank   -           0.3        0.3
of Afghanistan
Total gross commitments, less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                  0 0.3      0.3
Total undisbursed



- 25 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 248 - First Khanabad Irrigation Project: US$5 million Credit of
June 11, 197' Effectiveness Date: December 22, 1972; and $10 million
Supplementary Credit of January 12, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 19,
1976;   Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
The major civil works contract was awarded to a local public cor-
poration after international competitive bidding. Although the project is
about a year and a half behind schedule, quite good progress was made in 1977
and 1978 on the construction of the diversion structures and lining of canals.
Major construction is now nearing completion. The agricultural extension
services are unsatisfactory. However, this inadequacy is being addressed
under the Second Khanabad Irrigation Project (Credit 778).
Cr. No. 374 - Aviation Project:   US$2.5 million:  Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: November 26, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Flight Information Center, the major project component is now
complete and appears to be functioning satisfactorily. Government delays in
consultant appointment and bid award resulted in a cost overrun of $2.5 mil-
lion which has been financed through bilateral aid. Engineering/feasibility
studies have been completed. The institutional improvements required under
the Credit Agreement have been designed but they have not yet been put into
effect.  These include the establishment of the Air Navigation Authority as a
separate entity with its own Charter, and a modern commercial and management
accounting system for it.
Cr. No. 375 - First Livestock Development Project:   US$9.0 million Credit of
May 2, 1973; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1974; Closing Date: October 1,
1979.
Construction of the slaughterhouse is now complete. Administrative
weaknesses which caused initial delays in its operation are being dealt with,
and recent progress included the signing of a meat contract, and the provi-
sion of an exchange rate export incentive to the Herat Livestock Development
Corporation. However, administrative bottlenecks remain a severe constraint
to successful project implementation. Progress of the on-farm development
component of the project has been generally satisfactory following the imple-
mentation of a set of modified loan security requirements in late 1975. The
Herat Livestock Development Company sent its first group of technicians
abroad for training in May 1977.   An outstanding project feature is the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
success of the Experimental Range Improvement Centre in conducting surveys
which have resulted in the accumulation of a wealth of information on range
productivity, movement of nomadic flocks, and flock production data which will
be of value in formulating future livestock range management projects. Proj-
ect implementation has recently been hindered by insecurity in the project
area, political events in neighboring Iran which have prevented export of meat
to that country, and difficulty in getting good quality consultant staff to
serve there.
Cr. No. 380 - Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan IDBA Project: US$2.0
million Credit of May 15, 1973; Effectiveness Date:  November 20, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
In September 1976, the Board approved the allocation of the entire
$2 million credit, originally planned for several sub-projects, to one public
sector project, Badghis Cotton Ginning.   After initial delays due to bottle-
necks in civil works, the plant is now under construction. US$1.5 million of
the credit has been disbursed. Construction is expected to be completed by
August/September 1979; there is however a risk of slippage to 1980.
Cr. No. 449 - Second Road Improvement and Maintenance Project: US$11.5
million Credit of December 21, 1973; Effectiveness Date: June 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
An amount of US$2.7 million remains undisbursed of which US$2.2 mil-
lion has been committed. Upgrading of about 75% of the road length designated
under the project is complete. Institution building so far has not been
entirely successful, but slow progress is nevertheless being made.
Cr. No. 539 - Second Agricultural Development Bank Credit: US$13.0 million
Credit of April 25, 1975; Effectiveness Date: July 24, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The credit is now fully committed. A sum of $300,000 remains
undisbursed. Implementation of the Third Agricultural Credit Project has
begun.
Cr. No. 563 - Kabul Water Supply ant Sariitation Project:   US$9.0 million
Credit of June 23, 1975;   Effectiveness    Date:  December 23, 1975; Closing
Date:   December 31, 1980.
Project progress although somewhat behind schedule, remains satis-
factory overall. Major contracts for pipe supply and pumping equipment have
been awarded; delivery has begun. Civil works construction has commenced.
The Central Authority for Water and Sewerage continues to expand and con-
solidate its management capability with help from consultants and a financial
advisor.   Revised billing and collection procedures have been implemented.
Meter installation has commenced. Construction of the associated Afshar
project financed by the Federal Republic of Germany is expected to start
shortly. A study to design a feasible sanitation program is in progress.



- 27 -                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 627 - Thermal Power Project, US$10.0 million, Credit of May 17,
1976;  Effectiveness Date:   November 10, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30,
1979.
The physical facilities are now complete. However, progress on the
institutional side has been slow. Although energy losses have been reduced,
Government has yet to establish a revised charter for DABM, and DABM has
to improve its financial management. Government and DABM have yet to agree
on DABM's financial target for 1979/80, which was suggested by IDA as an
intermediate objective before the agreed rate of return objective of 8% in
1980/81.
Cr. No. 649 - Second Livestock Development Project, US$15.0 million, Credit
of June 28, 1976; Effectiveness Date:        September 27, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Project implementation is now gathering momentum following initial
delays; and 4 Sheep Improvement Center sites have been identified. Except for
the credit component, disbursements are behind schedule largely because of pro-
curement delays. Consultants have been appointed and mobilized. Contracts for
the supply of drilling machinery, road maintenance equipment and vehicles have
been awarded. Field surveys to select appropriate sites for the remaining
Sheep Improvement Centers are in progress. A pilot range development project
will be implemented shortly. Excellent progress has been made in the Sheep
Vaccination program with the establishment of 11 animal health centers. As
in the case of the First Livestock Project, political events in neighboring
Iran and insecurity in the project area have recently hindered project imple-
mentation.
Cr. No. 674 - Second Education Project, US$6.0 million, Credit of January 7,
1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:   April 30, 1982.
While the project is currently delayed by about 15 months, project
completion is expected to be 3 months behind schedule. The results of the
recent civil works bids were unsatisfactory, but Government is attempting to
conclude satisfactory contracts. Furniture and equipment lists are being
finalized. The agricultural teacher training program is making good progress
with the arrival of specialists financed by ODM.
Cr. No. 721 - Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
June 20, 1977;   Effectiveness Date:  September 20, 1977;  Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
As part of the Credit, AgBank has begun implementation of an agreed
program for upgrading the status and standard of branch offices and staff,
and to delegate more authority to both lower echelon headquarters staff and
branch directors. However, due to changes of several key branch directors,
following the change in Government, the program has recently suffered a set-
back. Steps are also being taken to further improve the fertilizer program
by which AgBank makes about 60,000 short term loans annually for fertilizer



- 28 -                 ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
and productive inputs to farmers, including large numbers of smaller land-
owners. The impact on AgBank of recent Government decrees including inter-
alia debt forgiveness for small and landless farmers, and a revision of the
Land Reform Law has not been adverse up to the present. Clarifications of
the Government's intentions on land reform should result in progress of the
land settlement component. Arrangements for the Fertilizer Study are being
finalized. A decision on the establishment of the Supply Department as a
separate entity will be taken following review by Government and IDA of
various alternatives.
Cr. No. 778 - Second Khanabad Irrigation Project; US$22 million Credit of
April 10, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The terms of reference for a consultant to carry out all engineering
and agricultural project work including the setting up of agricultural exten-
sion services in the project area and a review of the national agricultural
extension and research services have been finalized. The terms of reference
for a consultant, who would carry out a feasibility study for the Warsech Dam
have been finalized, and proposals have been invited.
Cr. No. 779 - Fruit and Vegetable Export Project; US$18.0 Credit of
September 27, 1978; yet to be declared effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
The associated UNDP project has been signed, and a project director
selected. The credit was declared effective on May 15, 1979.
Cr. No. 836 - Kabul Water Supply and Sewerage Project, US$16.5 million Credit
of August 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The credit was declared effective on December 4, 1978, and project
implementation has commenced.
Cr. No. 893 - Third Education Project, US$21.0 million Credit of April 13,
1979; yet to be declared effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The credit was signed on April 13, 1979.



- 29 -                    ANNEX III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare  the project:                           Eight months (June 1978 -
February 1979)
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:             Road Construction and
Maintenance Department
(Ministry of Public Works)
(c)  Date of first presentation to the
Bank and date of the first Bank
mission to consider project:                    July 1978
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:   September 18, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:              April 10, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   December 15, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Financing of an initial stock of asphalt for the road strengthening
program.
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) Signature of the Technical Assistance contract (para. 43).
Other Conditions
(ii) Regular reviews of progress of RCMD's training program (para. 42).
(iii) Submission to the Association for its approval prior to the start
of works on each section to be strengthened of a technical and
economic evaluation of each such section based on final design and
cost criteria and consistent with the agreed three year program
(para. 41).
(iv) Enactment of regulations governing vehicle dimensions and axle loads
by December 31, 1979 (para. 27).






. ,     ;:*r                                        U             S              S              R                                         //             f   Z                                  7       6R39U  Y s 
_ ~~~~I    A  - . 
-tX   *_  PAK 5TAM,  CS 4                                                                                       t_     -                     \                                 ,~~~~~~~~'4
'            |                                  fji>iW^ffig'  ;g  W945  dD~t:','~-        ah '' :~~~S'  '''
\   t           y W              '                  S              A                         4      i~~~~A                                        DEMCRATIC REPULIC OF AFHNSA
-5e-1|)w  - t--''|flgs   v) @z't--                       <        4'         (___- _             \ ]THIRD  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
<    _  i  X   X   X                   k        0    aT        /      Z   /         9      o                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVERAGEDAILY TRAFFIC ADT)
; 8 ' 1X 4' 82 i U tV ~~~~~r                                                                                                       'r:,...... <   UEi ADT > 1000 VA,.1-e
)t   __   2,                     r,,#i2L_.                                                                   UCRL_RS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XV'- ADT 401 - 1000 Vehkle-
/ 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'1  ;/ 5p.n8krW5  ADT 201  -400 Vhcles
/  ,\   '                            zI j                                                                       iLUA.3* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADT 101 -200 Veh,nles
wto~~~~~                               ~          ~        ~~~~~~~ 50 tc     1 S IOE5  20 200                   ADT  51- 100 Vehd-e
X   i                       o j                                                                           - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADT 20 -50 Veh'l-h  r
/  ___                                     ;                                                                              --  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADT  < 20 Vehlce-
( 9 * ;^o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,i *~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Regionol  C-n-r or Pr-6r.1a C.P,t.1,
\                                     _       ~~~~~~~~~   Xdo8mrss^^"rmd'l'<                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Villooes
\ ~~~~~~~~~ _ r 9 fls n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V i ges ( End of R-sd Linkl
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.t- B-d-I                     I



