CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 927 AF
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 25, 1979


﻿r-
CREDIT NUMBER 927 AF
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1979, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF AFGHANISTAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter called   the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requestéd the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinaf ter provided;
and'
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association, as
Administrator' of the Special Action Account. established with funds
contributed by the Member States of the European Economic Commu-
nity, to provide additional assistance towards the financing of
the Project from the resources 'of the 'Special Action Account
and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Association as Administrator of the Special Action Accouht
established with funds contributed by the Member States of the
European Economi,c Community (hereinafter called the Special
Action Credit A;reement), the said Administrator is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to about four million four hundred thousand dollars
($4,400,OO) (hereinafter called the Speciai Action Credit);
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the, basis inter alia
of the foregoing,- to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLEI
General Cönditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Devélopment
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the -Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
91:


﻿'CC?
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context'otherwise requiresi the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Special Action Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association, as
Administrator of the Special Action Account established with funds
contributed by the Member States of- the European Economic Commu-
nity, for the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be
amended from otime to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
International Development Association, dated March 15, 1974,
as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Special Action Credit Agreement and all schedules thereto;
(b) "RCMD" means the Road Construction and Maintenance
Department of the Borrower; and
(c) "Afghani" and "Af" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the tems and conditions. in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventeen million six hundred thousand dollars
($17,600,000).
Section 2.02.o The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the-Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿00
-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date. shall be June 30, 1984 or such
later date as the Association shall establish.   The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service "charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November -1 in each year.
Section02.07. The Borrower °shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing November 1, i989,  and ending May 1, 2029,
each installme1nt to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent, (1/2 of 1%),.of such
principal amount, and each installment thereaf ter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount
Section- 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General ,Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section' 3.01. The® Borroide(ýr shall carry out the Project
through¢its RCMD with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities,, services and other resources required' for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Irn order to assist the Berrower in the carrying
out åf the ProjectC and in training RCMD staff, the Borrower shall
emply a firm of consultants, with qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof


﻿to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Ass,icia-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specificatIons,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project., and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the bpnefits to be derived from it), to
identify the, goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods, financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrow4        and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be


﻿-5-
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, from time to time upon the
Association's request, review with the Association, the progress
of the Borrower's program for the training of highway maintenance
personnel, and, shall carry out all such measures as may be
neccessary for the effective implementation of the said program.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, prior to commencing any
works, furnish to the Association technical and economic justifi-
cation, satisfactory to the Association', for each overlay section
of the roads included under Part A of the Project, of which the
total traffic density, the traffic composition, the present
pavement condition and the thickness of the required overlay shall
be similar. The pavement thickness designs and technical standards
for the execution of pavement works shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) take all measures reasonably necessary to ensure at all
times that the dimensions and axle loads of the vehicles using its
highways do not exceed limits consistent with the design standards
of such highways;
(b) not later than December 31, 1979 or such other date as
shall be agreed with the Association, adopt and put into full
force and effect regulations, acceptable to the Association, for
the purposes set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c) thereafter, take all measures necessary to ensure that
the limits imposed by such regulations on such dimensions and
axle-loads in accordance with such design standards are duly
observed.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause its highway system to
be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineering
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, equip-
ment, facilities, staff, services and other resources required for
. . . .  . . .


﻿the purpose, and in particular, shall ensure that adequate amounts
for road maintenance are included in its budget each year.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 5.02. Without limitation upon the generality of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that,
with respect to asphaltic concrete on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account and until one year after the
Closing Date, all records evidencing (i) the quantities of such
asphaltic concrete produced and laid for the road strengthening
program under Part A of the Project, and (ii) the quality of said
asphaltic concrete on the basis of laboratory tests, are retained
and shall make such records available to the Association's accre-
dited representatives upon their request for inspection.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, subject to paragraph (c)
of this Section:
(a) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Special Action
Credit Agreement;
(b) the Special Action Credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof; and
(c) paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall not apply
if: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
p4I
, i; 03
Ml_J;


﻿77
obligations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified in
paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveress of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the.
Special Action Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(b) the contract between the Borrower and the firm of con-
sultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement has become
effective in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.02. The date December 27, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section .12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.C. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Public Works of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿8
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Works.
P.O. Box 577
Kabul
Afghanistan
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINWORKS                           41 RCMD AF
Kabul, Afghanistan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCÀ) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
By /s/ A. G. Farahi
vi   Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. 'P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
___9


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: (?
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Pavement                    7,000,000         100% of eligible
strengthening                                amounts on ac-
under Part A                                  count of dsphal-
of the Project                                tic concrete as
shall be agreed
between the Bor-
rower and the
Association
(2) Equipment for as-           3,500,000         100% of foreign
phalt mixing and                              expetditures and
laying unit                                   100% of local
expenditures,
ex-factory
(3) Asphalt required            12000100q         100% of foreign
for surface dress-                           expenditures
ing under Part A
of the Project
(4) Equipment for Roads         1,200,000         100%of foreign
Maintenance and Im-                           expenditures and
provement Program                             100%'of local
under Part B of the                          expenditures e
Project                                      factory
(5) Spare parts for             22800,000         100% of.foreign
existing                                    expenditures
ment
1, 20S00M00Iofreg
.expenditures_and
100                                                    ofloa
exenitre,


﻿o -                                                    10
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Finanted
(6) Technical Assis-              700,000         100% of foreign
tance                                        expenditures
(7) Unallocated                 1,400,000
TOTAL.     17,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
thé currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territry of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or suppl)'thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required 'to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Amounts eligible for financing under Category ,(1) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be the
equivalent of $17.5, per metriC ton of asphaltic conciete laid or
such other unit amount as may be agreed (between the Borrower and
the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) payments made for


﻿- 11 -
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) amounts
to be financed under Category (1) of this Agreement unless the
Association shall have received, with respect to each withdrawal
on account thereof, a statement in a form satisfactory, to the
Association, from consultants responsible for quantity and quality
control of the pavement strengthening program under Part A of the
Project, which shall certify (A) the quantities of asphaltic
concrete laid in carrying out pavement works under Part A of the
Project, in terms of tonnage of such asphaltic concrete, (B) the
quality of such asphaltic concrete and its 'application in accor-
dance with the requirements of Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to-another CAtegory and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet ot41_i expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement pf any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures $et forth or referred to in this Agreement , no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's  easonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which wou.l4 otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceed uf the Credit.
A.


﻿-12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
(A) a three-year time slice of the pavement strengthening
program of the Borrower for the Kabul-Kandahar, Kabul-
Torkham and Kandahar-Spin Boldak roads comprising
asphaltic concrete paving of about 450 km of road
sections: and surface dressing of about 160 km of road
sections, all such sections to be selected in agreement
with thé Association;
(B) the carrying out of a three-year time slice of the
maintenance and improvement programoof the Borrower for
the part of RCMD's road network not referred to in Part
A above; and
(C) the improvement of RCMD's planning and operational
capabilities.
*              *              *
The Pro ject is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿13-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Itternational Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and civil
works ,for the-Project shall be procured under contracts awarded
in acdfordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.  ;For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
nati,nal. competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
the,'keto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shl reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
pullication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
toi prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
wrks remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price f6r imported goods,
or,,the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
*    14


﻿71
-14-
Afghanistan may be granted a margin of preference in accordanice
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Afghanistan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Afghanistan equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Afghanistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and,any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
thee group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
ato
impt t


﻿WH I14I
0                      '-15 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Spare parts for existing equipment may be procured either
from the supplier or manufacturer thereof or, wherever practi-
cable, by international shopping.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for asphaltic bitumen and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid rand the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to ,which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without. the Association's concurrence, materially, differ from
those on which bids were asked.


﻿-16-
(d) Two cofiformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution. Such contract
relating to equipment shall be furnished prior to the submission
to the Association ;of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to 'each contract not governed by the preced-
ing paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the,
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The, Association sihall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the duidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification c waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
The Borrower may carry out the mixing of the asphaltic
concrete and the paving of roads therewith under the Project
through RCMD.


