                                                 CONFORMED COPY




                             SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 18 AF




      $tø




Special Action Credit Agreement
                  (Third Righway Project)


                         between


            DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN


                           and


           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
      as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
           established with funds contributed by
   the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMUNITY




                   Dated June 25, 1979
                                   SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 18 AF


                    SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1979, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF AFGHANISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO-
CIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action Account established
with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECO-
NOMIC COMMUNITY.

     WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and ita Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting
                                                                as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;

      (B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would
                                                                be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2,
                                                              1978
referred to above; and

      (C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
                                                             by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
                                                            IDA
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) IDA
                                                             is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to seventeen million six hundred thousand
dollars ($17,600,000)  (hereinafter called the IDA Credit); and

     WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit
                                                           to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set
                                                           forth;
    NOW THEREFORE    the parties   hereto hereby agree   as   follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                 General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions- Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,




       af~j
                               -2-

dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):

     (a)  the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;

     (b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;

     (c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03,   4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and

     (d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.

     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
 Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
 Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
.The United Kingdom;

       (b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
r ferred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
inent;

      (c) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
 even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose of
 the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to-time;
 and, such.termtheludes the General Conditions Applicable to
                                                      G1~
                                                3

         Development Credit Agreements of IDA, dated March 15, 1974, as
         made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
         the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules thereto;

              (d)  "RCMD" means the Road            Construction and -Maintenance
         Department of the Borrower; and

              (e)   "Afghani"   and   "Af"   mean the currency    of the Borrower.


                                         ARTICLE II

                                The Special Action Credit

              Section 2.01 The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower
         on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit Agreement
         set forith or referred to, the, ollowing currency amounts:

             five million three
             hundred thirty-three
             -thousand                       Belgian francs         (BF5,333,000);

             six hundred sixty-
             four thousand                   Danish kroner            (DK664,000)

             two million five
             hundred sixty three
             thousand                        Deutsche marks         (DM2,563,000);

             twó million seven
             hundred ten thousand            French francs          (FF2,710,000);

             five thousand nine
             hundred                         Irish pounds              (IR£5,900);

             three hundred fourteen
             million f-our hundred
             sixty-two thousand              Italian, lire       (ITL314,462,000);

             one, hundred sixty-
             eight thousand                  Luxembourg francs       (LY168,000);
2seven             hundred nine
             thousand                        Netherlands guilders (DFl 709,000);
                                           -4-


                and

                six hundred fifty-three
                thousand five hundred     Pounds sterling         (Z653,500).

                Section 2.02. (e) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
           may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
           provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
           be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
           the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
           shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
           goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
           of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.

                (b)  Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
           tures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
           or services supplied from, (i) any of the Member States and (ii)
           any developing country which is a member of the International
           Development Association and could be the recipient of a Special
           Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator.

                (c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
           respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
           of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
           payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
           or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.

                Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall 'otherwise
           agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
           oi the Special Action Credit shall be governed by the provisions
           of Schedule 31to this Agreement.

                 Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984,
           or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
           Adminisfrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
           date.

                 Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall p y to the Administrator
           a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
           of 1%) per annum, on each of the various ,currency amounts with-
           drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
           The amounts of service charges 'in various currencies so found, and
           additionael service charges (if any) payable pursuant to Section
           3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
           of the United States of America, or in an ther currency selected




Av".
       W                                              ,.
                                -5-


by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (b) of this Section, after their conversion into such
currency on the basis of exchange rates determined in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.

      (b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International, DevelopmPnt
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, 'service charges shall be payable in such other currency.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.

     Section -2.07.  (a) The Borrower shall repay the" principal
amount of thä Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 1989
and ending May 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment pyable on May 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) "of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.

      (b) Each of the installments paya.ble pursuant to garagraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such,amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount =in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable "insta=llment percentage as specified in
paFagraph (a) of thisý Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each pay-
ment date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional
currency amounts.

     (c) If withdrawal shall have been made in; a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased - with one or more other
currencies for the pårpose of';such withdrawal, the portion of, the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been Withdrawn oin
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currenci:es so used.
                                     6


       d) The Administrator w:1l, at the requést of the Borrower
and on such terms and, conditions as the Admidistrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient, funds therefor in
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extente that the Administrator has
received such paytent in the currency or currencies required.


                               ARTICLE III

                        Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. The Borrower =shall     carry out the Projeýct
through its RCMD with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly ,as needed, the fund-,
facilities, services and other resourc€ýs required for thé purpose.

      Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the cärrying
out, of, the Project and training RCMD staff, the Borrower shall
employ a fitm of consultants with qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the BorÉower
and the AdministratorG

     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the                Action Credit against
                                               fpecial
hazards incident   to  the  acquisition,    transportation    and delivery
thereof to the place    of  use  -or installation,   and  for  such,,insur-
ance any indemnity   shall  be  payable  in  a currency  freely  usable by
the Borrower to  replace   or  repair  such  goods.

     (b)  Except as the Administrator shall otherwiåe ag+ree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds 'of the Special Action Credit to be used exclusively
fpr the Project,.

     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Administrator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
                                        -7-


        procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
        tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Admin-
        istrator shall reasonably request.

              (b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and pro-
        cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
        (including its  cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
        identify the goOds and services financed out of the proceeds of
        the Special Action Credit, and to disclose their use in the
        Project; (ii)  shall enable the Administrator's accredited repre-
        sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
        in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
        proceeds of the Special Action Credit and any relevant records and
        documents; a d (iii) shall furnish to the Administrator at regular
        intervals all such information as the Administrator shall reason-
        ably request concerning the Project, its   cost and, where appro-
        priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
        proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the goods and services
        financed out of such,proceeds.

             (c)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
        event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
        later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
        and the Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
        the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
        the Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and
        initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
        derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
        and the Administrator of their respective obligations under the
        Special Action Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
        purposes of the Special Action Credit.

              Section 3,-05. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
        all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
        needed all such land- and rights in respect of land as shall be
        required for carrying out the Project and,_shall furnish to the
        Administrator, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
        tory to the Administrator that such land and rights in respect of
        land are available for purposes related to the Project.

             Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, from time to time upon the
        Association's request, review with the Association, the progress
        of the Borrower's program for the training of highway maintenance
        personnel, and shall carry out all such measures as may be nec-
        cessary for the effective implementation of the said program.




    V
I
                               -8-


      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, prior to commencing any
works, .furnish to the Administrator, technical and economic
justification satisfactory to the Administrator, for each overlay
section of the roads included under Part A of the Project, of
which the total traffic density, the traffic composition, the
present pavement condition and the thickness of the t-quired
overlay shall be similar. The pavement thickness designs and
technical standards for the execution of pavement works shall be
satisfactory to the Administrator.

                            ARTICLE IV

                          Other Covenants

     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures,   in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.

     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:

     (a)  take all measures reasonably necessary to ensure at all
times that the dimensions and axle loa ds of the vehicles using its
highways do not exceed limits consistent with the design standards
of such highways;

     (b) not later than December 31, 1979 or such other date as
shall be agreed with the Administrator, adopt and put into full
force and effect regulations, acceptable to the Administrator for
the purposes set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section; and

     (c)  thereafter, take all measures necessary to ensure that
the limits imposed by such regulations on such dimensions and
axle-loads in accordance with such design standards are duly
observed.

      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its  highway system
to be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineering
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds,
equipment,   facilities,  staff,  services and other resources
required for the purpose, and in particular, shall ensure that
adequate amounts for road maintenance are included in its budg.t
each year.
                                    9-


                               ARTICLE V

                   Remedies of the Administrator

     Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified- pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof4. namely, that, subject to paragraph (c) of
this Section:

      (a) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Development Credit made to the Borrower for the financing
of the, Projéct shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 'the Development
Credit Agreement providing therefor; or

     (b) the Development Credit shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed naturity thereof; or

     (c) paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall not apply
if: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Bor rower from other sources on. terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.

     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:

     The event specified in   paragraph (b)   of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.


                              ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Sectiong 12.01, (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that, all condition'sprecedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agfeementi, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfiLled.




                                                                        1iz-
                                                                         l,,
                                  10


     Section 6.029 The date December 27,    1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV and .Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on whith the Special Action Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date fifteen years\ýaf ter the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.

                              ARTICLE VII

             Represntative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 7.01. The Minister of Public Works of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministry of Public Works
          P.0. Box 577
          Kabul
          Afghanistan

          Cable address:                      Telex:

               MINWORKS                            41 RCMD AF
               Kabul, Afghanistan

     For the Administrator:

          Administrator of the Special Action Account
           (International Development Association)
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.Co, 20433
          United States of America

          Cable address:                       Telex:

               INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
                                                    -64145 (WUI)


                                                                      Q.
                                      -*11                   -




      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first  above written.


              DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN



              By Is/ A. G. Farahi
                                             Authorized Representative



              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
              as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
              established with funds contributed by
              the ME9BER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY



              By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and NortlQkýAfrica




            711




                                                                         1
                                      -   12


                                    SCHEDULE 1

                        Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
                               Special Action Credit

    1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
    financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
    allocation of the -amounts of the Secial Action Credit to each
    Category and the percentage for itels so to be financed in each
    Category:

                                   Amount of the
                               Special Action Credit              % of
                               Allocated (Expressed           Expenditures
           Category           in Dollar Equivalents)         to be Financed

    (1)   Equipment for             1,000,000            100% of foreign
          maintenance                                    expenditures and
          and improve-                                   100% of local
          ment program                                   expenditures,
          under Part B                                   ex-factory
          of the Project

    (2)    Asphalt re-             3,000,000             100% of foreign
           quired for pave-                              expenditures
           strengthening
          yunder Part A of
           the Project

    (3)   Unallocated                400,000


                      TOTAL        4,400,000


    2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
    adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
    dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
    Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
    accyrdingly.*

    3.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
    in the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied

    *     The dollar amounts shown in the-foregoing table are cal-
          culated on the basis of the same exchange rates as the
          exchange rates on the basis of which the currency amounts
          specified 'n Section 2.01 are calculated, so th   the dollar
-         amounts shown represent the dollar equivalents of those
          currency amounts as of the date on which such exchange rates
          are in effect.
                              -   13   -



from, (i) any of the Member States and (ii) any developing country
other than the Borrower which is a member of the International
Development Association and could be -the recipient of a Special
Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator; and

     (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbuisement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.

6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of        Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of . all    expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all   expenditures thereunder shall have been made.

7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
               17l




                                                             -14


                      Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
                      out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
                      istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
                      right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
                     °Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
                     currency, amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
                      trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
                     which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
                     proceeds of fthe Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
                     tures.




-
                                                 r
                                                                                           a




         Qj.




    --                                       i       i   i    6




                                                                                           ~ü
                                            15




                                        SCHEDULE 2

                                Detcription of the Project

              The Project consists -o    the following Parts:

         A.   a three-year time slice of the pavement strengthening program
              of the Borrower for the Kabul-Kandahar, Kabul"Tarkham and
                             Boldak, roads comprising asphaltic concrIete
              paing of about '450 km of, road sections and surface dressing
              of about 160 km of road sections, all such sections to be
              selcted, in agreement with the Administrator;

         B.   the tarrying out of a three-year time slice of the mainte-
              nanccand improvementt program of the Borrower for the part of
              RCMD's road network not referred to in Part A above; and

         C.   the improvement of RCMD's platining and operational capabil-
              ities.


                            *                *               *


              The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.



                                                                                                       r




-   --                                                                  .. .   .   .   -   . --   ..
                                  -   16-




                                -16-


                             SCHEDULE 3

                             Procurement
A.    International Competitive Bidding

1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement and except as provided in Part C
hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described, in Part A of the Guidelines.

 2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2
of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to the
Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first  tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the .Administrator
shall reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. The Borrower shall' provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long' as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.

3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i)      bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f.   (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii)  customs duties and other import taxes on imported -goods,
and sales and simi-lar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii)  the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery 'of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.

B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the. procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
                                 --   -   17




                                -17-


Afghanistan may be granted a margin of preference in      accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:

     1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and compdrison of bids.

     2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:

          (1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
                Afghanistan if the bidder shall have established to
                the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Adminis-
                trator that the manufacturing cost of such goods
                includes a value added in Afghanistan equal to at
                least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
                goods.

          (2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
                in Afghanistan.

          (3)   Group'C: bids offering any other goods.

      3.  All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
eva Lated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then W compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the (award.

      4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group *C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of' this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties> and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid;,"of (11) 15,% of- the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs: duties and taxes exceed 15%'of such price. If
the group A bid in such,further comparison is the lowest, it
I

      shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
      which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
      lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.

      C. 4 Other Procurement Procedures

      1.   Spare parts for existing 'equipment may be procured either
      from the supplier or manufacturer thereof or, wherever practi-
      cable, by international shopping.

      2.   Equipment estimated to cost $50,00 equivalent or less may be
      procured through normal trade channelsi

      D.     -Review of,Procurement Decisions by the Administrator

      1.   Review of invitations to -bid and of proposed awards and final
      contracts:

           With respect to all   contracts for equipment and asphalt
      estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:

           (a) 'Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
      the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invita-
      tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
      together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
      followed for the bidding, and shall make ,uch modifications in the
      said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
      request. Any fur-ther modification to the: bidding documents shall
      require the Administrator's concurrence bEfore it is issued to the
      prospective bidders.

            (b)  Af ter bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
      rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
      the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it intends
      to award the contract and shall furnish to the Administrator, in
      sufficient time for its   review, a detailed report on the evalua-
      tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
      recommendations for award and such other information as the
      Administrator shall reasonably request. The Administrator shall,
      4,f it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
      with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borröwer
      and state the reasons for such determination.

          (c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
     without the Administrator's° concurrence, materially differ from
     those on which bids were asked.




    ~:i1~.                                         ______________0
                                 19


     (d)  Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnishe'.
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first  application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.

2.    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first    application for withdrawal of funds
 ""om the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such tontract, together, with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such =other   inf or-
mation as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The Adminis-
trator shall,, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the rea3ons for such determination.

3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
tärms and conditions-of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
                                                                 or
issuing any change order under such contract (except, in cases of
extteme urgency) wich would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Administrator of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or. change ordervand the reaéons therefor. The Administrator, if
it determi-nes 3that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisidnå of this Agreement, shall promptly, inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for. its determination.




           v,l
