Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2565-AF
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 22, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                             February 22, 1979
Currency Unit: Afghani (Af.)
US$1    : Afs. 40.24                         Afs. 40.0
Af. 1   : US$0.02485                         US$0.025
Note:  An exchange rate of Afs. 40.0   US$1 has been used to
calculate project costs.
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 to March 20
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACCSI        -        Afghan Cartographic and Cadastral Survey Institute
AFC          -        Afghan Fertilizer Company
AGBANK       -        Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan
CIDA         -        Canadian International Development Agency
DCD          -        Department of Cooperative Development
EHD          -        Environment Health Department
FAO          -        Food and Agricultural Organization
HLDC         -        Herat Livestock Development Corporation
IFAD         -        International Fund for Agricultural Development
MEU          -        Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
PCCRD        -        Presidents' Council for Coordination of Rural Development
PDPA         -        People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan
PRDC         -        Provincial Rural Development Council
RDD          -        Rural Development Department
RPIU         -        Regional Planning and Implementation Unit
UNDP         -        United Nations Development Program
USAID        -        United States Agency for International Development
WHO          -        World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
GHAZNI-WARDAK AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Democratic Republic of Afghanistan.
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Agriculture
Rural Development Department
Agricultural Development Bank of
Afghanistan (Agbank)
Amount:              US$ 16.5 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    The Government would onlend the  equivalent of $4.5 mil-
lion to Agbank for 15 years including 5 years of grace, at
an interest rate of 4.5 percent per annum. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:        The project aims to raise the incomes and standards of
living of the rural poor in an area of Afghanistan where
some 60 percent of the people live in absolute poverty
with per capita incomes below $85. The project includes
(a) agricultural investments in minor irrigation rehab-
ilitation, agricultural extension and applied research,
credit, veterinary and cooperative services, range manage-
ment, and cadastral survey; (b) investments in rural
infrastructure including minor road improvements and
village water supplies; (c) project planning, coordina-
tion, and evaluation; and (d) related technical assis-
tance, and feasibility studies. Some 62,000 farm families
including about 3,000-4,000 nomad and transhumant families
would benefit directly from the Project. In addition some
100,000 people would benefit indirectly. Although the
limited experience and capacity of the executing agencies,
and the substantial dependence on community participa-
tion are recognized as risks, the careful emphasis on
institution-building, and the expert assistance and train-
ing to be provided should limit these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan/
Government,
AgBank
Cost                              and Bene-
Estimated Cost             Local  Foreign  Total  IDA  IFAD  UNDP ficiaries  Total
and Financing Plan:        -----US$ million-----  ----------US$ million-----------
Minor Irrigation
Rehabilitation             2.0    3.0       5.0   3.2   2.6    -         0.9      6.7
Agricultural Credit          4.0    1.2       5.2   2.1   2.6    -         2.0      6.7
Veterinary and Range
Management                  1.8    0.9      2.7   0.6   0.5    -         2.4      3.5
Applied Research &
Extension                  2.1    0.5       2.6   1.5   1.2    -         0.8      3.5
Cooperatives                 0.7    0.2       0.9   0.5   0.4    -         0.3      1.2
Cadastral Survey               -     0.2      0.2   0.1   0.1    -          -       0.2
Minor Road Improvements    2.7    3.0         5.7   3.6   2.9    -         1.1      7.6
Village Water Supplies       0.3    0.9       1.2   0.7   0.5    -         0.3      1.5
Project Unit                  1.6    1.1      2.7   1.4   1.1    -         0.7      3.2
Technical Assistance         0.7    2.3       3.0   1.5   1.1   1.0         -       3.6
Feasibility Studies          0.1    0.9       1.0   1.3    -       -        -       1.3
Total Base Cost             16.0   14.2    30.2  16.5  13.0   1.0          8.5    39.0
Physical Contingencies       0.9    0.3       1.2
Price Contingencies          4.6    3.0       7.6
Total Project Cost          21.5   17.5    39.0
/1   Includes physical and price contingencies.
Estimated
Disbursements:                       IDA FY        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
----------US$ Millions----------
Annual                           1.7    4.8    3.1    3.2    3.7
Cumulative                       1.7    6.5    9.6   12.8   16.5
Rate of Return:       18 percent.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2297-AF dated May 8, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan for the equiv-
alent of $16.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance an Agricultural
and Rural Development Project.  The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) would make a loan of $12.5 million for 50 years including
10 years of grace, with a 1 percent service charge per annum, and provide a
$500,000 technical assistance grant. UNDP would provide US$1.0 million for
technical aissistance, with IBRD as the Executing Agency. The equivalent
of $4.5 million would be onlent to the Agricultural Development Bank; of
Afghanistan (AgBank) for 15 years including 5 years of grace at an interest
rate of 4.51 percent per annum. The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
General
2.        The Basic Economic Report distributed to the Executive Directors
in April 1978 (Report No. 1777a-AF) - The Journey to Economic Development -
provides an assessment of the economic situation, development achievements
and prospects, and constraints for future economic and social development in
Afghanistan. The findings of that report were summarized in my report to the
Executive Directors, dated June 20, 1978 (Report No. P-2357-AF) in which I
recommended a credit for a Kabul Water Supply and Sewerage Project. The
broad issues discussed in these reports give perspective to a summary of the
recent developments in the economy.
Current Siltuation
3.        The performance of the Afghan economy rests heavily on the agricul-
tural sector. Yearly changes in agricultural production reflect primarily
weather conditions. In the four years from 1972/73 - 1976/77 agricultural
production grew steadily at an annual average rate of 2.6 percent peaking at
a level of food self-sufficiency in 1976/77. In 1977/78 insufficient rainfall
during the winter and spring followed by hot weather during the growing season
resulted in a drop in crops of 10 percent and in heavy animal losses. The
decline in food-grain production led to an important price increase during the
second part of the year, partly because Government wheat imports were ordered
too late. A substantial recovery of agricultural production occurred in
1978/79. Food grain production rose by 6 percent. It is possible that the
1/   This section is essentially unchanged from the corresponding Parts of the
President's Reports for a Third Education Project (No. P-2491-AF dated
March 19, 1979), and a Third Highways Project (No. P- 2564-AF dated
May 22, 1979),



-2-
level of output in 1979/80 will fall because of insufficient rain and snowfall
during the winter. In addition, the land reform will, for reasons discussed
below, certainly disrupt production temporarily to some degree. Accordingly -
and given the large share of agriculture in GNP - economic growth is likely to
be small in the next 18-24 months.
4.        The overall budget deficit expanded sharply in 1976/77 to a level
equal to one-third of total expenditure. Foreign aid fell short of expecta-
tion, and the Government relied heavily on the banking system to finance
the deficit. In 1977-1978 the budget deficit declined by 10 percent while
revenue rose by only 6 percent after a period of continued growth. After a
dramatic increase in 1976/77, development expenditures levelled off in
1977/78 partly as a result of delays in project preparation and implementa-
tion. Due to abandonment of the Seven-Year Plan by the new Government (see
para 14 below), some slackening of major new investment decisions before the
new Plan targets are formulated in the fall of 1979 can be expected; only
then will the domestic resource position come clearly into focus.
5.        Although the trade deficit was large from 1974/75 to 1977/78, net
receipts from services and capital flows exceeded the deficit. As a result,
the surplus on the balance of payments doubled in 1975/76 and tripled in
1977/78 compared with the 1974/75 level. Cumulative balance of payment
surpluses are reflected in the accumulation of official foreign exchange
holdings, in the accumulation of reserves up to a level of almost 12 months
of import requirements in 1978, and in the substantial appreciation of the
Afghani. The Afghani has appreciated more or less continuously in the bazaar
market since 1971, but since 1976, policy measures were introduced to restrain
this appreciation. During 1978/79, the central bank successfully intervened
in the market so that the exchange rate which for a period reached Afs. 32 to
the dollar, fell to Afs. 40 to the dollar by the end of 1978. A large part
of the recorded surplus originates in remittances of Afghan workers living in
Iran. The official figures, however, do not fully reflect the actual flows,
due to the importance of the informal financial sector. The level of these
remittances, and hence the current payments surplus, must be considered
uncertain as a consequence of events in Iran.
Economic and Social Priorities of the New Government
6.        On April 27, 1978 the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan
(PDPA) overthrew the regime of the former President Daoud; the new Government
is headed by Noor Mohammad Taraki, President of the Revolutionary Council and
Secretary General of the Central Committee of the PDPA. The Prime Minister is
Hafizullah Amin. The PDPA has committed itself to an ambitious program of
action, and particularly to the following goals: land reform, adult literacy,
expansion of primary education, increased access to secondary and to higher
education, provision of basic health services, equal rights for women, reduc-
tion of unemployment, revision of the tax system, and strengthening of the
public sector. In addition - and in fact as a pre-condition for significant
progress on any of these issues - the new Government is in the process of
instituting a major overhaul of the administrative system to make it more
action-oriented and more effective in responding to economic, political and
social conditions.



- 3 -
7.        These goals and the initiatives taken to accomplish them correspond
to a large degree with the recommendations contained in the Bank's recent
basic economic report. The "basic needs" program recommended in the basic
report as an integral part of the development strategy is also a key element
of the program of the PDPA and the Government, under the corresponding label
of "food, health and shelter" for all citizens. The basic report was dis-
cussed with the new Government in February 1979. The mission found itself
in broad agreement with the Government with respect to the diagnosis of the
economic, social and institutional constraints to development.
8.         With the new Government only one year in office, and in vi.ew of
massive personnel changes in the upper and middle echelons in the adminis-
tration, the Bank's assessment of the progress made so far is necessarily
derived less from the analysis of firm economic data than from the accumula-
tion of subjective impressions brought back by a large number of Bank missions
which have been in Afghanistan during the past year and from the efiective-
ness of various Government agencies in regard to requests for inforrmation or
decisions made by these missions.  All these missions have noted a new commit-
ment to development, combined with an impressive seriousness of purpose. A
very open and rewarding dialogue has been possible on effective approaches
to achieve the various goals. However, the Government recognizes the far-
reaching nature of the changes it seeks to bring about and the potential this
offers for difficulties of a political, economic or social nature. Given
reasonable stability, however, there is a confidence that considerable headway
in tackling Afghanistan's formidable development problems is now within reach.
Development Issues
9.         Land reform and reform of the social structure of the rural sector
are the Government's first priorities. Three recent decrees address themselves
to these problems. Decree No. 6 cancels all debts owed by sharecroppers and
agricultural laborers. Debts owed by farmers owning less than 2 hectares and
secured by land or crops are written down, and their terms are reduced; Gov-
ernment has indicated that institutional credits will not be affected. The
Decree may however, have a serious impact on the supply of private credit and
place a heavy burden on institutional credit. Decree No. 7 promulgated for
"ensuring of equal rights of women" raises the legal age of marriage and
places a limit on financial transfers at marriage, hitherto a major cause of
indebtedness. Decree No. 8 deals with land reform (the previous land reform
law of 1973 had not been enforced and led to insignificant transfer of owner-
ship). The land reform decree limits the size of land holding to 6 hectares
of Class I land (irrigated and suitable for double cropping) or its equivalent
in lower grade land, and it provides for the distribution of expropriated land
primarily to landless labor and sharecroppers, up to a limit of 1 hectare of
Class I land or its equivalent per family. The decree also limits future
fragmentation of redistributed land and requires equitable distribution of
water on irrigated land. To implement the land reform, the Government has set
up 100 expert teams which are carrying out the complex task associated with
the redistribution, initially in 10 of the 26 provinces of the country, on a
village-by-village basis. Land distribution began in early December 1978 and
by the end of March, about 250,000 hectares were officially reported to have
been distributed among over 100,000 families. The Government has announced
that the land reform will be completed in all provinces within about a year
and that about 675,000 families will benefit ultimately, probably more than
one-third of all families in rural areas.



- 4 -                                                  I
10.       One severe transitional problem to be faced in connection with the
land reform is the provision of implements and inputs for the new farmers,
who as tenant farmers relied on credit from money lenders and landowners.
For obvious reasons - because of the sheer size of numbers and the absence of
any bankable collateral of the great majority of farmers - an extension of
conventional institutional lending cannot completely resolve the problem.
The Government, therefore, is pinning its hopes on a rapid expansion of the
cooperative movement. The number of cooperatives has already increased from
150 one year ago to 250, and is expected to reach several thousand upon
conclusion of the land reform. Although Government spokesmen assert that
membership would be voluntary, the cooperative movement is expected to ulti-
mately comprise almost all farmers. Although a revised cooperative law has
been issued and encouragement given to the creation of farmer's credit unions,
it is recognized that the rapid expansion of cooperatives does not by itself
resolve the credit supply problems, and that during the difficult transitional
phase ahead severe shortages of qualified staff in the cooperatives, the lend-
ing agencies (essentially the Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan)
and in the Government extension service will most likely impede agricultural
production temporarily.
11.       Another high priority program of the new Government is the rapid
expansion of elementary education. Primary schools are being set up with
voluntary labor and teacher training is being stepped up as a part of the
expansion of secondary and higher education. In addition, the PDPA has
launched an ambitious adult literacy program, using volunteer teaching staff
and make-shift facilities. One of the most severe tests ahead - stimulated
by Decree No. 7 mentioned above - is the extension of both primary education
and the adult literacy program to women, who in the rural areas were all but
completely left out in the past.
12.       For industrial development, following the nationalization measures
of 1973, large-scale industry has been almost entirely in the public sector,
where the record has been poor. The new Government is making efforts to
correct some of the most severe deficiencies, such as virtual absence of
enterprise accounting, and bureaucratic management practices with a minimum
of independence and accountability. While the future industrialization policy
will, for a number of reasons, continue to emphasize the expansion and pro-
motion of large-scale public enterprises, the Government exhibits awareness
that for purposes of employment generation, as well as for processing agri-
cultural products, procurement of basic consumer goods and production inputs,
the promotion of small- and medium-sized industry - by necessity largely in
the private sector - cannot be disregarded. While the Government has not
expressed a strong formal commitment to that end, there are indications
that it is in the process of gearing up institutional arrangements for the
promotion of small and medium-sized industries.
13.       In the past, domestic resource availability was not a major con-
straint for development since resources (both domestic and foreign) tended
to exceed absorptive and implementation capacity. In the coming years,
however, domestic resources are likely to emerge as a major new bottleneck of
development. The programs of social and economic transformation are likely
to be accompanied or followed by a rapid rise of development and current ex-
penditures in these areas, even under the most generous assumptions about the



-5-
impact of 3elf-help and voluntary services. In addition, sizeable debt
service payments for public external debt will put additional new burdens on
the budget.. In fact, the new Government is facing an almost insoluble dilemma,
because of its commitment to social progress and the identification of these
subsidized services with that goal. On the revenue side, the major tradi-
tional sources of revenue - like import duties, income from public enterprises,
export sales of natural gas, and corporate and individual income taxes - are
unlikely to grow fast, and for some items (like progressive land tax and
personal income tax) may even shrink.  The Government is aware of this dual
squeeze an(i is looking for remedial measures. These are being sought through
measures a:Efecting foreign resources. First, the Government is seeking a debt
moratorium from a number of previous lenders; and second, the Governmnent is
seeking long-term commodity credits from abroad, which would provide counter-
part funds for discretionary use by the Government. Meanwhile, in its first
budget, the Government has followed the prudent course of its predetcessors and
has budgetited for a 6 percent expenditure increase, of which about 30 percent
would be foreign financed. In this situation, of a narrow tax base! and low
domestic savings capacity Afghanistan requires special consideration from
external lenders, including IDA, in financing the local costs of development
projects.
14.       Foreign resources did not generally constrain development: in the
recent past; the country not only failed in the past to use all foreign
assistance available, but for years has run a balance of payments surplus
and correspondingly increased its reserves, beyond the level necessary for
securing imnport requirements. As with domestic resources, the chief problem
was limited absorptive and implementation capacity. The new Government is
committed to increase it through administrative reforms and accelerated
investment and growth. The Goverrment also expects a sustained flow of
external assistance (including sizeable commodity aid), in particular from
the USSR, other COMECON countries and IDA. How and at what level resource
requirements and their availability will eventually balance is impossible to
gauge at this juncture; this problem reportedly is one of the reasons the new
Five-Year Plan will not be finalized until September 1979.
15.       The most pervasive past constraint to development - arch;aic admin-
istrative procedures and practices which choked decision-making, initiative
and any sense of achievement - is recognized by the new Government. While the
perceived need to deliver on the postulated goals of development has begun
to reduce bureaucratic red tape and remove some delays within the existing
institutional framework, the requirement to overhaul the framework itself is
ac:knowledged. The problems associated with this less conspicuous revolution
are truly formidable and will continue to stretch the patience of aid donors
for some time to come.
16.       In order to achieve its goal of development and to accomplish some
progress on the issues sketched above, Afghanistan will continue to require
external f'inancial and technical assistance. As indicated above, foreign
financial assistance per se is not likely to become a development bottleneck
in the neaLr future; more likely is a shortage of external resources for certain
priority tasks which do not match the capacity or wishes of donor agencies. A
second, but no less important problem is the continuing need to cover some



-6-
of the domestic resource requirements, in particular those connected with
project financing, by way of foreign aid. Negotiations are currently under
way with a large number of countries and several international. organizations
to establish an aid pipeline for the new Five-Year Plan, which started for-
mally on March 21, 1979. Technical assistance, organized within a clearly
defined and recognized framework, linking assistance to institutional changes
and project preparation, remains a third matter of high priority. In this
connection - through the institution-building consequences of its project
work, usually incorporating a sizeable portion of technical assistance,
directed at increasing absorptive capacity of the country and improving its
efficiency - the Bank expects to continue to make a major contribution to
Afghanistan's future development.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN 1/
17.       The proposed credit would bring total IDA commitments to Afghanistan
to $226.6 million (net of cancellations) for twenty credits in various sectors.
Annex 11 contains a summary statement of IDA credits to Afghanistan as of
March 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Starting in
1964 with a credit of $3.5 million, IDA lending to Afghanistan has grown
steadily to reach an annual average of about $31 million for FY76-78, compared
to an annual average of about $16 million for FY73-75. IDA has financed eight
projects in the agricultural sector with credits totalling $109 million, four
credits totalling 36.6 million for transportation, one of $2 million for an
industrial development bank project, two for a total of $23.5 million for
water supply, sewerage and sanitation, one of $10 million for a thermal power
project, and two for a total of $27 million for education. A $0.3 million
IFC investment in the Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan (IDBA) was
repaid to IFC following the nationalization of IDBA in 1975.
18.       Initially, the Bank Group's lending to Afghanistan was attended
by considerable difficulties. In addition to a limited knowledge of the
economy, there were a number of serious practical difficulties related to
relatively weak institutions and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. Thus,
the Bank Group's lending has tended to be directed at projects and institu-
tions where the possibilities for effective lending were best. The analytical
framework provided by the basic economic report and several sector studies
(agriculture, horticulture, livestock, industry), the development orientation
of the Government and a growing implementation capacity among Afghan institu-
tions, provide the basis for the Bank Group's future lending activities in
Afghanistan. While the emphasis will remain on the productive sectors, with
a search for improved productive efficiency (especially in the agricultural
sector), expanded foreign exchange earnings and domestic revenues, an increas-
ing knowledge of the economy makes possible a well focussed response to the
basic needs of the Afghan people.
1/   This section is essentially unchanged from the corresponding Parts of the
President's Reports for a Third Education Project (No. P-2491-AF dated
March 19, 1979), and a Third Highways Project (No. P 2564-AF dated
May 22, 1979).



19.       A number of further projects are under consideration.  A wheat pro-
duction project is currently being appraised, and a fourth education project
is being prepared and will be appraised in June 1979. Preparation of a third
irrigation project, a second industrial development bank project, a second
power project and a fourth agricultural credit project is also in progress.
Government has indicated that it intends to focus on regionalized rural
development, and has requested IDA assistance in devising an appropriate
organizational framework for it.
20.       In addition to its lending activity, IDA is executing several
UNDP-financed projects in Afghanistan which have been of great benefit in
expanding the country's limited administrative capability. To help ease
the managerial and administrative constraints, a long and difficult task,
IDA has placed emphasis on institution-building and training for Afghans.
IDA has helped establish several semi-autonomous agencies, (for example:
the Agricultural and Industrial Banks, and the Herat Livestock Development
Corporation), the aim being to provide the entities with the operational
autonomy needed for a viable venture. The establishment of project: imple-
mentation units in operating ministries is a further step in this direction.
For example, the Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Education,
established under the second education project, is to be commended for its
work in preparing the Third Education Project. Similar units have been
established for a Fruit and Vegetables Export Project which has recently
become effective.
21.       Project implementation, which has been variable in the past has
shown improvement and in recent months prompt action on the part oE the
Government: to remove project-specific bottlenecks suggests that this improve-
ment will continue. On the other hand, we should not misunderstand the far-
reaching nature of the changes which the Government is attempting to bring
about in Afghanistan, for example land reform, and the potential this offers
for difficulties of various kinds. Insecurity in the Herat area in recent
weeks has hindered implementation of the two livestock projects. 'Close
coordination between the authorities and Bank staff, facilitated by the Bank's
resident mission office, will be essential to maintain the past improvements
in the process of identifying, preparing and implementing projects. The
overall picture of disbursements is now a satisfactory one. Disbursements
under ear:Lier IDA credits were slow initially, but this situation has improved
considerably since 1976, and disbursements are now at a satisfactory rate of
about $20 million per annum. The IDA share of Afghanistan's total external
debt outstanding and disbursed were about 6.0 percent and 4.0 percent,
respectively, at March 20, 1978. For the future, the IDA share of total debt
outstandinag and disbursed are estimated to reach about 6 percent and 6 per-
cent, respectively in 1980/81. It is estimated that in 1980 debt service
payments due to IDA will represent about 1.1 percent of service payments due
on Afghanistan's external debt. Afghanistan's debt service ratio in 1977/78
was about 13 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
22.       Eleven million, or more, of its approximately 14-15 million people
live in rural Afghanistan. Of these, about 1.5 million are nomads, and over



- 8 -
six million (about 40 percent) live in absolute poverty with per capita
incomes of $85 or less. Agriculture, predominantly subsistence in character,
continues to be the central point in this setting. It accounts for 57 percent
of GNP (1975/76); 60 percent of export earnings, and 53 percent of the labor
force estimated at 4.7 million. Food self-sufficiency is an important goal,
but emphasis is also placed on cash crops. Wheat is dominant, occupying about
70 percent of total cereal crop land, and some 60 percent of the total cul-
tivated area. Other crops include maize, barley, rice, a wide variety of
fruits, and cash crops including cotton and sugar beets. Besides being an
important source of export earnings, livestock provide the primary source of
draft power and the major means of transport in rural areas.
23.       Over the past decade, the performance of the agricultural sector
has been disappointing, with production increase failing to match population
growth. Agriculture's share of GNP has dropped from 65 percent in 1968/69
to 57 percent in 1975/76 due largely to sluggish growth in the sector. Con-
straints to increasing agricultural production include the harsh continental
climate, unreliable rainfall, inadequate irrigation water storage coupled with
primitive irrigation systems and customary law on water rights, low literacy
level, a shortage of trained and experienced technicians, weak agricultural
extension and applied research programs, insufficient access to credit, and a
low level of rural infrastructural development, particularly access and feeder
roads. Quite substantial investments have been made in the agricultural
sector over the last 25 years, but the returns have been limited by the con-
straints summarized above.
24.       Topography and climate limit land use in  Afghanistan.  Arable land
is estimated at 8 million hectares; less than 15 percent of the total area.
However, only about 4 million hectares are cultivated each year due to lack
of water, and of this, only about 2.8 million hectares are irrigated.  Water
utilization is inefficient; by tradition, those at the head of irrigation
canals are entitled to a water share usually much in excess of their needs,
thus depriving farmers on lower reaches. Land distribution has been skewed
until 1978, when Decree No. 8 was promulgated (see para 9). Available data
suggest that about 40 percent of the cultivable land has been concentrated
among 2 percent of the landowners; while about 80 percent of the landowners
held small, often fragmented holdings of less than 4 hectares. Perhaps 30
to 40 percent of cultivated land has been farmed by landless sharecroppers
who probably constitute a high proportion of rural poor. Landlord/tenant
relationships were traditionally defined in the former's favor.
25.       The absence of an efficient extension service and effective applied
research programs is probably reducing the effectiveness, and hence the eco-
nomic returns of major investments in credit and irrigation. While a basic
extension service exists, its performance has been unsatisfactory. Contribut-
ing factors include cumbersome, highly centralized administrative procedures,
inadequate operating programs and training, weak research back-up, and poor
staff facilities (housing, transport, equipment) in rural areas.  A comprehen-
sive review of the present national research and extension program is provided
for under the Second Khanabad Irrigation Project (Credit 778-AF); a major
research and extension effort is planned as part of a wheat production project
currently being appraised; and preliminary discussions on a possible research
and extension project are scheduled for May/June 1979.



-9-
26.       Until recently informal credit markets have predominated, but the
recent growth of institutional credit facilities and use through the Agricul-
tural Development Bank of Afghanistan (AgBank) and commercial banks has been
encouraging. Recently, loans to cooperatives have been a major growth area
but AgBank is probably assisting no more than 8 percent of total farmers.
Security requirements still favor registered landowners, although some pro-
gress towards liberalization has been made recently. To compensate for any
reductions in traditional money lending activities resulting from Decree
No. 6 (see para 9), Government is establishing village 'farmer unions' which
will mobilize savings for lending to villagers, mainly for consumer credit
requirements. While lending through cooperatives will improve access to
credit, emphasis on AgBank's part should be sound appraisal and good loan
supervision with well-trained, competent staff rather than strict collateral.
Institutional credit discipline among farmers is essential if AgBank is to
survive as a viable financial institution and provide the required credit
services.
27.       While agricultural and rural development is constrained by a number
of complex interrelated factors, perhaps the overriding constraint in the past
has been thie previous Government's inability to establish a satisfactory
policy framework and provide effective supporting services including research,
extension, and veterinary. The operating framework including administration,
financial and staff management has been inadequate to meet the needs of dynamic
agricultural development programs. Administration has been over-centralized,
staff morale and motivation low, and underutilization common.
28.       The new Government's policies give priority to addressing some of
the basic problems of rural society including rural indebtedness, access to
institutional credit, support for cooperatives, and land ownership and tenure.
It has recently requested IDA assistance (referred to in para. 25 above) to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the national extension, research,
and cooperative services on a priority basis. The measures describied in paras
9-11, and t:he sense of priorities they embody, are of potential significance
to the rural economy. They indicate Government commitment to policies intended
to benefit the rural poor, the absence of which has been a feature in the
past. Rural development projects of the type proposed in this report fit in
well with these newly emerging priorities.
Organization and Services
29.       Provinces are administered by appointed Governors who chair Provin-
cial Rural Development Committees. These Committees include sub-governors,
and representatives of central Government ministries. The latter are respon-
sible administratively to the Governor and technically to their central
ministries in Kabul. Provincial administration is highly centralized.
30.       Coordination and management of agricultural activities is the
primary responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. Exceptions include:
major and minor irrigation works, for which the Ministry of Water and Power
(WAPM) and the Rural Development Department (RDD) respectively, are respon-
sible. The Ministry comprises headquarters departments representing the
different subsectors and corresponding departments in the provinces. Having



- 10 -
shed responsibility for supplying inputs to farmers to AgBank, the Afghan
Fertilizer Corporation (AFC) and the Afghan Seed Company (ASC), the Ministry
is in a position to concentrate on its major functions of policy-making and
planning, agricultural extension, research and veterinary services. In the
past, the Ministry's achievements in agricultural development have been
limited, due inter alia, to overcentralized administration, limited budgetary
allocations, and lack of well-trained and motivated staff.
31.        The Rural Development Department (RDD) was established in 1972 as
part of the Prime Minister's office to undertake rural social and economic
development. RDD was responsible to the High Council of Rural Development,
until its recent abolition. Coordination, planning and policy guidance for
the project will now be provided by the Presidents' Council for Coordination
of Rural Development (PCCRD) to be established under the proposed project (see
para 57). RDD has two forms of provincial organization - either a provincial
office headed by a Director, or in areas where Integrated Rural Development
(IRD) projects have been proposed, a project committee with a Director-General
as head. RDD currently receives technical assistance from UN, and the Indian
Government, and both financial and technical assistance from USAID. Although
operationally over-centralized, RDD has been quite effective in carrying out
rural development programs scattered over almost all of the 26 provinces. Its
1978 summer program included the construction of over 50 irrigation structures,
about 30 bridges, roads and other construction programs.
32.        Following its reorganization in 1969, the Agricultural Development
Bank of Afghanistan (AgBank) has, with UNDP/IDA/Government assistance, become
an effective, functional organization. Its loan portfolio has tripled in
four years to over Afs. 1.7 billion ($42.5 million) as of March 1978. AgBank
makes short, medium and long-term loans for an expanding range of agricultural
investments, including farm mechanization, on-farm development, production
inputs, livestock, agro-business and marketing. AgBank's supply department
imports tractors and water pumps and related farm machinery for sale on credit
to farmers. It also provides after sales service, which is currently being
reorganized and strengthened with UNDP/FAO technical assistance. Much of
IDA's financial support to the agricultural sector has been successfully
channelled through AgBank.
33.        The Afghan Fertilizer Company (AFC) has expanded rapidly since its
establishment in 1973, with substantial financial and technical USAID support.
It is responsible for procurement, storage and distribution of fertilizer.
More recently, its activities have included the purchase and distribution of
improved seeds produced by the Afghan Seed Company (ASC), and monopoly pur-
chase and sale of agro-chemicals, including veterinary medicines. Its satis-
factory organization includes a wide distribution system with about 600
retailers. It has a regional office in Ghazni.
34.        The responsibilities of the Environmental Health Department (EHD) in
the Ministry of Public Health include a village health worker scheme. It is
being assisted financially and technically by UNICEF and WHO. EHD has estab-
lished five zonal centers to strengthen its administrative and limited imple-
mentation capacity. Government recently transferred EHD's rural water supply
responsibilities to the Ministry of Public Works.



- 11 -
35.       The Afghan Cartographic and Cadastral Survey Institute (ACCSI) is
headquartered in Kabul; its Ghazni branch serves the Project area. UNDP is
currently lproviding technical assistance and equipment. Recently, modern
cadastral survey methods have been introduced to replace earlier methods,
which were slow and not entirely accurate. The Department of Cooperative
Development (DCD), established within the Ministry of Agriculture in 1973, is
responsible for promoting the establishment and registration of cooperatives,
auditing accounts, drafting regulations, and providing assistance and advice
on organization and management.  It has 12 provincial field offices including
one at Ghazni, and is currently implementing an intensified system of super-
vision of cooperative agents and activities. In the past DCD has b3een only
partially successful in promoting the establishment of viable cooperatives.
With major financial and technical support for cooperative development now
planned by Government, DCD is expected to emerge as a stronger, more effective
organization.
Previous IDA Assistance
36.       IDA's assistance to agriculture, with credits totalling $109 mil-
lion, has hitherto concentrated on (a) building up a system of institutional
credit for farm inputs; (b) rehabilitation of irrigation systems to increase
irrigation water supply; (c) increasing livestock and agricultural production
for domestic use and to capitalize on Afghanistan's substantial export oppor-
tunities in growing markets in neighboring countries; (d) upgrading and
strengthening of support services and rural infrastructure; and (e) developing
a network of project entities capable of undertaking the difficult task of
agricultural development.
37.       With the assistance of three IDA credits totalling $30 million,
together with ongoing financial assistance from CIDA and USAID, and technical
assistance from UNDP, AgBank has established itself firmly as a leading insti-
tution for agricultural development. The Herat Livestock Corporation was
established under the first of two Livestock Development Projects (IDA credits
totalling $24 million) to develop a meat export industry, increaseb livestock
production, and develop rural infrastructure in the Herat region. The proj-
ects, which include assistance to nomadic groups, were seen as offering the
opportunity to initiate "self-sustaining" rural development. Adm:inistrative
weaknesses which caused initial delays, are being dealt with. IDA is assist-
ing in the modernization of irrigation systems for some 30,000 hectares of
land through two credits totalling $37 million. In addition, the IDA-financed
Second Education Project is providing secondary agricultural schools for
pre-service training. In-service training for extension staff, and farmer
training is envisaged in the Fourth Education Project scheduled for appraisal
in June 1979, and a $18 million credit for a Fruit and Vegetable Export Proj-
ect to expand production of and export market access for raisins, vegetable
seeds, and vegetables and fresh fruits has recently become effective.
The Project Area
38.       Ghazni and Wardak were selected from a group of provinces includ-
ing Samangan, Bamiyan, Zabul, Uruzgan and Ghor. Selection criteria included
(a) access from Kabul which permits utilization of existing infrastructure,
(b) potential for agricultural and livestock production, and (c) a high



- 12 -
percent of population living in absolute poverty. As a result of recent
changes made by Government in Afghanistan's provincial structure, the Proj-
ect area now includes the Ghazni province and parts of the Kabul and Paktika
provinces (instead of Ghazni and Wardak); the actual area to be covered by the
project is unchanged.
39.       The total land area covered by the project is estimated at 4.3 mil-
lion hectares of which 227,000 hectares (5 percent) are cultivated, 464,000
hectares (11 percent) are designated pasture, 29,000 hectares (0.7 percent)
forest, and the balance of 3.5 million hectares (83 percent) mountains and
desert. While the Project area accounts for about 10 percent of national
population it includes only 6 percent of total land cultivated and 5 percent
of national irrigable land. The climate is semi-arid with hot dry summers
and long cold winters. About 92 percent of the precipitation occurs during
winter, mostly as snow. The average-sized holding is about 1.6 hectares
(compared to the national average of 3.5 hectares). Land ownership patterns
and landlord/tenant relationships are traditional. About 53 percent of
cultivated land in Ghazni is owner-operated and 37 percent share-cropped.
Most holdings are highly fragmented. Irrigation water is the most scarce
resource. Of the cultivated area, about 143,000 hectares are irrigated; 63
percent by river diversion, 16 percent from springs, 18 percent from 'karezes'
(an ancient system of tunnels which tap groundwater in mountain fans), and
about 3 percent from groundwater exploitation including wells. Frequent
flooding, largely from snow melts, results in water and labor wastage due to
destruction of diversion structures and canal intakes, and siltation.
40.        An asphalt road links Kabul to the Project area, and  unpaved roads
link the two provincial capitals with major district centers and important
villages. Apart from the main highway and a few important secondary roads,
most project area roads are closed for up to five months each year due to
floods, snow, and inadequate maintenance. As a result, many villages are
isolated for much of the year.
41.        The population of the Project area is about 1.4 million.  Of this,
the rural population totals about 1.2 million people, in 142,000 families and
some 3,000 villages. A large number of transhumants and nomads live in the
area during summer. Population density averages 33/km2 - 50 percent higher
than the national average of 22. Population growth is probably the same as
the national average, estimated at 2.2 percent. Ghazni's average per capita
income is lower than the national 1976/77 rural figure of $120.  About 800,000
people (60 percent of the population) probably live in or near a state of
absolute poverty with per capita incomes of $85 or less. The highest concen-
tration of these poor would be in the mountain regions and areas where irriga-
tion water is insufficient. At least 80 percent of households use the same,
usually heavily polluted water, for drinking, stock watering and irrigation.
Rural areas do not have electricity; kerosene is used for lighting. The most
common cooking and heating fuels are dried animal manure and brushwood. A
critical shortage of domestic fuelwood exists.
42.        Wheat is the predominant crop but production in the project area
does not meet the requirements.  Other cereals including maize and barley



- 13 -
are relatively unimportant.  Fruits, including apricots, almonds, apples and
grapes; and vegetables, primarily potatoes, are important. Livestock produc-
tion is also widespread; most village households own animals, and wbile
the potential for improvement is substantial, productivity is low.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.        The preparation of the Agricultural and Rural Development Project
began in October 1976 following a request by Government for IDA assistance
aimed directly at the rural poor. The preliminary findings of an FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program Mission were submitted in January 1977. Continuing proj-
ect preparation was reviewed by IDA missions in October 1977 and March 1978.
Project appraisal began in June 1978, and was completed in February 1979.
Negotiation,s were held in Washington from April 16 to May 1, 1979. The Afghan
delegation consisted of Dr. Usman, Ministry of Planning, and Dr. Hekmatullah,
Rural Development Department. The project's main features are summarized in
the Credit and Project Summary. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal
of an Agricultural and Rural Development Project"( No. 2297-AF) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The Project
44.        The proposed project would improve the economic and sociaL well-
being of the rural poor in the provinces of Ghazni, Kabul and Paktikla. It
would (a) raise rural incomes by increasing production in agriculture and
livestock; (b) contribute to social welfare by providing clean drinlking water
supplies; and (c) improve supporting infrastructure such as rural roads. The
project would enhance community participation by mobilizing villagers to
participate in project planning and implementation; directly involve line
ministries in the development of agricultural and veterinary services; and
strengthen concerned Government institutions, to enable them to undertake
subsequent development. Further the project is expected to provide a replic-
able design for rural development programs in other regions of Afghanistan.
It would include the following components:
-   agricultural investments:  minor irrigation rehabilitation,
agricultural extension and applied research, cooperatives,
range management and survey, credit, veterinary services,
and cadastral survey;
-   rural infrastructure:  minor road improvement, and village
water supplies;
-   project planning, coordination and evaluation, related
technical assistance, and feasibility studies.
Project activities in the Kabul province would commence in project year three,
following the establishment of effective implementation programs in Ghazni and
Paktika.



- 14 -
45.       The minor irrigation rehabilitation component would finance the
construction of small and medium scale diversion weirs, crossings and intakes.
Four adequately equipped units, including a small concrete-making facility and
a pile driving unit would be established to carry out the works (Schedule 4,
Para 1(i), Development Credit Agreement).   Selection of rehabilitation works
would be based on criteria (including a satisfactory cost benefit analysis)
agreed upon between Government and IDA. Government has agreed that the first
three appraisals would be sent to IDA for comment before actual work commenced
(Schedule 4, para 1(ii), Development Credit Agreement). Government agrees
with the principle that farmers should bear the investment costs of minor
irrigation works; however, a plan of operations for implementation does not
exist yet. Government has therefore agreed to submit for IDA comments by
March 31, 1981, a study on how minor irrigation rehabilitation costs could be
recovered in the Project area. If cost recovery is found feasible, recommenda-
tions satisfactory to both Government and IDA would be implemented starting
March 31, 1982 (Section 4.10, Development Credit Agreement). Meanwhile,
rehabilitation costs would be met by the Project. Operation and maintenance
costs would be met by beneficiaries (Section 4.11, Development Credit Agreement).
At full development, these rehabilitation works would improve the reliability
of irrigation water supply, reduce water and crop yield losses resulting from
flood damage, and cut canal maintenance time and costs on an estimated 17,000
hectares.
46.       The agricultural extension service in the project area would be
reorganized, intensified and strengthened in order to rapidly extend existing
and new technology to as large a number of farmers as possible. The number
of extension agents would be increased, their training upgraded, and modest
housing and transport provided. Extension workers would be provided with
structured work programs to be prepared with expert assistance (see para 54).
These would be based on a suitably adapted "training and visit" strategy
successfully proven in other developing countries. The extension effort
would be complemented by an applied agricultural research station on 20
hectares of Government land in Ghazni, to develop improved technology adapted
to the project area (Schedule 4, para 3, Development Credit Agreement). At
least some 150 multi-purpose service cooperatives, including nomads coopera-
tives, would be established. Credit for cooperatives would be provided
through AgBank. Cooperative agents would be trained with expert assistance
(see para 54). Supervision of cooperatives and cooperative agents would be
on a training and visit system similar to that outlined for agricultural
extension (Schedule 4, para 4, Development Credit Agreement).
47.       An experimental range improvement center (ERIC) would be established
on 20 hectares of Government land in Ghazni by March 31, 1980 as part of the
Forestry and Range Management Department (Schedule 4, para 5, Development
Credit Agreement). It would be designed to increase knowledge of the project
area rangelands; identify productive species suitable for propagation in the
area; devise appropriate management systems aimed at increasing range produc-
tivity, improving the living standards of rangeland users and reducing soil
erosion; train and educate staff on the role of the rangeland pastoral system;
and prepare a pilot range management-rural development project. Another major
objective would be the establishment of service centers for nomads on a pilot
basis; an implementation program for these would be prepared by October 31,
1981 (Section 4.12, Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
48.       Through the  Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan (Agbank)
the project would improve access to and the use of agricultural credit among
farmers and cooperatives and non-farm rural enterprises, for short-term pro-
ductive inputs, medium and long-term on-farm development, farm machinery,
water pumps and livestock (Schedule 4, para 6(i), Development Credit Agree-
ment).  Agbank's existing branch in Ghazni would be upgraded, and a new
branch and about five new sub-branches opened in main project area centers.
Similarly, the activities of Agbank's supply department in Ghazni would be
expanded to ensure satisfactory repair and spare parts services to farmers
(Schedule 4, paras 6(iv) and (v), Development Credit Agreement). Innovations
under this component would include: (a) the development of new procedures
for Agbank to accelerate loan application and processing; (b) the provision
of training courses by AgBank's Supply Department during winter months for
private village repair workshop owners; (c) credit to cooperatives for offices
and storage facilities; and (d) the introduction of credit for non-farm rural
entrepreneurs. Government has agreed to submit for IDA comments, proposals
for loans under (c) and (d) by October 31, 1979 (Schedule 4, paras 6(ii), and
(vii), Development Credit Agreement).
49.       Efficient veterinary services would be extended to farmers, by
establishing a village veterinary service and strengthening mobile vaccination
teams. About 5 sub-clinics in larger district farm service -centers would
support a fully equipped government veterinary clinic being built in Ghazni
town (Schedule 4, para 7(i), Development Credit Agreement). Villages would
be reached through a "barefoot veterinarian" approach. Disease control would
reduce animal mortality, increase annual offtake and help improve animal pro-
duction. Extension workers would advise farmers on nutrition and husbandry;
and Village Veterinary Workers would educate them in the advantages of pre-
ventive animal health control. The full cost of drugs and veterinary medicines
would be paid by livestock owners (Section 4.09(a), Development Credit Agree-
ment).  Govlernment agrees with the principle of cost recovery for vaccines,
which are currently provided free, but to allow time to devise an appropriate
system of vaccine charges, Government has agreed to complete a study of this
issue by March 31, 1980 for IDA comments, and implement recommendations
mutually agreeable to Government and IDA by March 31, 1981 (Section 4.09(b),
Development Credit Agreement).
50.       The project would finance modern equipment and  materials to permit
reliable cadastral survey, and registration of titles on irrigated project
area land. Government has agreed that ACCSI would be required to complete the
cadastral survey in the project area by June 30, 1983 (Schedule 4, para 8,
Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Two road construction teams would be established to upgraide about
400 kilometers of minor roads to reasonable all-weather standards. Selection
of roads would be based on criteria (including a satisfactory cost benefit
analysis) agreed upon between Government and IDA; and Government has agreed
that the first three appraisals would be sent for IDA comment before commence-
ment of the work (Schedule 4, para 9(i), Development Credit Agreement).
Emphasis would be placed on the need to:  (a) reinforce roads providing the
shortest connections between population and administrative centers, the main



- 16 -
Kabul-Kandahar road, and provincial capitals; (b) improve access to cultivated
areas to ensure that agricultural services can be extended to farmers; and (c)
bring villages and remote poorer areas out of isolation.
52.       The village water supplies program would supplement ongoing project
area programs with an adequately equipped village water supply unit to under-
take the survey, design, and installation of water supply systems for about
100 villages. Community participation and education, to make people aware of
the importance of clean drinking water, would be an essential feature. Insti-
tutions responsible for supervision and maintenance of water supply systems
would be established at the village level. Villagers would be responsible for
operation and maintenance costs (Section 4.11, Development Credit Agreement).
Sites and systems would be selected on the basis of criteria agreed upon
between Government and IDA, and the first three appraisals including designs
would be sent for IDA comment before the work started (Schedule 4, para 10,
Development Credit Agreement).
53.       A Rural Development Department Regional Planning and Implementation
Unit (RDD-RPIU) would be established in Ghazni (Schedule 4, para 11(i), Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).  It would inter-alia be responsible for project
planning, coordination and evaluation (see paras. 58, 61 below). An important
function would be to test new design and construction techniques, particularly
for housing, adapted to local conditions and suitable for use by local artisans
using local materials. Special features would include the establishment of a
public relations unit to stimulate public interest and participation in the
development process in general and in the project in particular; and a monitor-
ing and evaluation unit.
54.       About 27 manyears of foreign expert services, (at an average cost of
$8000 per manmonth) for technical assistance with special emphasis on train-
ing, and about 17 manyears of overseas fellowships for training would be
provided. The bulk of the experts would be recruited through an experienced
consulting firm, and would include a training coordinator.   Specializations
would include: a project leader, accounting-administration, engineering, farm
management-extension, range management, livestock production, cooperatives,
automotive engineering, monitoring and evaluation, and training. Overseas
training would focus on 3-4 month fellowships, in developing countries, where
the technology and conditions would be relevant.
55.       Special attention would be paid to the Bande Seraj dam, situated
about 40 km upstream of Ghazni town, to improve water storage management
and effectively increase the irrigated area from 2000 hectares to the dam's
3000 hectare capacity. Government has agreed to provide the policies and
procedures for operation of the dam for IDA comments, by January 31, 1980
(Schedule 4, para 1(i), Development Credit Agreement). Feasibility studies
for expanding the storage capacity of the Bande Seraj dam, for a new moderate
sized irrigation storage dam near it, and for a second rural development
project in the country would be prepared with expert assistance. Experts for
the first two studies would be hired by June 30, 1980, and for the third, by
November 30, 1980 (Sections 4.02 (b) and (c), Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Project Implementation
56.       The Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for the implementa-
tion, through its relevant provincial departments, of agricultural extension,
research, veterinary, range management and survey, and cooperatives components.
The Rural Development Department (RDD) would execute the minor irrigation
works, the minor road improvement program and the village water supplies com-
ponent. Agbank would handle all credit activities, and the Ministry of Water
and Power, iin consultation with RDD-RPIU, would be responsible for tlhe dam
feasibility studies. The ACCSI would implement the cadastral survey.
57.       The project would follow the existing staff and organizational
structure to the fullest extent possible. In addition, modifications would
be introduced as necessary to strengthen administrative capabilities, partic-
ularly at the provincial level, and to provide the mechanisms required for
coordination. One such would be the establishment in Kabul of the Presidents'
Council for Coordination of Rural Development (PCCRD), consisting of respec-
tive Governors, representatives of Government departments and agencies, of
the Ministry of Planning, under the chairmanship of the President of RDD.
The PCCRD would oversee and coordinate regional agricultural and rural devel-
opment activities, provide guidance to the relevant provincial organizations,
and approve annual work programs and budgets before submission to Cabinet.
Another innovation would be the upgrading of provincial administrations -
Provincial Rural Development Committees - into formally constituted Provin-
cial Rural Development Councils (PRDCs) with executive authority under the
chairmanship of the President of RDD-RPIU, and responsible to the PCCRD. The
establishment of the PCCRD, and the PRDC at Ghazni are conditions of credit
effectiveness (Sections 7.01(e) and (g), Development Credit Agreement).
PRDCs would be linked to districts through District Development Comrmittees,
which in turn would be directly linked to villages through Village Develop-
ment Councils. Provincial staff of central ministries would be technically
responsible to their Ministries in Kabul, and administratively responsible to
the PRDCs, thus the line functions of the central ministries would remain
unchanged.
58.       A third innovation would be the establishment within RDD of a
Regional PLanning and Implementation Unit (RDD-RPIU) consisting of a President,
two Vice-Presidents, three General Directors, and relevant technical staff,
with both staff and line functions. RDD-RPIU's establishment (with adequate
land for its offices and depot), and the appointment of its key staff, are
conditions of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(c) and (d), Development
Credit Agreement) . The RDD-RPIU would provide the crucial liaison and coor-
dination between the provincial departments of central ministries and between
the PRDCs. Its staff functions would include planning, administrative and
management support to the PRDCs. Its line functions would inter alia, include
responsibility for the timely completion of project civil works; all procure-
ment; maintenance of all project buildings, vehicles and equipment; maintenance
of adequate stores, and establishment of satisfactory accounting procedures.
The RDD-RPIU would be authorized to enter into civil works contracts with
private contractors and to introduce necessary innovations in administrative
and procurement procedures. The related technical assistance to be provided
is detailed in para 54 above.



- 18 -
59.       In order to expedite project preparation, an advance of $150,000 was
made in June 1978 from the Project Preparation Facility, for the recruitment
of key experts to coordinate the preparatory work and assist in organizing
the administrative framework, and for initial offices, housing, vehicles and
equipment. Key local staff have already been appointed, and an expatriate
project leader is expected to be deployed shortly.
Project Accounts, Monitoring and Evaluation
60.       For administrative ease, funds to cover all investment costs,
vehicle operating costs, and the portion of staff salaries being financed
externally, would be administered by the President of RDD-RPIU through a
Project Account that has been established, with provisions for quarterly
replenishments (Section 5.01(a), Development Credit Agreement). RDD-RPIU
would maintain accounts for project funds in accordance with appropriate
accounting practices (Section 5.01(b), Development Credit Agreement). These
would be audited annually by independent auditors and submitted for IDA
comment within five months of the close of each financial year (Section
5.02, Development Credit Agreement).
61.       A monitoring and evaluation unit (MEU) to be set up within the RDD-
RPIU (Schedule 4, para ll(ii)(a), Development Credit Agreement), would, with
expert assistance, monitor progress in implementing project components, assist
in the solution of implementation problems, and evaluate project impact on
agricultural productivity, and on the standard of living and well-being of the
rural population. The MEU, estimated to cost about $150,000, would report
quarterly to the Government and IDA (Section 4.06, Development Credit Agree-
ment).   As the project has important implications for future rural develop-
ment programs in Afghanistan, and includes several innovative organization
and management features, the Government and IDA would jointly review progress
made and lessons learned, by not later than three years from credit signature
and make any modifications necessary in the project design and composition
(Section 4.07, Development Credit Agreement). A project completion report,
analyzing project achievements in relation to targets and objectives, would be
submitted to IDA within six months of project completion (Section 4.04(c),
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
62.       The total project cost, net of import duties and taxes (which are
not levied on IDA-financed projects in Afghanistan), is estimated at $39.0
million, with a foreign exchange component of $17.5 million (45 percent).
Details are provided in the Credit and Project Summary. The proposed IDA
credit, which would finance 42 percent of total costs, would be supplemented
with $1.0 million from UNDP for technical assistance (with IBRD as the Execut-
ing Agency), and $13.0 million from IFAD. Foreign exchange costs would be met
by IDA ($9.3 million), IFAD ($7.4 million), and UNDP ($0.8 million). IDA,
IFAD and UNDP would also finance $7.2 million, $5.6 million, and $0.2 million
respectively, of local costs. IDA financing for a portion of the local costs
is justified for the reasons given in para 13. The appointment of IDA as
Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD loan and grant, the effective-
ness of the IFAD Loan Agreement, and the execution of a UNDP Project Document



- 19 -
are conditions of credit effectiveness (Sections 7.01(a) and (f), Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The Government is the borrower and bear the foreign
exchange risk. The remaining local costs would be financed as follows: Gov-
ernment, $5.8 million; AgBank, $1.1 million, and beneficiaries, $1.6 million.
63.        Government would onlend $4.5 million to AgBank for 15 years includ-
ing 5 years of grace at 4.5 percent interest per annum, representing about 66
percent of the cost of the credit component ($6.7 million). The terms of the
Government's loan to AgBank, which are the same as for the Third Agricultural
Credit Project, (Cr 721-AF) would be incorporated in a subsidiary loan agree-
ment acceptable to IDA, signature of which would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 7.01(b), Development Credit Agreement). Interest rates
for sub-borrowers would not be less than 8 percent per annum on medium and
long-term loans, and 10 percent on short-term loans, with a 1 percent per
annum rebate for borrowing cooperatives; the same as for the ongoing Agricul-
tural Credit Project (721-AF). Inflation in 1976-78 averaged about 6-8
percent, and is unlikely to average more than 8 percent per annum from 1979
through 1981.
Procurement and Disbursements
64.        Contracts of $100,000 or more for equipment, vehicles and materials
financed through the credit, would be awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines.
Domestic preferences of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty (whichever
is lower) would be granted. Contracts of less than $100,000 for equipment,
vehicles and materials purchased would be awarded after inviting quotations
from at least three suppliers. The aggregate of these would not exceed $2.0
million. Local procurement procedures would be amended as follows: the
President of. RDD-RPIU would be authorized to approve contracts of up to Afs
500,000 ($12,500) without any further approval, and to make purchases of up
to Afs 20,000 ($500) without the use of a purchasing committee (Schedule 4,
para ll(iii), Development Credit Agreement); local bids would be sealed and
in writing; and contracts could not be readvertised after the completion of
satisfactory bid evaluations. Most of the civil works would involve small,
geographically scattered structures of varied design; not suitable for pro-
curement under ICB. Therefore, as appropriate, these civil works would be
completed by a combination of local competitive bidding, construction units
of RDD-RPIU through force account, and village self-help.
65.       Disbursements against the IDA credit and the IFAD loan, would be
made pro-rata (with minor exceptions) as follows: (a) equipment, vehicles and
materials: 100 percent of foreign expenditures on direct imports, 100 percent
of ex-factory local costs, and 85 percent of locally purchased imports; (b)
civil works, 100 percent; (c) AgBank subloans for wells, pumps, cooperative
storage, village workshops, and on-farm development, 80 percent of disburse-
ments; (d) AgBank subloans for fertilizer and seeds, 70 percent of disburse-
ments in year one, and of annual incremental disbursements thereafter; (e)
feasibility studies, 100 percent (IDA only); (f) technical assistance, 58
percent; (g) salaries of incremental local staff hired after March 21, 1979,
vehicle ope!ration and maintenance costs, and RDD-RPIU operation and main-
tenance costs (excluding vehicles), 60 percent. UNDP funds and the IFAD grant



- 20 -
would be disbursed against 28 percent and 14 percent of the technical assis-
tance respectively. Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30,
1984; the closing date would be December 31, 1984. The Credit and Project
Summary contains the estimated annual disbursement schedule.
Benefits and Risks
66.        The central aim of the project is to raise farm incomes and living
standards. At full development, per capita incomes on farms are expected to
increase by about 70 percent. The project would benefit some 62,000 poor farm
families, including about 3,000-4,000 nomad and transhumant families. At
least a further 100,000 people would benefit indirectly from the infrastruc-
ture improvements. About 54 percent of quantifiable benefits would accrue to
the target group. During its investment period, the project would generate a
total of nearly 700 permanent jobs, and 200 manyears of temporary part-time
employment. Moreover, over its life, the project would increase the demand
for on-farm labor, thereby providing some 500,000 mandays of employment oppor-
tunities annually for unskilled lower income families. Increased farmer
incomes, together with the introduction of credit and training for some
non-farm rural activities, would encourage further investment by small entre-
preneurs in activities such as the supply of inputs and services to farmers,
and goods and services to the local population. Thus, unskilled semi-urban
and rural landless persons would benefit from opportunities to acquire skills
and find employment in a variety of marketing, commercial and transport
services. Clean drinking water supplies would improve the health of farm
families, and efficient veterinary services would improve the health of their
livestock. In addition, the project would contribute to general ecological
stability in the area, protect water sheds, check soil erosion, and thus have
a beneficial environmental impact. The project would make an important con-
tribution by providing a replicable framework for future rural development
programs in Afghanistan.
67.       Through an integrated technological package, the project would
increase the productivity and production of crops and livestock. At full
development, annual incremental wheat production would be 17,400 tons, potato
production 41,200 tons, rice 1,400 tons, apples, 3,200 tons, meat 770 tons,
milk 6,220 tons, fodder crops 5,000 tons, straw 25,700 tons, fuelwood 8,100
tons. Agricultural, physical infrastructure, and other investments pertaining
to crop production have been grouped together for purposes of computing the
economic rate of return (ERR). The ERR of these investments, which account
for 85 percent of total costs, is estimated at 17 percent. The ERR of vete-
rinary and range management components, accounting for an additional 8 percent
of total costs, is estimated at 24 percent. Investments in village water
supplies are qualitatively significant, but the benefits unquantifiable. The
costs of the feasibility studies have been excluded. The average ERR of
investments accounting for 93 percent of costs is estimated at 18 percent.
68.       The main project risk lies in the limited experience and capability
of the Government's administrative machinery. The project would require close
cooperation between participating Government ministries, departments, and
agencies; where in the past cooperation has been limited. Substantial risks
are associated with the implementation of Government's land reform and coop-
erative programs. However, the implementation of the Project, with its
integrated package of critical support services would effectively limit these



- 21 -
risks in the Project area. Unless effective supporting services are provided
promptly, agricultural production and rural incomes may suffer a set'back.
Community participation is an integral part of the project; this might prove
difficult, particularly initially. The proposed organizational and management
structure, aimed at strengthening institutional capability to help ensure
efficient implementation, and the expert assistance and training to be pro-
vided should alleviate these risks. The key to alleviating poverty in rural
Afghanistan lies in devising and successfully implementing integrated rural
development programs; therefore, the risks being taken under the proposed
project are justified.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Afghanistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and AgBank, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
71.       Special conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit are as follows
(Section 7.01, Development Credit Agreement):
(a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and AgBank,
and the UNDP Project Document have been executed;
(b)  the Loan Agreement between IFAD and the Government has become
effective, and IFAD has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Fund Grant; and
(c) the PCCRD, the PRDC at Ghazni, and RDD-RPIU have been established,
and the President, two Vice-Presidents, and three Director Generals
of RDD-RPIU have been appointed.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles oiE Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed devel-
opment credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 22, 1979
Washington, D.C.



Annex 1
- 22-                                        Paoe 1 of 5 Paqes
TABLE 3A
AFGHAGISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UREBENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND ARIA (TBHUSAMD SQ. Of.)                APOAISTAN                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           635.0                                                 SAMt        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    144.5                               HMST RECENIT    GEOGRAPIC   INCOKE        INCOME
1960 Lk    1970 /b ESTTS tb         REGIONI  c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 90.0       110.0    190.0           167.4      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUAPTION PER CAPITA
(XILORAS OI COAL IEQUIVALENT)      15.0       33.0      43.0            65.7       88.9       251.7
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MED-TEAR
(HILLIONS)                        9.9 IL     12.3 /t  14-15 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCEINT OF TOTAL) 8.0       10.7      14.3           12.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      16.0        19.0      23.0           85.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    71.0        87.0      99.0          322.6      254.1        95.0
POPUIATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.9        43.2     45.5            44.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 TRS.                        54.8       54.2      51.3            52.9       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.3         2.6      3.2             2.9        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2 /       2.2 ]A    2.2            2.2        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             5.2         5.2       7.2 4b 4.2                4.0         8.8
CRtUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0       48.7      51.4           45.1       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    34.1        27.6      30.7            17.3      19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.4       3.4             3.2       2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLAJINIIG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..      15.3
USERS (PERCEIT OF MARRIED  MEN)   ..           ..       1.0            13.7      14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           113.5       100.0    106.7            95.6       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUI2B NTS)                   86.0        78.0      83.0            91.1      92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRJMS PER DAT)         65.2        58.0      61.5           49.6       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..        11.0       8.5           12.6       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..         ..       24.1/n          ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LiFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   32.8        37.8      35.0           43.1       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAD)                             ..         ..    269.4             99.5      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TMTAL                              ..         3.0       9.0            30.0      26.4        31.1
URBAN                              ..        18.0     40.0            66.1       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..         1.0       5.0            17.2      14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA SISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        21.0      21.0            15.7      16.1        37.5
URBAN                              *-        69.0      63.0           66.9       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              *-        16.0      15.0            2.5        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        22450.0 [1  14680.0  12930.0          8830.8    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    23210.0 ft  21080.0  11660.0         8479.3    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          5950.0 LI  5240.0   5210.0           1624.5    1157.6        786.5
URBN                               ..      1090.0       ..              ..      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              *-      96 50.0       *-              *-    1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         9.6       ..              ..        19.5       19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAI                              ..          ..       ..              ..         5.2
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..              ..        4.8
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER BOOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             .,        25.9       28.3
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        8.7        10.3



- 23 -                                          Annex 1
Paoe 2 of 5 oages
TAELa 3A
APGHIANISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REZERtNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
AJGHAJllSTAN 
- MOST RECZNT ESTIMATE)
SA5l        SAIIZ    NEXT HIGHER
M1ST StCEIT     GROGRAPRIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b RTIATE  Lk        REGION Lc   GROUP /d   GMCP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTD E 0LUXENT RATIOS
PRIMl;AR     TOTAL                  9.0/I       21.01k    29.0 k/          59.1        62.9        75.8
PAULE                  2.0 n       6.0n       5.0 kl          38.4       45.9         67.9
SECONUART:   TOTAL                  1.011k       6.0 Ik    8 aC ki         19.9        14.4        17.7
EALE                   0. 3 k      1.0Ik    1.0 kk             9.9        8.8         12.4
VOCATIONAL (PERCUIT O  SICOIDA1Y) 11.0 h        4.2 /      q9 t ki         1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                         41.0 |k   37.0 k/          38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONRY                              .          24.0       18.o tk/        23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCEIT)         8.0         10.0       11.0 i/         35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSSEER CAIS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.5          3.0       3.0 /i           2.2         3.1          7.2
RDIO RECEIVIIRS PER TWOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          6.0       6.0             14.9        31.1         71.1
TV  ECEIVERS PEI THOUSANID
P0PULATION                                                                              2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAnD POPULATXIO                   5.0          6.0       27.0             6.4         6.0         16.3
CtINIA ANIUAL ATTUNDANCE PZR CAPITA                1.1                                    1.4          1.6
iDlPLOTI4ERT
TOTAL LAUOR lORtCl (TWUSAIDS)                             4700.0 L.
PEKALE (PERfl:T)                   16.9         17.9       18.3            21.3        24.2         2a.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCIMT.                                     52.9             62.8        60.7         54.1
IRNDSTRY (PCm) tt/                                        19.7
PAItTICIPATION RATE (PENCRT)
TOTAL*                                36.0        35.1       34.2            35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  59.1        56.4       54.7             52.4       53.3         50.3
FEIALE                                12.4        12.8       12.8             15.6       19.6         20.9
ECONMIC DEPEIIDENCY RATIO                                       1.5              1.3        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PEiCINT O PRIVATE INCOME
RECEtVED RY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                            18.6        20.3         19.5
-IGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                           42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWST 20 PERCEKT OP HOUSPROLDS                                              7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                            19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET (.ltOUPS
ESTDMATED ABSOLUTE POVERtTY INCOME
LEVeL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBANI                                                    86.0             80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                                     84.0             67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTDItATEDL RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PE11 CAPITA)
Wj..                                                       53.0                       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                                      53.0            39.8        42.0         87.3
STBDIATED POP1JLATION BELOW POVERTY
ItCOYE LEVEL (PERCENT)
UBAN                                                       18.0             50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                                     36.0              44.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    Th- adjusted group averages for each indicator are pop.lation-weight.d geometric _ans, excluding the extrame
values of the indicator and the vmot populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries smong the
indicators depends on availabtlity of data and is not unifors.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwven 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Rcent ttt    b.tween 1973 and 1978.
c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or lee   per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (281-550 per Capita,
1976);  If  Population (and also GNP per capita) date relate to fiscal year beginning March 21; L   Dif-
forence between UN rate of natural increase and World Ba ooulAtim growth rate due to different epou-
lation estimate; Ih 1970-76; /i Rased on the latest appraisal eission estinate. /1 1962;
It Public education only; /1 aged 8 years and over. /v. Industry including Handicrafts. !./1972
September, 1978



- 24 -                                                                       Annex I
DEFTNI_TIONS OF POCIAI.  5iCjATI)O                                                        P'ao I   off  5   pages
hiss: Tb.  djused goup  veraes  fr eah In,1ir-0', a.r, p.pu1.tiuin-weegit,d peri     ruc    -:uding the extrem   -a1ues of the indicator and the moat
po pulatd  ontry I   -ah  -r'p.  C,i-,vea   of -ontir  an   the  -nIst.aoc.s:i.oaolability of data snd Is not unfos. Du  to lack of data.
,roup asae  for Capita. Surplus Uil Epr'cand lsd1,0tors otaces  to wat.r and  --aets disposal, housing.  Income distribution and poverty ace
simple popul4tion-waighL.d geometrJc means without the exclusion of extreme values.
L.AND AREA (thousand sq. k.)                                                                  Popul ti,, Ear ho.pital bad - total. urban. and rural - Population (totl.1
TYotal - Total surface area comprising land aea and inland .ater..                             urban.  and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultara1 area used temporarily                      available In public and privete general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                        habilitation centers.   Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                                 at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals. however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US) - GNP par capita estimates at current market price.,                        ca1 centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by saine conversion method as World Bank Atls.  (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, novae. sidwifa. etc.) which offer int-patient accoodation end
1960. 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                  provide a limited range of medical facilities,
Admlssions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CON4SUMPTIONI PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comercia1 energy                        from h.apitois divided by the somber of beds.
(coal aed lignite, petroleum. natrals gas and hydro- ..nclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogrsme of coal equivalent per capita.                        HOUSiNG
Average size of household (nersone per household) - total, urban, and rural1-
POPUiLATION ANDl VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A house.hold consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total pgpulation. mid-year (millions)_ - As of July 1; if not  -viliable.                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may nor be included in
averag  of .  two end-year estimat.a; 1960, 1975,. ad 1977 data,                            the hbo...hold for stati.ticsl purposes.  Statistical definitions of hue
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popuiu-                          hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban ereas may effect comparability                       Average number of persona per room - tot.l. urban.  and rural - Average n.
of data among countriea.                                                                    her of persons per room in all, urban, end rural occupied con ventional
Population density                                                                            dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude mon-permanent structures and
Per  sq. ka. - Mid-year population per square kilom.. er (100 hectare sI                     un-co-pied Parts.
of total area.                                                                            Access to_electricity (nercent of dwellings) - total, urban. and coral -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural  land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quartera as Percentage
only.                                                                                       of total, urban, and rural dwellings re-pectivelp.
Popul&tion agea sructure (perccnt) - Children (i-li yeare), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                  EDUCATION
year Population.                                                                         Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population arow h rate (percent) -_total, and urban - Compound annual                       Primary school - total, and female - Total and famale enrollment of all1 age,
gro.th rates of total and urban mid-year populstions for 1950-hi,                           at the primary level as percentages of respective1ir primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                       populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but udjueted for
Crude birth rats (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                          different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
mid-year populationi ten-yea  arithmetic snrsseding in 1960 and                             cation enrolleent may exceed 100 percet since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 far moast recent estimate,                        above the offi,iel school age.
Crude death rate (pec thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                        Secondary achcoi_ -_total, and female - Computed as above; necood.ry educa-
year population; tan-year arithmnetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      Eon requires at leaat four yearn of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 197) for most recent estimate.                              vides general voctional, or teacher training instructions for pupilsI
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will hear                       usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences pr.oent age-                           ..cludod.
specific fertility rates;  ausully five-year averages ending in 1960,                     Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational  inatitutiona in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                             clode technical,  industrial, or other progras which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                            or So departments of secondary ins,titutions.
acceptors of birth-control devicea under  us-pices of national family                    Pupil-teacher_ratio - nrivarv. and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                           primary end se ondary levele divided by numbers of teachers in the corr.-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                            sponding levels.
married woman of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                   Adult literacy rats (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                             a percenta.ge of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
r0011 AND NUTRITION                                                                        CONSUMP0TION
Index of food pr'oduction per capita (1970-100)~ - Index number of per                     Pas ... er cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food comm,odities.                                        seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulance., hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirsments) - Computed from                     vehicles.
nenrSy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                   Rsdio receivers (per thoueand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                   broadcasts  to general public per thousand of population; sxcludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  NtIe  supplies exclude animal feed, seede,                receivers in countries and in years when registrration of radio sets wee in
quantities used in food processing , and losses In distribution.  Re-                     effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                    abolished  licenaing.
mel activity and health considering enviroomental temperature, body                      TV roeIvers  (per thousand population) - TV receive.. for broadcast to general
weights, age end sex distributions of population. and allowing III per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers In coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                          tries and In years whon registration of TV sets ues in effect.
Per capit. supply of proteinp gram  pr  ay    Protein content of per                        esapr_ir Laton_(per  h~ou-und_populat_ion) - ihowa the average circula-
capits net supply of fodpr dY,   Ntie  supply of food is defined asLion of "doily general Intercst newspaper",  defined s    periodical p.bli-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide focar    -ton devoted primarily to recording general news,   It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 6i grams of  .toti proroin per day and 20 grams                      ho "daiiy" If it uyyoarc at leas.t four times a week.
of animal and pulse prote.in, of which 10 Ur... should he animol protnir-                Ciea  oua    ttednc                 cyt  per year - Based on the number of ticknts
These standard,, are lowe, than those of 75 irons of total protein and                      sold during the year.  inclo.ding adwiosione to drive-in cinesa. and mobile
23 gtrass of animal proteir  as ana-rago  for tire ..eld, propose.d by                      uis
PAO in the Third World P.,,,d Survey.
Percapta  rotin so lyroni snimol and pulac - i'rotrin supply oi food                      EMfiOXminT
derived  crm animals and yulaea In grams p-r day.                                        Total labor forc- AkhLo_uuands   - E-on-slcly active persons, including aroed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rete  pethousa~nd) - Annu.i deoLhs per thous-                       force  sod unem.ployed hut .xcluding houseives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-i yearn. to childr-  in this age group.                                  tiono in -arioue countries ore nout comporable.
eml(eret)  - Female lebor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                      Agriculture (percent) - iab.r force In f.aring, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life  -eupCLocY at birth_(era    Average number of yearu of life                              an percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averges ending in i960.  1970,                     Industr  (pret   - Lahor force in mining, construction, xanufactrurlg and
and 1975.                                                                                   eloctricity,..wter snd gas as percentage of tot.l labor force.
Infant  -ot.lity rats (par thousan.d) - Annual deathu of irfontu under                     ircnsonae(pcn)    ttl,mle, and female - Tota.1  nale, and
one year of age Per thousand live birhts.                                                   Female lubor force on percentages of their respective populutions.
A.cc.ss to eafe water (percent of population) -_to.tal,rb,ac__and rural                        I hea-  .r. TL.11'  adjusted particip.tise rstes reflecting  ge-sec
Number of people (total. urbsn.  and rural) with reasonable access to                         trr-r,r,-  Cr IIo.  -oiirir. d ionc tine trend.
safe water supply (includes trested surface waters or untrcated but                      Fcon...ic_deyend.nn_stloJ   - Rutio of population .mder 15 end 65 and over to
uncontaminated water auch a. thet from protected boreholes, springs,                        the labot force in age group of 15-hi years.
and sanitary -ella) ao percentages of their resPective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost iocsted not more                        INCOMI) DISTRIBUOTION
than 200 aeters from a house may he considered as betng within rma-                      Perce- g   fpiseicm   (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable accees of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                       percent, richest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent. and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the house.hold do nor have to                        of households.
apend a dip-op-rtionata part of the day In fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                            POVFRTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (Percent of population) - total, urban. and                     fstimated absolute poverty income level (US$ par  -apita) - uchan and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban. end rural) served hy exoreta                           Absolute poverty income level is that income, level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Encreta                           nutritionally adequate dIet plus essential non-food requireaments is not
disposal may Include the collection and disposal, with or without                            affordable.
treatment, of humn secreta and waste-wter by water-borne systems                         Estimated relative poverty income level (U1S$ per, capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                         Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
P.pul.tion par physician - Population divided by numbec of practicing                          pec capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                          Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban sod rural-
Population per nrig<ro   - Population dIvided by number of                                     Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute Poor" or
pr-trictng maleand female grodusts nurses. prectica1 nurses, and                             "relative poor" whichever is greater.
ass istant nuraoa.
Economicyand iScial Data Division
Economi Inalysis and Projections Departsent



- 25 -                                           Annex 1
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWlH-' (. constant Prices)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76
(At 1975/76 constant prices)                                                   1965/66-      1968/69        1976/         1977/
US$ Mn.        %          1968/69       1975/76        1977          1978
GNP at Market Prices       I/                        1976         100.0           ..              3
Gross Domestic Investw nt -                            .                                          -
Gross National Saving-
Current Account  -alance                               54              3           .              1          -70.0        +126.0
Export of Goods2/                                     236            12           ..             19           24.8           6.1
Imports of Goods                                      278            14           ..             14           -1            21.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197517w2
Value Added                   Labor Force                   V.A. per Worker
US$ Mln.       %           Thousands   % of total              EL             z
Agriculture                                  977.65      55.4           2492.8         52.9                392.2         104.7
Handicrafts and Industry                    241.10       13.7            929.0         19.7                259.5         69.3
Services                                    545.24       30.9           1073.5         22.8                507.9         135.6
Unallocated                                    -           -              87.2          1.9
Unemployed                                     -           -             127.5          2.7
Total/Average                       1763.99      100.0           4710.0        100.0               374.5         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE~'
(General Government)
(Afs. million)
1974/75     1975/76      1976177      1977(78
Current Receipts                                         10,250       12,025       14,011       14,849
Current Expenditures                                      6,300        9.020       11,067       10,432
Current Surplus (Deficit)                                 3,950        3,005        2,944        4,417
Capital Expenditures        5/                            4,648        6,065       10,550       11,215
External Assistance (gross)                               2,958        4,644        4,453        7,251
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICE6-
1971172     1972/73      1973/74      1974/75       1975/76      1976/77      1977/78
(Million Afs. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                    10262        12309        13901        15195         17822        23784        26500
Bank credit to Public Sector (net )                       7490         8940        10269        11118         11188        13680        12395
Bank credit to Private Sector                             3485         4253         4259         5253          5585         6802         5730
Money and Quasi Money as : of GDP-/                                      14                                     16.4
General Price Index(1968/69 - 100)                        135           120        115.3        131.4          139.8       142          158.5
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                        10.5         -11.1       -3.9         13.9             6.5         1.6        11.6
Bank credit to Public Sector (net)                                       19.4       14.9          8.3              .6         8.4        22.3
Bank credit to Private Sector                                            22.0          .1        23.3            6.3         21.3        -9.0
NOTES:
1/  IBRD estimates.  The historical figures are based on crude approximations and assuch the growth
rates reported are mere orders of magnitude. On the GNP breakdown, the available figures are very crude
and therefore, the Gross Domestic Investment and Gross National Savings figures have not been reported.
2/ No figures are available for NFS separated into Exports and Imports; instead, net figures for "Other
current account" are supplied under Balaffce of Payments.
3/ Settled population and nomads.
4/  Since figures on GDP at current prices are not available, it is not possible to provide estimates of Govermment
Finance as a % of GDP.  Moreover, no separate figures on Central Government finances are available.
5/ Portion of development expenditure financed by foreign aid. To find its US Dollar equivalent, an official exchange
rate 45 Afghanis to 1 SDR and the respective annual average SDR, US$ ratio should be used on a number of Government
transactions.
6/ Year ending Marclh 20.
7/  Estimates on GDP at current prices'are only available for 1972/73 and 1975/76.



- 26 -                          Annex i
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAI. FL.Ol.S                Page  5 of  5 pages
BALANCE OF IAr.1ENTS                                   (US$ Million)                MlNKCIiANDIS  F.XIORTS
Pre I im .                                             Per-   Prelim.   Per-
1976/77       1?77/78                                      1976/77  cenit   1977/78   cent
Exports of Coods                                  282.5           322.0             flry Fruits and Nuts    68.2        23.0    82.9        26.5
Imports ui Goods                                  327.6          419.5              Fresb Fruits               23.0      7.7      22.9       7.3
Resource Gap (deficit - - )                       -45.1           -97.K Sarakul                                19.3       6.5     18.5       5.9
8/                                                             Cotton                     60.7    20.4       55.0      17.5
Interest Paym.nts                                  -8.4          -12.9              Carpets and Rugs           23.4       7.9     38.5      12.3
Other Factor Vuymlenta (Net):                                                       Natural Gas                39.6    13.3    39.3         12.5
Travel (net)                                    29.4           37.1              All Other Commodities  62.9         21.2     56.4       18.0
Investment IicLsse frum                                                                  Total            297.1    100.0   313.5        100.0
foreigni assets                              2.7            7.2
Embassies  cxpanditures (net)                    3.0            2.8
Service Cotipoiient of1
Project Aid (net)                            -10.7          -22.1             EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT. March 20, 1978-
Other current Acount (net
transfers)-                                  16.6           20.9                                                         US$ Million
Balance on Current Account                        -27.9           -63.3
IO/                                                        Outstanding,inclg.  undisbursed                 1,831.0
Net Loans and Grants 1                              78.1         167.8                     Disbursed                                1,058.6
(Disbursements)                               (98.9)        (200.3)                    Undisbursed                               832.4
(Amortization)                               (-20.8)        (-33.1)
Service Payments (1977/78)                         37.4
Other ItemLs n.i.e.                                 15.1           61.2                    Interest                                    11.9
Increase in Researves                               65.3          1657                      Amortization                               25.5
Cross Reserves (end year)                          212.3          366.9-'/                                            13
Net Reserves (end year)                            .,.             ...              Dcbt Service Ratio  (1977/78)                      13%
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports
Exports                         ...
RATE OF EXCHANGE             Free Rate
1971/72         -  USS     1.00 - Afs.  84.60
Afs.   1.00 - US$.    .0118
1972/73        -  US$.   1.00 - Afs.  80.50
Afs.   1.00 - US$.    .0125
1973/74        -  US$.   1.00 - Afs.  60.72
Afs.   1.00 - USS.    .0165
1974/75        -  US$.   1.00 - Afs.  56.58
Ara.   1.00 * US$.    .0177
1975/76        -  US$.  *11.00 - AMs.  55.04
Afs.   1.00 - US$.    .0182
1976/77         -  US$.   1.00 - Afs.  47.38
Ais.   1.00 - US$.    .0211
1977/78        -  US$.   1.00 - Afs.  43.99                                                                February  1979
Afs.   1.00 - US$.    .0227
1978/79        -  US$.   1.00 - Afs.  39.34
Afs.   1.00 - US$.    .0254
NOTES:
8/   Althoighi thil. is recorded ai a gross figure. iL can be a,nisued to be oet because interest received is negligible.
9/   Data on Workers  remittancer are not available, aItIouRIh these flowv  are proh.ably sirc.able.
10/  No breakdloai of loans and grants 1is availadle.
IH/  At end Dcceinber 1978.
12/  No figures on external privnte deht are avnilable.
13/  1:xc%,&:ie. not Iona lig. i                      b, io  ,xci.,,,,,' by tuw L,.ran riank.



- 27                    Annex II
Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)1/
US $ million
(less cancel-
Credit                                                                   Amount   ations)
Number    Year       Borrower         Purpose                               IDA   Undisbursed
158       1969       Afghanistan     Highway Maintenance I                   5.0   Fully disb.
202       1970       Afghanistan      Agricultural Credit I                  5.0   Fully disb.
248.0     1971       Afghanistan      Irrigation                             5.0   Fully disb.
248.1     1976       Afghanistan      Irrigation                            10.0      7.6
374       1973       Afghanistan     Aviation Communications                 2.5      1.3
375       1973       Afghanistan     Livestock I                             9.0      1.5
380       1973      Afghanistan       IDBA                                   2.0      0.5
449       1973       Afghanistan     Highway Maintenance II                 11.5      2.7
539       1975       Afghanistan     Agricultural Credit II                 13.0      0.3
563       1975       Afghanistan     Kabul Water Supply and Sanitation    9.(         4.1
627       1976       Afghanistan     Thermal Power                         10.0   Fully disb.
649       1976       Afghanistan     Livestock II                           15.0     13.0
674       1976       Afghanistan     Education II                            6.0      5.8
721       1977       Afghanistan     Agricultural Credit III                12.0      9.4
778       1978      Afghanistan       Irrigation II                         22.0     22.0
779       1978       Afghanistan     Fruit and Vegetable Exports            18.0     18.0
836       1979       Afghanistan     Kabul Water Supply and Sewerage        16.5     16.5
89i3'     1979      Afghanistan      Education III                         21.0      21.0
Total                                                192.5 c/
Total now outstanding and held by IDA-/              192.5 c/
Total undisbursed                                              123.7
a!  Not yet effective.
b/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
c/ In addition, a credit of $17.6 million is scheduled for consideration by the
Board of Directors on June 5, 1979.
1/  Credit No. 68 for an Education Project in 1964 was cancelled at the Government's
request in 1970. A sum of $0.3 million which had been disbursed for th,e project
was consolidated under Credit 248.
B. STATEMENT OF' IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Investment No.        Year                . Institution         Loan     Equity      Total
243                   1973       Industrial Development Bank   -            0.3       0.3
of Afghanistan
Total gross commitments, less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        _         0.3       0.3
Total undisbursed



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 248 - First Khanabad Irrigation Project: US$5 million Credit of
June 11, 1971; Effectiveness Date: December 22, 1972; and $10 million
Supplementary Credit of January 12, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 19,
1976;   Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
The major civil works contract was awarded to a local public cor-
poration after international competitive bidding.  Although the project is
about a year and a half behind schedule, quite good progress was made in 1977
and 1978 on the construction of the diversion structures and lining of canals.
Major construction is now nearing completion.  The agricultural extension
services are unsatisfactory. However, this inadequacy is being addressed
under the Second Khanabad Irrigation Project (Credit 778).
Cr. No. 374 - Aviation Project:   US$2.5 million:  Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: November 26, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Flight Information Center, the major project component is now
complete and appears to be functioning satisfactorily. Government delays in
consultant appointment and bid award resulted in a cost overrun of $2.5 mil-
lion which has been financed through bilateral aid. Engineering/feasibility
studies have been completed. The institutional improvements required under
the Credit Agreement have been designed but they have not yet been put into
effect. These include the establishment of the Air Navigation Authority as a
separate entity with its own Charter, and a modern commercial and management
accounting system for it.
Cr. No. 375 - First Livestock Development Project:   US$9.0 million Credit of
May 2, 1973; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1974; Closing Date: October 1,
1979.
Construction of the slaughterhouse is now complete. Administrative
weaknesses which caused initial delays in its operation are being dealt with,
and recent progress included the signing of a meat contract, and the provi-
sion of an exchange rate export incentive to the Herat Livestock Development
Corporation. However, administrative bottlenecks remain a severe constraint
to successful project implementation. Progress of the on-farm development
component of the project has been generally satisfactory following the imple-
mentation of a set of modified loan security requirements in late 1975. The
Herat Livestock Development Company sent its first group of technicians
abroad for training in May 1977.   An outstanding project feature is the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
success of the Experimental Range Improvement Centre in conducting surveys
which have resulted in the accumulation of a wealth of information on range
productivity, movement of nomadic flocks, and flock production data wlhich will
be of value :in formulating future livestock range management projects. Proj-
ect implemenitation has recently been hindered by insecurity in the project
area, political events in neighboring Iran which have prevented export of meat
to that country, and difficulty in getting good quality consultant staff to
serve there.
Cr. No. 380 - Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan IDBA Project: US$2.0
million Credit of May 15, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
In September 1976, the Board approved the allocation of the entire
$2 million credit, originally planned for several sub-projects, to one public
sector project, Badghis Cotton Ginning.   After initial delays due tc, bottle-
necks in civil works, the plant is now under construction. US$1.5 million of
the credit has been disbursed. Construction is expected to be completed by
August/September 1979; there is however a risk of slippage to 1980.
Cr. No. 449 - Second Road Improvement and Maintenance Project:  US$11.5
million Credit of December 21, 1973; Effectiveness Date: June 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
At amount of US$2.7 million remains undisbursed of which US$2.2 mil-
lion has been committed. Upgrading of about 75% of the road length designated
under the project is complete.  Institution building so far has not been
entirely successful, but slow progress is nevertheless being made.
Cr. No. 539 - Second Agricultural Development Bank Credit: US$13.0 million
Credit of April 25, 1975; Effectiveness Date: July 24, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The credit is now fully committed. A sum of $300,000 remains
undisbursed. Implementation of the Third Agricultural Credit Project has
begun.
Cr. No. 563 - Kabul Water Supply and Sanitation Project:   US$9.0 million
Credit of June 23, 1975;   Effectiveness    Date:  December 23, 1975; Closing
Date:   December 31, 1980.
Project progress although somewhat behind schedule, remains satis-
factory overall.  Major contracts for pipe supply and pumping equipment have
been awarded; delivery has begun. Civil works construction has commenced.
The Central Authority for Water and Sewerage continues to expand andl con-
solidate its management capability with help from consultants and a financial
advisor.   Revised billing and collection procedures have been implemented.
Meter installation has commenced. Construction of the associated Afshar
project financed by the Federal Republic of Germany is expected to start
shortly. A study to design a feasible sanitation program is in progress.



- 30 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 627 - Thermal Power Project, US$10.0 million, Credit of May 17,
1976:  Effectiveness Date:   November 10, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30,
1979.
The physical facilities are now complete. However, progress on the
institutional side has been slow. Although energy losses have been reduced,
Government has yet to establish a revised charter for DABM, and DABM has
to improve its financial management. Government and DABM have yet to agree
on DABM's financial target for 1979/80, which was suggested by IDA as an
intermediate objective before the agreed rate of return objective of 8% in
1980/81.
Cr. No. 649 - Second Livestock Development Project, US$15.0 million, Credit
of June 28, 1976; Effectiveness Date:        September 27, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Project implementation is now gathering momentum following initial
delays; and 4 Sheep Improvement Center sites have been identified. Except for
the credit component, disbursements are behind schedule largely because of pro-
curement delays. Consultants have been appointed and mobilized.  Contracts for
the supply of drilling machinery, road maintenance equipment and vehicles have
been awarded. Field surveys to select appropriate sites for the remaining
Sheep Improvement Centers are in progress. A pilot range development project
will be implemented shortly. Excellent progress has been made in the Sheep
Vaccination program with the establishment of 11 animal health centers. As
in the case of the First Livestock Project, political events in neighboring
Iran and insecurity in the project area have recently hindered project imple-
mentation.
Cr. No. 674 - Second Education Project, US$6.0 million, Credit of January 7,
1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:   April 30, 1982.
While the project is currently delayed by about 15 months, project
completion is expected to be 3 months behind schedule. The results of the
recent civil works bids were unsatisfactory, but Government is attempting to
conclude satisfactory contracts. Furniture and equipment lists are being
finalized. The agricultural teacher training program is making good progress
with the arrival of specialists financed by ODM.
Cr. No. 721 - Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
June 20, 1977;   Effectiveness Date:  September 20, 1977;  Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
As part of the Credit, AgBank has begun implementation of an agreed
program for upgrading the status and standard of branch offices and staff,
and to delegate more authority to both lower echelon headquarters staff and
branch directors. However, due to changes of several key branch directors,
following the change in Government, the program has recently suffered a set-
back. Steps are also being taken to further improve the fertilizer program
by which AgBank makes about 60,000 short term loans annually for fertilizer



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
and productive inputs to farmers, including large numbers of smaller land-
owners. The impact on AgBank of recent Government decrees including inter-
alia debt forgiveness for small and landless farmers, and a revisioni of the
Land ReformLaw has not been adverse up to the present. Clarifications of
the Governmlent's intentions on land reform should result in progress of the
land settlement component. Arrangements for the Fertilizer Study are being
finalized. A decision on the establishment of the Supply Department: as a
separate entity will be taken following review by Government and IDA of
various alternatives.
Cr. No. 778 - Second Khanabad Irrigation Project; US$22 million Credit of
April 10, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The terms of reference for a consultant to carry out all engineering
and agricuLtural project work including the setting up of agricultural exten-
sion services in the project area and a review of the national agricultural
extension and research services have been finalized. The terms of reference
for a consultant, who would carry out a feasibility study for the Warsech Dam
have been finalized, and proposals have been invited.
Cr. No. 779 - Fruit and Vegetable Export Project; US$18.0 Credit of
September 27, 1978; yet to be declared effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
The associated UNDP project has been signed, and a project director
selected. The credit was declared effective on May 15, 1979.
Cr. No. 836 - Kabul Water Supply and Sewerage Project, US$16.5 million Credit
of August 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1978; Closing )ate:
December 31, 1983.
The credit was declared effective on December 4, 1978, and project
implementation has commenced.
Cr. No. 893 - Third Education Project, US$21.0 million Credit of April 13,
1979; yet to be declared effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The credit was signed on April 13, 1979.



- 32 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
GHAZNI-WARDAK AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to            16 months
prepare the project:                    (January 1977 through April 1978)
(b) Agency which has prepared the
project:                                Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development Department (the latter
with the assistance of FAO/CP and
UN).
(c) First Bank mission to consider
the project:                            July 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                June 15, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   May 1, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          September 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
At the Government's request, IDA assisting in drafting legislation
relevant to the project.  IBRD would act as executing agency for the proposed
UNDP technical assistance project.
Section III
1.   Conditions of effectiveness would include the following:
(a) Government would establish the Presidents' Council for Coordina-
tion of Rural Development, the Provincial Rural Development
Council of Ghazni, and the Rural Development Department Regional
Planning and Implementation Unit (RDD-RPIU); and the President,
two Vice-Presidents, and three Director Generals for the RDD-RPIU
would be appointed (paras. 57, 58);
(b) The execution of the UNDP Project Document, and of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between Government and AgBank (paras. 62, 63);
(c)  The effectiveness of the Loan Agreement between IFAD and the Gov-
ernment, and the appointment of the Association as the Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the Fund Grant (para.
62).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
2.         Other special conditions are:
(a) By March 31, 1981, a study on the how the costs of minor
irrigation rehabilitation works could be recovered would
be submitted for IDA comments; if cost recovery is found
feasible, recommendations satisfactory to Government and
IDA would be implemented by March 31, 1982 (para 45);
(b) Undertaking by Government to submit the first three
appraisals and preliminary designs each for the minor
irrigation rehabilitation and works, minor road improve-
ment works, and village water supplies, for IDA comment,
before commencement of work on the first subproject of
each component (paras. 45, 51, 52);
(c) Government agreement on the principle of full recovery
of costs of drugs and medicines (para. 49);
(d) By March 31, 1980, a study on charges for animal vaccines
would be provided for IDA comments, and its recommendations
implemented by March 31, 1981 (para. 49); and
(e) Government agreement to review project progress jointly
with IDA, and make any modifications necessary in project
design and composition, by not later than three years from
credit signature (para. 61).






IBRD 14011R
677                                        o   63           .'                                 69'                         MAY 1979
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
35'                                                                                      GHAZNI-WARDAK AGRICULTURAL
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT"
B A M  I Y A  N                                  -)>                                                                POSSIBLE LOCATIONS OF
/                ~~~~~FARM SERVICE CENTERS
o anvoo 9+ A i    ) R    t         * HeImo                                           RESEARCH STATION
ROADS IDENTIFIED FOR
R             POSSIBLE IMPROVEMENT
S j\Behsud                                     J        /      4 j PAVED ROADS
GRAVEL ROADS
-C //.. RIVERS
\   /   <   A  f  ~)i$'~g_cr   I  (3   SALT LAKES
0    TOWNS OR VILLAGES
\  /   Xr )   /  W a              (i)  PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
34                                                                                   h                                   -  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
f J                      ,                          \ -    - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
UROZGAN
,)    .  f_    -    \                r                    O,  2,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 10  40   6,0
/  /   --4-7    C   Ghazni  t           KILOMETERS
This map has been prepared by the
World Bank's staff exclusively for
the convenience of the readers of
Bonde    /         ~~~~~the report to which it is atached.
Bcin< Qara  /   Andejl Xar deh   W   The denominat,ons used and the
Qara           And              ard                       bounda'ies aho,a, an this map
B   h                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do not .mply, an the part Of the
UroL9-' ,/'         Jaghi iori                                                                                World do ank and its affilietes, any
.           ~~~~~judgment on the legal status of
/o                I A~                                                                                     any a dalu  an tenrtory or any endorsement
Luman                                                                    or acceorance of such boundaries.
/       ' $SG    H   A /Z   '    I ,/    )r 
7                             %"l  Jand         Muqur          A        A Banadwz                                           a)
Z  A  B U L                                   Khosh   m an                        /     P A  K T I A 
//o*e   2    | o~~nara>              \           (>    
Nowa               I
---- Woaza Khwa
-32\,                                                                                                                / -                            32'
P ~~~~67'  _v 
CaspianA            U S.S R\
5'        N.'     X                   \ @'~ tJApp--rownut m- ,/
FGHANISTAN        t                                                                  wchere>
I R A N              R  OF( f       _                                                               D    /
'..   PAKISTAN   /            NEPAL
BAH   4,                        , 
LU.A.E. ?   \             X   ,        I N D I A                   1THIS MAP DOES NOT REFLECT PROVINCIAL BOUNDARY CHANGES MADE
SAUDI  "OMAN                                                             IN EARLY 1979, UNDER WHICH WARDAK WAS ABSORBED INTO KABUL
ARABIA            Arabian Seo                           31'              PROVINCE AND PAKTIKA CREATED OUT OF PARTS COF GHAZNI AND PAKTIA.  31'
68'                                             69'






_G' E7~                  A4hGE.                    fF '                      o'do                      70A72                                                        IBRD 13204RI
U.   S . S           
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD    g4AN!                                                                                                 7         --'g EMK CRPEI
N  .    :     N I M R O Z  /           <4p    2    !               \                                                          A
/, / H E I A4.'A N ~KD                                                                                                               _    /     _r
~~~J  J A N ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      oA                                                ____
AS'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HL
At                        I< 0  t ( TZ s nqrD 
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                                                                               DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
J\l                                                              f ^                   P/GT                                      AFGHANISTAN
fl\N
\ ~~ | f t _ 5 ~~ > $ / a m 9 w n e v r r t ~~~~~ 2-<4 PA CE AGA
q C2                                                                              CIfIES OR T    AN     4
-". PAOVIACI ALGAKEATIEG
y:A A S$4 Kt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssa  '5-~~~~DNO PS'    .                                      -
('7'   I->  K   I    '-~~~~~~~~~~~J                                    A                                        T',IA MAP AGFA NAT AFEFET FAGAINCIAL ASSASATA CHANGOSEST ~ILET II0VNCIL .-SAY CNG1
/         K~~ IIMRO
9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{)     SILJMI NSA                                                         4'"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 



