CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 928 AF
Project Agreement
(Agricultural and Rural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AFGHANISTAN
Dated June 25, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 928 AF
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association)
and AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AFGHANISTAN, existing as a
legal entity under the laws of the Borrower, (hereinafter called
AGBANK).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million five hundred
thousand dollars ($16,500,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that AGBANK agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associ-
ation as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to nine million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR9,800,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan
igreement, and the Association has accepted such appointment;
and
(D) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AGBANK, a part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
and of the Fund Loan will be made available to AGBANK on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS AGBANK, in consideration of the foregoing, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "subsidiary" means any company or entity of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned, or which is effectively controlled, by AGBANK
or by any one or more subsidiaries of AGBANK or by AGBANK and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AGBANK shall carry out Part A (vi) of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and Fund Loan relent or made available, as the case
may be, to AGBANK shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AGBANK undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
relent or made available, as the case may be, to it by the Bor-
rower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by AGBANK to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, AGBANK
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan relent or made available, as the
case may be, to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. (a) AGBANK shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for Part A
(vi) of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) AGBANK: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A (vi) of the
Project (including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, and
to disclose their use in said part of the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's and the Fund's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Part A
(vi) of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, AGBANK shall prepare and furnish to the
Borrower, the Association and the Fund a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of Part A (vi) of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by AGBANK and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(d) AGBANK shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
accredited representatives to examine all plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of AGBANK and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. AGBANK shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
and the Fund shall otherwise agree, AGBANK shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,


﻿-4-
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) AGBANK shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A (vi) of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit and the Fund Loan.
(b) AGBANK shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part A (vi) of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit or the Fund Loan, or the performance by
AGBANK of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. The operating policies and procedures of
AGBANK in respect of Part A (vi) of the Project shall be as set
forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, as the
same may be modified by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association in accordance with the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement, and, the terms and conditions applicable to
AGBANK's sub-loans, under the Project, shall be as set forth in
the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AGBANK
Section 3.01. AGBANK shall at all times manage its affairs
and conduct its business in an efficient manner under capable
management and with competent staff and in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural credit
practices.
Section 3.02. AGBANK shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association, for insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. (a) AGBANK shall at all times operate and
maintain its equipment and property and promptly make all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
engineering and agricultural practices.


﻿-5-
(b) Except in the normal course of its business, AGBANK
shall not, without the agreement of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.
Section 3.04. (a) AGBANK shall not establish, acquire or
take over any subsidiary except on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b) AGBANK shall cause each of its subsidiaries, if any,
and each of the subsidiaries established, acquired or taken
over, after the date of this Agreement, if any, to observe and
perform, as appropriate, the obligations of AGBANK under this
Agreement to fh extent to which such obligations shall be appli-
cable to such   bsidiary, as though such obligations were binding
upon each of st , subsidiaries.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AGBANK shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) AGBANK shall establish and maintain separate accounts
for Part A (vi) of the Project and shall record in such accounts
all amounts disbursed or received for or in connection with said
Part of the Project.
(c) Without limitation upon the generality of paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this Section, AGBANK shall ensure that, until
one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit and
Fund Loan on the basis of certificates of expenditure are
retained, and shall make such records available to the Associ-
ation's and Fund's accredited representatives upon their request
for inspection.
Section 4.02. AGBANK shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) and its records supporting


﻿- 6 -
certificates of expenditure referred to in Se-tion 4.01 (c)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance w --h appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association and
the Fund as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each su-h year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested includ-
ing a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of such certi-
ficates of expenditure showing whether the proceeds of the Credit
and Fund Loan withdrawn by AGBANK on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association and the Fund such
other information and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of AGBANK thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the earliest date on which both the Development
Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement
shall have terminated in accordance with their
respective terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
AGBANK of this event.
(c) If either the Development Credit Agreement, or the Fund
Loan Agreement, terminates in accordance with its terms before the


﻿- 7 -
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section and the other
Agreement reL,ains in force, all obligations under this Project
Agreement of AGBANK and of the lender under that other Agreement
shall remain in force.
(d) If the Association shall notify AGBANK that its appoint-
ment as Cooperating Institution under the Fund Loan Agreement has
terminated, all references in this Agreement to the Fund, to the
Fund Loan and to the Fund Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be
deleted.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For AGBANK:
Agricultural Development Bank
of Afghanistan
P.O. Box 414
Kabul,
Afghanistan
Cable address:
AGBANK
Kabul, Afghanistan
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of AGBANK may be taken or executed by its
President or such other person or persons as the said President
shall designate in writing, and AGBANK shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AFGHANISTAN
By /s/ A. G. Farahi
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE
Terms and Conditions
for AGBANK Sub-loans
1.   General
AGBANK sub-loans under the Project shall be made in accor-
dance with its Charter and the Policy Statement and Loan Regula-
tions dated October 18, 1970, as the same may be amended from time
to time with the prior agreement of the Association.
2.   Security Requirements
AGBANK will continue to take security for its sub-loans
under the Project in accordance with the said Policy Statement and
Loan Regulations.
3.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
(a) The minimum interest rate and contribution of farmers
and the maximum permissible grace period and the period of
repayment ior AGBANK sub-loans are set forth below:
Category of           Interest  Sub-borrowers' Repayment    Grace
Sub-loans             Rate      Contribution    Period    Period
(A) On-farm deve-
lopment, small
machinery and
equipment            8           20            12        4
(B) Fertilizer and
other inputs        10            0             1        0
(b) It is understood that AGBANK shall allow rebate to
cooperatives not exceeding one percentage point of the applicable
interest rates.
(c) The terms and conditions of sub-loans to: (i) coopera-
tives under the Project; (ii) Project staff for the purchase of
motorcycles and bicycles, if applicable; and (iii) village work-
shop owners for purchase of tools and spare parts, shall be
satisfactory to the Association.


