Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 26294
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-46 180; TF-26 127)
ON
THE FIRST PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN (PSRL-1)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
09/03/2002
Social and Economic Development Group (MNSED)
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 15, 2002)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
1 JD = US$ 1.41
US$ 1 = .708JD
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA              Country Financial and Accounting Assessment
CPAR              Country Procurement Assessment Report
DEF               Development and Employment Fund
ERDL              Economic Reform and Development Loan
ESW               Country Economic and Sector Work
EU                European Union
FIAS              Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FMBR              Financial Management and Budgetary Reform
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GTZ               German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IFC               International Finance Corporation
IMF               International Monetary Fund
JD                Jordanian Dinar
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MIGA              Multilateral International Guarantee Agency
MoAD              Ministry of Administrative Development
MoF               Ministry of Finance
MoJ               Ministry of Justice
MoP               Ministry of Planning
MoSD              Ministry of Social Development
MTEF              Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NAF               National Aid Fund
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
NSETP             National Social and Economic Transformation Program (2001-06)
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
PIP               Public Investment Program
PSRL              Public Sector Reform Loan
QIZ               Qualifying Industrial Zones
RCDJ              Royal Commission for Development of the Judiciary
SPP               Social Productivity Program
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
WTO               World Trade Organization
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager/Director:   Dipak Dasgupta, Mustapha K. Nabli
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Charles Humphreys



JORDAN
JO-PSRL 1
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             10
6. Sustainability                                                                 11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. List of officials from the Government and agencies, and others, interviewed  31
during mission, January 6-17, 2002



Project ID: P066121                                       Project Name: JO-PSRL 1
Team Leader. Francois Lacasse                             TL Unit: MNSED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: July 3, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: JO-PSRL 1                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-46180; TF-26127
Country/Department: JORDAN                                            Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%); Law and justice (21 %);
General education sector (14%); General industry and trade sector
(13%); Health (2%)
Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Judicial and other
dispute resolution mechanisms (S); Legal services (S); Public
expenditure, financial management and procurement (S); Education
for the knowledge economy (S)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/01/2001                              Ef.fective: 06/22/2001        06/22/2001
Appraisal:  04/12/2001                                MTR:
Approval:  06/21/2001                              Closing: 12/31/2001           12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan/Ministry of Planning
Other Partners: None
STAFF                    Current                                At Appraisal
Vice President.          Jean-Louis Sarbib                     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:        Joseph. P. Saba                        Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:          Dipak Dasgupta                         Dipak Dasgupta
Team Leader at ICR:      Charles Humphreys                      Francois Lacasse
ICR Primary Author:      Sulaiman S. Wasty
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Country assistance context



Jordan is a small and open economy whose performance is heavily dependent upon the economic and political
events of the region. The country's vulnerability to regional shocks and the price of oil stems from: the importance
of its export of labor services (around 30 percent of its labor force working outside the country); the tight links
between the regional revenues from oil and its exports of goods; and the sensitivity of tourism receipts to political
instability across its borders.
Following 15 years of economic boom that ended with the fall in oil prices in the mid-1 980s, Jordan faced a severe
balance of payments crisis in the late 1980s-compounded by disturbances associated with the Gulf War (300,000
Jordanians returning in a span of few months). In the event, the challenges for restructuring the economy
included: reducing public sector domination and enhancing the role of the private sector; increasing the relative
size of traded goods and services vis a vis non-tradeables; and moving from the hitherto regionally-oriented and
protected domestic industries toward globally competitive sectors.
Embarking since 1989 upon an economic reform agenda to stabilize the economy, improve efficiency, and broaden
the role of the private sector, the country has made resolute stabilization and adjustment efforts supported by the
IMF, the Bank, and selected bilateral donors. These reforms have produced marked shifts in the economy,
manifested in the decreased share of public sector as a source of demand, a rise in private non-residential
investment as a proportion of GDP, and a diversified composition and destination of exports. Further, inflation has
been contained, the current account situation stabilized, and budget deficits reduced. In addition, Jordan
implemented a major shift in trade policy: signing an association treaty with the EU in 1999, joining the WTO in
2000, and entering into a free-trade agreement with the United States in 2001. In conjunction with the structural
changes necessary to implement the trade policy shift, Jordan has achieved remarkable progress in privatization
(notably, utilities), in maintaining exchange rate stability and building sufficient foreign exchange reserves, in
refocusing its state revenues on a broad-based Value-added Tax, in reducing public external debt, in increasing
recourse to the internal financial markets, and in pursuing fiscal consolidation under the IMF program. These
adjustment efforts are beginning to come to fruition and spur growth of the economy.
Bank assistance to Jordan in this period targeted at: macroeconomic stability and growth, private investment;
export promotion; human development, including social protection; and improving water resource management
and urban development. The Bank has supported structural reforms through the Industry and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL) in 1990 (US$150 million), the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) in 1993 (US$80
million), and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) in 1994 (US$80 million). The centerpiece of
Bank's assistance under CAS (1995-99) included ERDLs I-III, and under the current CAS (2000-01) includes
PSRLs I-IX. ESW has also been broad ranging and extensive. Bank commitments were over US$1 billion. IFC
has been involved in the financial sector, tourism, and infrastructure with US$89 million of committed exposure.
MIGA's first guarantee in FY01 has insured a fertilizer and animal feed supplement project with US$ 39.1
million. FIAS has conducted an investor survey and has advised on reorganizing investment promotion activities.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
PSRL 1, designed as a programmatic loan approved by the Board in June 2001, is the first in a planned
series of three PSRLs to provide GoJ with fast-disbursing external financing to meet anticipated gaps
originating from its fiscal needs, while supporting fundamental changes in the core public sector;
specifically, to strengthen public institutional capacity and the quality of services. The loan's key aims are:
(a) strengthening private investment; diversifying the economy; achieving closer integration with the global
economy; (b) strengthening the country's human capital base; and (c) ensuring better access to services for
citizens, particularly the poor.
These objectives are highly relevant-considered both at the inception and completion of the loan-to the
present stage of Jordan's economic development.
-2 -



First, continuity of reforms is the key to pressing forward the solid achievements to date. Prior to initiation
of the PSRL program, the GoJ had already implemented a series of far-reaching reforms (as noted in the
preceding section) for liberalizing the economy under the Bank-supported ERDLs (1995-2000). In
consequence, economic growth has begun to pick up despite continuing regional instability. Real GDP
growth rate at around 4 percent has been sustained for the last seven quarters up to 2001Q3. Gains are
also being made in new export production (mostly textiles and garments from the QLZs and
pharmaceuticals) with a dramatic rise of around 19 percent in current dollar terms for the first three
quarters of 2001. An investment culture has emerged; the private sector is replacing the government as the
main source of economic activity; and the challenge of poverty reduction is being addressed (primarily
through SPP and in the context of the NSETP).
Second, it is crucial to identify the remaining and persistent impediments to the growth potential. The main
obstacles in liberalizing the economy having been successfully tackled, PSRL 1 has focused on the major
weaknesses in the public sector: institutional capacity and the quality and delivery of public services. By
creating a stable and favorable investment climate, providing easier access to core public sector services for
businesses and households, and streamlining civil and judicial administration, the PSRL program over a
three/four year period is envisaged to translate into higher economic growth supported by a robust
economic performance. Commensurate benefits to the poor (though not a specific focus of the program)
are expected to accrue from improved basic services especially in areas of justice, health, and education.
Finally, yet importantly, this quick-disbursing loan operation has contributed to the balance of payments
stability necessary while implementing a reform agenda in an inherently shock-prone economic and political
environment.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
As initial steps in a programmed framework, PSRL I has concentrated on the initiatives where sufficient
planning and implementation had already taken place prior to the inception of the loan (i.e., June 2001).
These initiatives are categorized as follows:
(a)    Communications strategy
- Promoting public participation, transparency, and consensus on the salient issues in Jordan's public
sector reform by establishing two-way communications channels with the population, as well as initiating a
dialogue with specific interest groups such as public sector employees, students, business people,
parliamentarians, and the media. Building on public opinion research, and embarking upon a set of
coordinated activities (e.g., awareness building, public outreach and education, research and training) based
on clear goals, a proactive agenda, and a system of ongoing monitoring and feedback.
(b)    Reform of the judicial sector
- Addressing the main problems in the existing system: (a) inadequate predictability of judgments; (b)
inefficiency of the judicial process (including long delays resulting in a huge backlog of cases, even at the
level of the Supreme Court); (c) lack of transparency ofjudicial decision-making; (d) insufficient
-3 -



competency in matters of commercial law; (e) limited capacity to enforce judgments; (f) poor dissemination
of legal information; and (g) antiquated MoJ's processes and organization.
- Reforms to be undertaken include: (a) modernizing the legal framework for the organization and
functioning of the judiciary; (b) improving the teaching methods and training of the magistrates; (c)
improved compensation, streamlined workload, and career development for magistrates and judges; (d)
systematic upgrading of and dissemination of legal information; (e) generalized court and case
management, with vastly improved access to decisions and records; and (f) introduction of a country-wide
court and case management system to promote equity in access to the judicial system and to reduce delays,
errors, and costs to the users.
(c)    Reform of civil service institutions
- Focusing on two particular avenues: (a) rewriting the Civil Service ByLaw, so as to pave the way for a
new relationship between the State and its employees-in which evaluation and promotion are fair,
transparent, and based on merit and one in which responsive service is rewarded and poor performance
leads to dismissal; and (b) improving the incentives framework.
(d)    Government restructuring
- Pursuing three objectives: (a) an early establishment of organizational structures that are capable of
sustaining and furthering some of the key reform tracks under way; (b) relatively-ambitious departmental
reforms in big ministries such as Education which would not only help modernize activities in the public
sector, but would also have an exemplary character vis a vis the rest of the system; and (c) rationalizing
present structures and operations so as to correct what have been some inefficient arrangements, and to
reach an organizational set-up capable of much more rapid self-analysis and adaptation than presently is
the case.
(e)    Improvements in services to the public
- Immediate objectives consisting of rapid and tangible results in improving service delivery on as many
fronts as possible (ranging from health and education to property registration and all matters pertaining to
compliance with identity papers and taxes), and in so doing, laying the groundwork for further
self-sustaining improvements.
- In the medium-term, creating a permanent network for improving the quality and access to services; this
network to consist of line civil servants and to take the form of task forces whose membership would
change according to specific services being examined. Complementary initiatives (e.g., widely-distributed
brochures, telephone data bank services, and websites)-covering the whole of government-supplied
services in the medium term-to focus on ensuring transparency, full information, and equal access for the
beneficiaries.
(f)    Financial management and budgetarv reforms
- In the first phase, to introduce a program-structured budget and planning for the MTEF at the center and
in ministries; and to initiate parallel reforms in financial management, in keeping with the recommendations
of the CFAA and CPAR.
-4 -



PSRL 1 is well designed, for the following reasons.
The program adopts an incremental and a pragmatic approach, without any claim to grand designs of the
optimal end states (a la logical framework). Its dominant features are problem solving and sequencing
improvements in terms of political feasibility, adequacy of technical capability, and suitability of time
frames-particularly relevant in the context of a volatile regional environment.
The program also aims at concurrent implementation along several tracks. In each track, the responsibility
for implementation is clearly attributed while parallel initiatives are to be coordinated at the highest level.
For example, RCJD is entrusted with the task of judicial reform, while MoAD leads the other public sector
reforms (e.g., civil service, quality of and access to services, government restructuring).
However, an area of insufficient attention in the FMBR component pertains to the development of
evaluation capacity (ex ante and ex post) at the levels of both a designated coordinating agency and the line
ministries. Monitoring entails: (a) authority to perform; and (b) accountability for implementation. In
Jordan, the function is presently concentrated on detailed reporting requirements by the sectoral ministries.
Evaluation, on the other hand, needs to incorporate: (a) an objective measurement of the performance of
projects and programs; and (b) deriving lessons from experience. In principle, evaluation has two
dimensions: (a) self evaluation (ex ante, ongoing, and ex post) by the initiating and implementing agencies,
who are also required to specify monitorable indicators of perfornance; and (b) independent evaluation (ex
post) upon project/program completion. This M&E function as yet does not exist at various levels of the
government nor is being actively promoted. At present, there is a considerable lack of analytical
capabilities in the sectoral ministries/agencies for the preliminary appraisal and selection of
projects/programs, as well as for tracking progress beyond standard reporting requirements.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory.
The PSRL program represents a rational continuity in the reform effort initiated through ERDLs 1-111 and
which played an important role in assisting Jordan's transition to a strategy of outward-oriented growth led
by the private sector. It expands upon the achievements of the ERDLs in at least two ways. First,
programmatic loan instruments have demonstrated their suitability for complex reforms entailing economic
framework and legislation. Second, the sequencing of reforms in Jordan conforms to the pattern of
successes observed from other countries: first comes macroeconomic stabilization, then trade policy, and
then a shift to private sector-led growth with commensurate changes in the legislative and regulatory
framework. In almost all countries, it has only been after these reforms have been carried out that a
restructuring of the core public sector is is successfully undertaken.
Further, the program components follow the agenda for public sector management reform recommended at
the completion of the ERDL program in 2000. Similarly, the loan operation is marked by complete
consistency with the priorities established in the 1999 CAS.
In terms of maintaining macroeconomic stability, the operation is fully consistent with the requirements of
the IMF program. Prior to the tenure of the PSRL 1, a new Enhanced Fund Facility (EFF) for 1999-2001
- 5 -



was approved in April 1999; and is likely that a continuation of the EFF will take place in April 2002.
The locus of initiative lay clearly with the GoJ, together with a strong expression of political will by the top
leadership, His Majesty-critical indicators of reform readiness/country ownership of the reform program.
The letter of development policy was underpinned by extensive discussions amongst officials of the key
ministries involved in the implementation of the program. Additionally, there has been a remarkable
continuity in several country counterparts who had been thoroughly engaged in the inception and
completion of the preceding ERDL program. Simultaneously, there has been an excellent rapport and a
constructive policy dialogue between the Bank staff and the major government officials at all stages of
program preparation.
Last but not least, the risks (regional stability, and the complexity and demandingness of loan conditions)
were quite high, with the current period of external developments being exceptionally challenging. These
risks were mitigated mostly through the operation's following of an iterative approach to achievements; i.e.,
building credibility with short-term successes, creating consensus, and maintaining momentum for the
longer term.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall Outcome: Satisfactory
Reporting on implementation "completion" for a one-year policy-based loan forming a part of a planned
three-phased program (as in the case of PSRL 1) is problematic-given the short time horizon for assessing
outcomes and/or even outputs. This is especially true given the broad-based nature of the PSRL program
where significant achievements of results are highly contingent upon the subsequent pace and momentum of
the reform program-to be indicated in the prior actions and commitments under the subsequent
operations. Thus, the following judgments are to be viewed more in the form of an "implementation
report" of the essential building blocks (albeit inputs, activities, processes, and/or outputs ) for achieving
the program objectives.
The above caveat on results notwithstanding, all the actions on the PSRL l's components taken prior to
Board (before June 2001) are being followed up as earmarked for 2001-02-though at an uneven breadth
and pace (see section 4.2). Notable progress has been made in the judicial sector, government
restructuring, and simplification of administrative procedures for public services. Conversely,
communications strategy and implementation of civil service reforms have experienced substantial delays,
while FMBR has met so far with limited success. Annex 1 shows a comparison (overall and by
component) of the outcome/impact indicators, loan's projections, and the progress to date.
Implications for Poverty Reduction
Though PSRL 1 is not focused on poverty reduction, the benefits are expected to accrue from the progress
in attaining the overall objectives of the program: judicial and legal reform, civil service reform,
government restructuring, budgetary and financial reform, effective communications strategy, and
improved access to public services. Likewise, gender disparities (not of a severe concern in Jordan, given
the country's high level of human development) are likely to reduce commensurately as progress is made in
civil service reform along with enhanced access to and improvements in public services.
-6-



The government's efforts toward addressing poverty are reflected in the budget for 2002 with an allocation
of JD250 million in capital expenditure to be spent on the NSETP-which will concentrate on education,
health care, training, developing govemorates, as well as legal and administrative reforms. Additionally,
JD29 million will be provided for direct social services.
Equally important, the Council of Ministers has approved a comprehensive national strategy based on a
USAID-funded report: Poverty Alleviation for a Stronger Jordan (October 2001). The recommendations
set out in the report entail a national and modem approach reflecting a broad continuum, not one limited to
"welfare reform" or one limited to a single ministry. Some of the main issues tackled involve: increasing
aid to NAF beneficiaries in addition to those left out, developing a database for national assistance
programs, and establishing a national GIS mapping to track the poor. The report also deals with issues of
health and education, in addition to sustainable micro financing for low-income working families and
increasing employment opportunities in rural and secondary towns. A road map is then designed to support
each initiative through improved collaboration and leveraged investments involving the public, private, and
NGOs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Communications strategy
Modest.
Efforts are being made by MoAD toward building public awareness of the reforms. But, to date, these
have mostly been in the form of a wide distribution of service delivery guides/booklets as well as broadcast
media announcements to the general public. The envisaged consultations with the various constituencies
(e.g., academia, students, business people, parliamentarians, and research outfits) are not frequent, nor is a
system of ongoing monitoring and feedback in place. GoJ needs to adopt a proactive agenda for promoting
public participation, transparency, and consensus on the salient issues related to reforming the public
sector. Engaging civil society and the private sector is critical to the sustainability of the PSR process, and
this component should be flagged as a priority in succeeding adjustment operations.
(b)    Reform of the judicial sector
Substantial.
Since August 2000, GoJ has launched a broad-based agenda for the administration of justice, set in motion
by the creation of the RCDJ consisting of a number of highly respected figures of the Jordanian
establishment. The reform program undertaken by the RCDJ is advancing at a pace faster than demanded
or expected, and is yielding significant results in several areas.
- Functioning of the judiciary. In less than one year of work, the RCDJ has prepared and presented to the
parliament a number of new pieces of legislation and amendments to existing ones. These pertain to
fostering the independence of the judiciary, streamlining the judicial processes, and providing alternative
means of commercial dispute resolution. Among the main measures for modernization of the judicial
processes is the computerization of the Amman Palace of Justice, which beside providing security and
reliability of infornation would make a tremendous difference in the time required for users to get judicial
decisions ready for implementation (from five weeks with the previous manual system, to one day with the
new equipment and personnel).
-7 -



- Training. The curriculum for judicial training has been finalized, together with the requisite amendments
in the statute for the Judicial Institute.
- Workloads, career development, and financial incentives for the judges. A plan for reduced case load has
been adopted by dividing Amman into five jurisdictions, with five tribunals of first instance. The Amman
Palace will continue as the main Palace of justice of first instance and appeals, and four other tribunals are
to be built in the other districts. This will allow for a better service to the users in terms of proximity, and
will take some of the pressure off the Amman Palace. The RCDJ has proposed measures for improving the
financial situation of the magistrates, and an amount of JD 1.3 million have been allocated to the MoJ to
increase judges' salaries. In addition, a new organization of the profession has been proposed that would
include a new salary scale and an improved retirement scheme. In keeping with the need to alleviate the
workload for the judges, a renewed effort is in place for fresh recruitments. For 2001, 140 new judges
were hired; and the same number expected for 2002 and 2003.
(c) Reform of the civil service institutions
Modest.
As prior action to PSRL 1, a draft new Civil Service By-Law (covering a code of ethics for public
employees, selection criteria, and performance appraisal) was drafted and submitted to the Cabinet. Much
of the preparatory groundwork has already been conducted. However, some modifications and
improvements are awaiting consensus amongst the most-affected ministries, which has led to delays in
implementation. The subsequent government program needs to ensure that the new By-Law is enacted and
operational in FY 2003.
(d) Government restructuring
Modest.
The program has several objectives with different time frames primarily to create organizational structures
capable of sustaining the key reforms. To this end, MoAD has been established to take the lead in
implementing: (a) the new Civil Service ByLaw; (b) productivity improvements and service standards; and
(c) reorganizing the training delivery for civil servants. Another objective is to pursue departmental
reforms in large ministries, such as Education, so as to create a demonstration effect to the rest of the
system for delivering quality public services. For this purpose, the program includes the reorganization of
the Education testing services, which represents a new and important venture into alternate service delivery
mechanisms. The organizational changes to date have yet to materialize into tangible results for the PSR
program.
Additionally, the program emphasizes the rationalization of various entities dealing with government
procurement and investment promotion-as discussed below.
Procurement
Prior actions required the beginning of a design for a single unit for streamlining government procurement
functions, and submission of preliminary plans of actions to the key stakeholders. In 2001-02, the
conditions were for an approval by the Council of Ministers of the plans for a new streamlined organization
responsible for implementing the changes, taking into account the work under the CPAR. A draft law on
procedures for updating governmental purchases has been prepared and is pending approval. This
-8 -



legislation proposes a unified purchase law that includes judging and supervising rules, in addition to the
consolidation of supplies and tender departments.
Investment promotion
Prior actions required designing a single unit streamlining the functions dispersed among four
organizations, and to submit preliminary plans of action to Council of Ministers. 2001-02 was to see a
legislation prepared and approved by the Council of Ministers.
The four organizations being unified include: (a) Jordan Investment Board (JIB), JEDCO (export
promotion); FZC (Free Zones), and JIEC (Industrial Estate). In addition, there are the Vocational Training
Center (VTC), and Jordan Tourism Board (JTB). An Investment Committee has been established for the
purpose, and the umbrella organization (NABICS-tentative name) has been proposed and will be
submitted for legislative approval. The previous four organizations will maintain their status as individual
entities, but their activities will be overseen by NABICS.
(e) Improvements in services to the public
Modest.
The program calls for a establishing a permanent network for improving quality and access to services on
as many fronts as possible and to lay the ground for self-sustaining improvements. Under PSRL 1, beyond
the expansion of services, some departments have already moved beyond work and procedure
simplification. Full-scale re-engineering has been launched in some departments (e.g., Land and Survey,
Income Tax), while others are moving to adopting e-govenmment techniques (Business Registration).
Complementary initiatives have focused on simplifying administrative processes and providing transparent
and reliable information to the general public (e.g., through directories of services, service bureaus, web
sites). Twenty-five such directories have been published to date. And, in several instances, the time lag
between applications and approvals has been significantly reduced. For example, at the Development and
Employment Fund (DEF)--a government agency created in 1989 to provide employment opportunities to
low-income individuals and households--the latest directory of services highlights the reduction in the
required paper work and waiting time that has taken place for the filing and approval of loan applications.
Prior to 2002, the average time required was 60 days compared to 21 days at present. In addition, DEF
management has initiated several user surveys to assess the impact of improved services to the
beneficiaries. This practice of service delivery surveys needs to become more prevalent so as to ascertain
"results on the ground".
The MoSD is entrusted with the task of overseeing several programs addressing the special needs of the
poor-handicapped, homeless youth, orphans, old-age-as well as improving coordination with the NGOs
for delivering specialized needs together with enhancing the client orientation of the welfare system. In this
context, of particular concern for the PSR program is the restructuring of the National Aid Fund (NAF).
Established in 1986, NAF is the major government agency providing monthly cash assistance to
unemployable poor households without an income source. The current state of NAF is in a flux, with a
myriad of financial and management problems. Conservative estimates reflect that the NAF cash
assistance program currently reaches no more than half of the total number of individuals living below the
poverty line. Beside organizational inefficiencies, NAF does not have an information system for record
keeping or a database for progress tracking. The 1999 CAS had urged a clarification of the NAF's
mission, rationalization of its organizational structure, alignment of its financial and administrative
responsibility under a single authority, and strengthening of its administrative capacity together with a
-9-



developed MIS. The GoJ is committed to reforming the NAF, and several proposals-including an
outsourced management contract-are being actively considered.
(f) Financial management and budgetary reform
Negligible.
Because of insufficient institutional capacity of the MoF, limited progress has been made on the gradual
transition toward a result-oriented budgetary allocation system as well as on the MTEF.
FMBR commitments were made very late in the preparation of PSRL-I and consisted of completing or
substantially implementing the "performance budgeting project" then underway through GTZ. The GoJ
requested the Bank for further technical assistance on the subject as early as August 2001; such technical
assistance was provided from November 2001-January 2002.
However, the basic steps for MTEF (program structures, functional expenditures classification,
expenditure forecasting, integrated capital budget, etc.) have been progressing at a very slow pace (in terms
of output definitions capable of supporting program structuring). A large part of the problem is present
practice of dual budgets and the pervasive lack of the administrative capabilities to embark upon an
undertaking that requires a substantial overhaul of outdated accounting procedures and methods being
followed in some of the line ministries, several implementing agencies, and all the governorates. Further,
the "performance budgeting" approach, before its reformulation into the Budget Reform Project pursuant
to the Bank's technical assistance, was much too ambitious given insufficient higher-level commitment for
reforming and upgrading the present state of FMBR instruments and technical capacity in Jordan.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Net present value/economic rate of return is not applicable to adjustment loans.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return are not calculated for adjustment operations.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest
Irrespective of the limited capacity enhancements for public sector financial management and delays in
civil service reform, notable progress has been made toward reforning the judicial sector, government
restructuring, and in the institutional arrangements for improving the delivery of public services. The
creation of RCDJ and the establishment of MoAD (together with their respective mandates) are important
organizational set-ups in their own right, paving the way for subsequent incentives and processes for
capacity building in the public sector.
These measures are expected to complement the institution building already achieved under the ERDL
program that has focused on creating an enabling environment for an outward-oriented growth led by the
private sector-evidenced by changes in the trade regime, revamping of the overall legal and regulatory
framework for business (from patents to finance), special investment promotion initiatives such as the
Aqaba Special Economic Zone, and an efficient and transparent privatization program.
- 10 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There is no such factor significant to the implementation requirements of the PSRL 1 program.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Expression of political will at the top level for reform has not yet sufficiently "trickled down" to the line
agencies. The government's implementation plan needs to define how reforms can be scaled up from
discrete actions and individual agencies to program and government-wide results.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PSRL program is in its very nature heavily-institutional and process oriented. These reforms are
correspondingly of longer gestation and require consistent and across-the-board capacity building.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
PSRL 1 is characterized by a very high degree of government commitment to the reform program, but the
GoJ will have to contend with two main challenges.
First, the next phase of reforms is likely to encounter resistance from established bureaucratic interests and
entrenched traditions. Extra efforts will be required to elicit sufficient conviction amongst key officials on
the inter-linkages of the PSRL components as well as toward consensus building amongst various
constituencies outside of the government.
Second, short-term fiscal requirements may hinder the needed attention to an accelerated implementation of
the program. Importantly, public sector debt remains high in Jordan. Sustained increases in
development-related expenditures could jeopardize debt sustainability unless financed by own revenues
rather than privatization proceeds and increased foreign grants.
The terrorist attack of September 11, 2001, and the subsequent international events have brought a new
clod on economic prospects in Jordan (as elsewhere). As of end-2001, however, it appears that Jordan
should be able to ride out the shock by only a relatively small draw down of external reserves-owing to
steady exports and remittances which (unlike in the Gulf War) are expected to remain buoyant. Tourism
receipts are not likely to decline much more from their already depressed level stemming from the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. (Tourism in Jordan has a hair-trigger sensitivity to political developments in
the region). Foreign investment is likely to be on hold until the situation stabilizes, but economic growth
for the year is still likely to be close to the envisaged 3.5 percent. No long-term economic damage is
anticipated, therefore, unless the international uncertainties continue in 2002. In that eventuality, the
impact on Jordan would be much more severe for 2002, and would include among other things: (a) a
contraction in reserves from the current level of seven months of imports (a reduction from this level would
be considered low for Jordan because of the dollarization of the Jordanian economy and a large number of
- 11 -



US$-denominated deposits held by residents); and (b) a reduction in the growth rate to 2 percent or
less-entailing a decline in per capita income.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Structural impediments to growth are being addressed through the Bank's diagnostic ESW report: The
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Sources of Growth, MNSED, October 2001.
The NSETP (2001-2006) provides the foundation for investment programs, and for continued external
support and technical assistance.
PSRLs 2-3 will concentrate on deepening and expanding the reform efforts.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory.
The program is marked by close Bank-IMF collaboration, ensuring on-track performance of the
macroeconomic targets.
Given the complexity and of the program, the Bank team has been continuously monitoring the
implementation progress-leading to appropriate diagnoses of the emerging problems and then making
concerted efforts for mid-stream corrections.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.
-12-



8. Lessons Learned
Programmatic lending serves as a useful vehicle for economy-wide reforms. Nevertheless, with a complex
operation the size of PSRL, a frank and informal dialogue and communication at all stages of the programs
becomes all the more crucial for the Bank and its country counterparts.
There is a need for the creation of a Steering Committee at the Cabinet Level with a mandate to oversee and
monitor PSRL's progress, particularly on the improved delivery of public services as well as for pursuing a
proactive communications strategy targeted to the intended beneficiaries. In this regard, the GoJ has
recently established such a steering committee headed by the Minister of Planning and includes as its
members the Ministers of Justice, Administrative Development, Finance, Telecommunications and
Information Technology, and Industry ands Trade. The committee has been given the mandate to oversee
and monitor the public sector reform program.
Progress toward MTEF and the integration of investment and current budgets within the MoF should be
accompanied by commensurate budget preparation capabilities in the line ministries. Parallel efforts need
to be made within the MoP for the formulation and monitoring of the PIP (critical to the implementation of
NSETP).
It is essential to develop M&E capacity-for evaluating the both the progress of policies and programs
underpinning the entire reform program.
PSRLs should not to be viewed as a medium-term and time-bound external support; instead, as one with a
perennial horizon--requiring a shift from an approach that focuses mostly on lending toward a one that
emphasizes policy dialogue underpinned by economic and sector work. The program already relies on the
GoJ's own institutions and administrative structures; hence, making institutional development in Jordan the
crucial for the success of its own PSR program.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Attached letter from the MoP, dated 7 August 2002.
E1
Letter.tif
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
OED, in partnership with the Islamic Development Bank, will be conducting a Country Assistance
Evaluation for Jordan in FY03.
- 13-



ID#218,From:202-473-8787,       To:World Bank,                28AUG02,01:43,Page002of003
RUG 28 '02 01:40PM WORLD BANK MNIDR 202 477 0432                         P.1/2
; -   TIlE HASHEMITE KINGDOMa                                               ib    UI    .L4iI
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
AMMAN                                                        __
iRef.N  o.X                                                        .......... . ................  ...... .  ...
Date .7-                                                                          C4
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,. .- , , , C 9g
Mr. Joseph Saba
Director, Middl&East Department            -         %;,            t 
Middle East and North Africa Region
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington D.C., 20433
U.S.A.
Subject: Draft Copy of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) on the
Public Sector Reform Loan-I
LA
H             Dear Mr. Saba,
3                     IThank you for your E-mail letter dated 12, June, 2002, with its enclosure
a draft copy of the implementation completion report mentioned above.
Please be infonned that after careful review of the draft report, the
relevant Jordanian institutions have accepted in principle the overall assessment
of the above-mentioned report. However, some comments on the draft report
bave been registered by those institutions and they can be summarized as
follows:
1. The last fourth sentence of paragraph 6.1, page 17, indicates a
contraction in reserves to a dangerously-low five months of imports.
In this regard, a three- month level of reserves is considered sufficient
according to Intermational standards. Therefore, Jordan is better off
than this phrase implies.
2. The second sentence of paragraph 8, page 19, states, "There is a need
for the creation of a steering committee at the Cabinet level, with a
mandate to oversee and monitor PSRs progress." In this regard, I am
pleased to inform you that a steering committee has been established.
This committee is headed by the Minister of Planning and includes in
its membership the Ministers of Justice, Administrative Development,



ID#218,From:202-473-8787,      To: World Bank,               280UG02,01:43,PageOO3ofOO3
RUG 28 '02 01:41PM WORLD BRNK MNIDR 202 477 0432                   ;   :'>P.2/2"
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                       4.0tLhJI zn^;     jia'g
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING.
AMMAN                                                       __
R ef.N o.     ......................................................................
D ate  ................ ..................................      ............ .............aN
..................
Finance, Telecommunications and Information Technology, as well
as Industry and Trade. The committee has been given the mandate to
oversee and monitor the public sector reform program.
3 . The fourth sentence of paragraph 3, page 6, states, " Bank assistance
to Jordan in this period was articulated in three CASs (1993, 1995,
and 1999)...". In this regard; it is worth noting that the Bank
supported structural reforms in Jordan through the Industry and
Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL) in 1990 for the amount of
US$ (150) million, the Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) in
1993 for the amount of US$ (80) million, and the Agricultural Sector
Adjustmnent Loan (ASAL) in 1994 for the amount of US$ (80)
million. The centerpiece of the Bank's assistance under the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved in 1995 through CAS-I (1996-
1999) included ERDLs (I- III), and the current CAS-I1 (2000-2001)
included PSRLs (I-I3).
I should appreciate it very much if you would authorize the concerned
department at the Bank to incorporate these comments into the final report
document.
Please accept my high esteem and consideration.
Sincerl  or
Bassem I Awadallah
Minister of Planning



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
[Not generally applicable to adjustment loans, but the framework has been adapted and/or
imputed to the progress achieved under the current operation-PSRL 1]
Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix        Projected in MOP     Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
High GDP growth         Taking full advantage of  Economic growth has   Despite the difficult
supported by a robust   the integration with the  begun to pick up despite  regional situation, the
economic performance.   global economy, and     continuing regional     outlook for 2002 remains
providing a more open and instability. Real GDP  favorable. Continued
favorable investment    growth rate at around 4  strong export performance,
environment.            percent has been sustained together with additional
for the last seven quarters  stimulus from spending
up to 2001Q3. Private   under the NSETP, is
investment in non-      expected to accelerate real
residential constructions  GDP growth to more than
appears to be improving,  5 percent.
and gains are being made
in new export production
(mostly textiles and
garments from the QIZs
and pharmaceuticals) with
a rise of around 19 percent
in current dollar terms for
the first three quarters of
2001. And, the challenge
of poverty reduction is
being addressed through
Fundamental structural  Provision to households  SPP and under the NSETP.
changes in the core public easier access to services  In the context of improved
sector, particularly    directly increasing real  provision and delivery of
institutional capacity and  incomes. Increased  public services, efficiency
the quality of public   productivity in the public  gains are being achieved
services with the key aims sector would have an  through publication and
of: (a) strengthening   immediate positive impact dissemination of the
private investment; (b)  on growth, given the   availability of these
diversifying the economy; relative size of the sector. services to the businesses
(c) achieving closer    Last but not least, the  and households. However,
integration with the global benefits to the poor would evidence on impact needs
economy; (d)            also be substantial by  to be obtained by
strengthening the       improving their access to  the ertaining the views of
country's human capital  key public services and by thibeneficiaries (through
base; and (e) ensuring  the program's focus on  prveys, etce dwll
surveys, etc.), and will
better access to services  justice, health, and  require continuous
for citizens particularly the education.        monitoring and
poor.                                           adjustments.
-14 -



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix        Projected in MOP      Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
(a) Communications      Promoting public        Efforts are being made by
strategy            participation, transparency, MoAD toward building
and consensus on the    public awareness of the
salient issues in PSR by  reforms. But, to date,
establishing two-way    these have mostly been in
communications channels the form of a wide
with the population, as  distribution of service
well as initiating a    delivery guides/booklets as
dialogue with specific  well as broadcast media
interest groups such as  announcements to the
public sector employees,  general public. The
students, business people, envisaged consultations
parliamentarians, and the  with the various
media. Building on public constituencies (e.g.,
opinion research, and   academia, students,
embarking upon a set of  business people,
coordinated activities (e.g., parliamentarians, and
awareness building, public research outfits) are not
outreach and education,  frequent, nor is a system of
research and training)  ongoing monitoring and
based on clear goals, a  feedback in place. GoJ
proactive agenda, and a  needs to adopt a proactive
system of ongoing       agenda for promoting
monitoring and feedback. public participation,
transparency, and
consensus on the salient
issues related to reforming
the public sector.
Engaging civil society and
the private sector is critical
to the sustainability of the
PSR process, and this
component should be
flagged as a priority in
succeeding adjustment
operations.
(b) Reform of the iudicial Reforms to include: (a)  Since August 2000, GoJ  Enactment of an arbitration
sector              modernizing the legal   has launched a broad-   cdent ru    th delays
framework for the       based agenda for the    in the judicial process,
- Commercial dispute    organization and        administration of justice,  notably in matters of
resolution              functioning of the      set in motion by the    cotabl itigatiof
- Modernization of the  judiciary; (b) improving  creation of the RCDJ   commercial litigation.
the teaching methods and  consisting of a number of  t oduction of procedura
training of the magistrates; highly respected figures of cm
- Incentives for judges    c    v                 e                     amendments to relevant
C,  (c) improved            the Jordanian..
-Trainingand            compensation, streamlined establishment. The reform laws(codeofcivl and
professional standards  workload, and career    program undertaken by the commercial procedures).
development for         RCDJ is advancing at a
- 15-



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix       Projected in MOP      Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
magistrates and judges; (d) pace faster than demanded Adoption and initial
systematic upgrading of  or expected, and is   implementation of the
and dissemination of legal yielding significant results Royal Scientific Society's
information; (e)        in several areas.      study on the modernization
generalized court and case                     of the judiciary.
management, with vastly  (a) Functioning of the  Provision of adequate
improved access to     judiciary. In less than one budgetary of    (ato
decisions and records; and year of work, the RCDJ  budgetary resources: (a) to
(f) introduction of a   has prepared and presented (bo to hire an additional 80
country-wide court and  to the parliament a number judges  adoptiona 80
casemanaemet sytem of new pieces of legislation Judges. Adoption by the
case management system  ofnwpee      flgsainGovernment of a new plan
to promote equity in access and amendments to  aiment estab    new a
to the judicial system and  existing ones. These  aimed at estabishing a
to reduce delays, errors,  pertain to fostering the  flexible and evolutionary
and costs to the users.  independence of the    salary scale and an
judiciary, streamlining the improved pension scheme
judicial processes, and  forjudges.
providing alternative   Amendment of the law
means of commercial    regulating the National
dispute resolution. Among Judicial Institute.
measures for
moderizaton o the Introduction of new
modernization of the  courses on business law
judicial processes is the  broadly defined and on
computerization of the       y
Amman Palace of Justice,  e 
which beside providing  Adoption of a systematic
security and reliability of  training program for
judges and auxiliaries of
information would make a . 
tremendous difference in  justice.
the time required for users
to get judicial decisions
ready for implementation
(from five weeks with the
previous manual system, to
one day with the new
equipment and personnel).
(b) Training. The
curTiculum for judicial
training is being finalized,
together with the requisite
amendments in the statute
for the Judicial Institute.
(c) Workloads, career
development, and financial
incentives for the judges.
A plan for reduced case
load has been adopted by
dividing Amman into five
jurisdictions, with five
tribunals of first instance.
-16-



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix        Projected in MOP      Estimate as of January   Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
The Amman Palace will
continue as the main
Palace of justice of first
instance and appeals, and
four other tribunals are to
be built in the other
districts. This will allow
for a better service to the
users in terms of
proximity, and will take
some of the pressure off
the Amman Palace. The
RCDJ has proposed
measures for improving
the financial situation of
the magistrates, and an
amount of JDl.3 million
have been allocated to the
MoJ to increase judges'
salaries. In addition, a new
organization of the
profession has been
proposed that would
include a new salary scale
and an improved
retirement scheme. In
keeping with the need to
alleviate the workload for
the judges, a renewed
effort is in place for fresh
recruitments. For 2001,
140 new judges were
hired; and the same
number expected for 2002
and 2003.
(c) Reform of civil     Focusing on: (a) rewriting  As prior action to PSRL 1,
service institutions  the Civil Service ByLaw,  a draft new Civil Service  Cabinet approval of new
so as to pave the way for a By-Law (covering a code  implementing regulations)
- New civil service by law  new relationship between  of ethics for public  containing: (a) a new code
- Management of civil   the State and its        employees, selection    of ethics; (b) provisions for
service                 employees-in which       criteria, and performance  the meritocratic selection
- Pay Reform            evaluation and promotion  appraisal) was drafted and   top civil selection
are fair, transparent, and  submitted to the Cabinet  of top civil servants, (ii)
based on merit and one in  Much of the preparatory  improved performance,
which responsive service is groundwork has already appraisal and promotion
rewarded and poor       been conducted. However, procedures.
performance leads to    some modifications and
dismissal; and (b)       improvements are awaiting Finalization of job
improving the incentives  consensus amongst the  descriptions (duties,
framework.               most-affected ministries,  reportlng arrangements,
which has led to delays in and qualifications) for 58
- 17-



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix        Projected in MOP      Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
implementation. The     departments (covering the
subsequent PSRL needs to great majority of Civil
ensure that the new By-  Servants). Online posting
Law is enacted and      of all civil service
operational in FY 2003.  vacancies and the queue of
all eligible applicants.
Agreement on a system to
monitor, test and adapt
new appraisal and
promotion procedures.
Creation and online
posting of a
comprehensive civil
service database.
Completion of first cohort
of managerial skills
upgrading (English and
computers).
Formulation of a terms of
reference for a
comprehensive study of
pay reform.
(d) Government          Pursuing three objectives: The program has several  Cabinet approval of
restructuring       (a) an early establishment  objectives with different  MoAD with sufficient
of organizational structures time frames. Primarily, to budget and competent staff
- Creation of MoAD and  that are capable of      create organizational   to oversee institutional
civil service           sustaining and furthering  structures capable of  reform and to manage the
- Procurement           some of the key reform   sustaining the key reforms. civil service.
organizations           tracks under way; (b)    To this end, MoAD has
orInvestment promotion  relatively-ambitious     been established to take the Formulation of a terms of
-ctivitiestmen          departmental reforms in  lead in implementing: (a)  reference for a study on a
activities              big ministries such as  the new Civil Service    centralized human resource
Education which would   ByLaw; (b) productivity  information system.
Ministry of Education   not only help modernize  improvements and service
- Testing center        activities in the public  standards; and (c)
- Teachers' appraisal unit  sector, but would also have reorganizing the training
an exemplary character vis delivery for civil servants.
a vis the rest of the system; Another objective is to
and (c) rationalizing   pursue departmental
present structures and  reforms in large ministries,
operations so as to correct such as Education, so as to
what have been some     create a demonstration
inefficient arrangements,  effect to the rest of the
and to reach an         system for delivering
organizational set-up   quality public services.
capable of much more    For this purpose, the
rapid self-analysis and  program includes the
adaptation than presently is reorganization of the
- 18-



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix       Projected in MOP      Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
the case.               Education testing services,
which represents a new
and important venture into
alternate service delivery
mechanisms. The
organizational changes to
date have yet to materialize
into tangible results for the
PSR program.
Additionally, the program
emphasizes the
rationalization of various
entities dealing with
government procurement
and investment
promotion-as discussed
below.
Procurement
Prior actions required the
beginning of a design for a
single unit for streamlining
government procurement
functions, and submission
of preliminary plans of
actions to the key
stakeholders. In 2001-02,
the conditions were for an
approval by the Council of
Ministers of the plans for a
new streamlined
organization responsible
for implementing the
changes, taking into
account the work under the
CPAR. A draft law on
procedures for updating
governmental purchases
has been prepared and is
pending approval. This
legislation proposes a
unified purchase law that
includes judging and
supervising rules, in
addition to the
consolidation of supplies
and tender departments.
-19-



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix        Projected in MOP     Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
Investment promotion
Prior actions required
designing a single unit
streamlining the functions
dispersed among four
organizations, and to
submit preliminary plans
of action to Council of
Ministers. 2001-02 was to
see a legislation prepared
and approved by the
Council of Ministers.
The four organizations
being unified include: (a)
Jordan Investment Board
(JIB), JEDCO (export
promotion); FZC (Free
Zones), and JIEC
(Industrial Estate). In
addition, there are the
Vocational Training Center
(VTC), and Jordan
Tourism Board (JTB). An
Investment Committee has
been established for the
purpose, and the umbrella
organization (NABICS-
tentative name) has been
proposed and will be
submitted for legislative
approval. The previous
four organizations will
retain their status as
individual entities, but
their activities will be
overseen by NABICS.
(e) Improvements in    Immediate objectives     The program calls for a  Simplification of processes
services to the public  consisting of rapid and  establishing a permanent  in 15 oenet
tangible results in     network for improving   departmerntLnc
- Simplification of public  improving service delivery quality and access to  service delivery surveys in
service procedures      on as many fronts as    services on as many fronts five departments where
- Transparent information  possible (ranging from  as possible and to lay the re hepbeen pre
on public services      health and education to  ground for self-sustaining  therefhations s
- Departmental front    property registration and  improvements. Under  simplifications.
offiDeparmenalvfront service all matters pertaining to  PSRL 1, beyond the  Publication of public
offices delivering services compliance with identity  expansion of services,  service directories for 33
to the public           papers and taxes), and in  some departments have  departments.
so doing, laying the    already moved beyond
groundwork for further  work and procedure
- 20 -



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix       Projected in MOP      Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
self-sustaining         simplification. Full-scale  Launch of e-government
improvements.          re-engineering has been  initiative through the
launched in some        creation of a Program
In the medium-term,     departments (e.g., Land  Management Unit, the
creating a permanent    and Survey, Income Tax), publication of a r eport
network for improving the while others are moving to highlighting the vision for
quality and access to   adopting e-government   the initiative, the drafting
services; this network to  techniques (Business  of a blueprint-roadmap,
consist of line civil   Registration).          construction of at least 20
servants and to take the  Complementary initiatives community IT centers, and
form of task forces whose  have focused on      approval of a law
membership would change simplifying administrative authorizing electronic
according to specific   processes and providing  transactions.
services being examined.  transparent and reliable
Complementary initiatives information to the general
(e.g., widely-distributed  public (e.g., through
brochures, telephone data  directories of services,
bank services, and      service bureaus, web sites).
websites)-covering the  Twenty-five such
whole of government-    directories have been
supplied services in the  published to date. And, in
medium term-to focus on several instances, the time
ensuring transparency, full lag between applications
information, and equal  and approvals has been
access for the          significantly reduced. For
beneficiaries.          example, DEF's latest
directory of services
highlights the reduction in
the required paper work
and waiting time that has
taken place for the filing
and approval of loan
applications. Prior to 2002,
the average time required
was 60 days compared to
21 days at present. In
addition, DEF
management has initiated
several user surveys to
assess the impact of
improved services to the
beneficiaries. This
practice of service delivery
surveys needs to become
more prevalent so as to
ascertain "results on the
ground".
The MoSD is entrusted
with the task of overseeing
several programs
addressing the special
-21 -



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix        Projected in MOP     Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
needs of the poor-
handicapped, homeless
youth, orphans, old-age-
as well as improving
coordination with the
NGOs for delivering
specialized needs together
with enhancing the client
orientation of the welfare
system. In this context, of
particular concern for the
PSR program is the
restructuring of NAF.
Established in 1986, NAF
is the major government
agency providing monthly
cash assistance to
unemployable poor
households without an
income source. The
current state of NAF is in a
flux, with a myriad of
financial and management
problems. Conservative
estimates reflect that the
NAF cash assistance
program currently reaches
no more than half of the
total number of individuals
living below the poverty
line. Beside organizational
inefficiencies, NAF does
not have an information
system for record keeping
or a database for progress
tracking. The 1999 CAS
had urged a clarification of
the NAF's mission,
rationalization of its
organizational structure,
alignment of its financial
and administrative
responsibility under a
single authority, and
strengthening of its
administrative capacity
together with a developed
MIS. The GoJ is
committed to reforming
the NAF, and several
proposals-including an
outsourced management
- 22 -



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix        Projected in MOP      Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
contract-are being
actively considered.
(f) Financial          In the first phase,      Because of insufficient  Commitment of MoF to
management and      developing a program-   institutional capacity of the prepare aggregate medium-
budgetary reforms   structured budget and   MoF, limited progress has term (3-5 years)
planning for the MTEF at been made on the gradual expenditure projections, to
the center and in       transition toward a result-  be approved by Cabinet
ministries. Parallel    oriented budgetary      and included in the circular
reforms in financial    allocation system as well  for the 2003 budget.
management, in keeping  as on the MTEF. FMBR
with the findings of the  commitments were made  Commitment of MoF to
CFAA and CPAR.          very late in the preparation specify the initial
of PSRL-I and consisted of expenditure ceilings for
completing or substantially each ministry and agency,
implementing the        consistent with revenue
"performance budgeting  projections, beginning with
project" then underway  the 2003 budget.
through GTZ. The GoJ
requested the Bank for  Creation of an
further technical assistance interministerial mechanism
on the subject as early as  to improve revenue
August 2001; such       forecasting.
technical assistance was  Establishment of a
provided from November  committee within MoP to
2001 -January 2002.     coordinate projects in
However, the basic steps  different sectors.
for MTEF (program
structures, functional  Design of a comprehensive
expenditures classification,
expenditure forecasting,  database for all projects
integrated capital budget,  and definition of a work
etc.) have been progressing
at a very slow pace (in  Decision to launch a pilot
terms of output definitions exercise for results-based
capable of supporting   bd
program structuring). A  iungtin  n the
large part of the problem is the Ministry of Health.
the present practice of dual
budgets and pervasive lack
of the administrative
capabilities to embark
upon an undertaking that
requires a substantial
overhaul of outdated
accounting procedures and
methods being followed in
some of the line ministries,
several implementing
agencies, and all the
governorates. Further, the
- 23 -



Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix       Projected in MOP      Estimate as of January  Actual/Latest Estimate
2002
"performance budgeting"
approach, before its
reformulation into the
Budget Reform Project
pursuant to the Bank's
technical assistance, was
much too ambitious given
insufficient higher-level
commitment for reforming
and upgrading present state
of FMBR instruments and
technical capacity in
Jordan.
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
US$120 million as a single tranche LIBOR-based Single Currency (Variable-Spread) Loan.
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic costs and benefits are not calculated for adjustment loans.
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Year 2001
Identification/Preparation              4    Economists                         S             S
Appraisal/
Negotiation
Supervision                  4   Public Sector Specialists
I   Lawyer
1   Communications Specialist
Supervision
ICR
Year 2002                    1    Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  |                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Year 2001                                77.0                       397.8
Identification/Preparation
Supervision
ICR                                       9.5                        46.5
Total                                    86.5                       444.3
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
3Sector Policies                        O H   *SUOM      O N  O NA
N Physical                              O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
N Financial                             OH    OSUOM      O N   * NA
N Institutional Development             0 H   O SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
FS Environmental                        O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
Z Gender                          OH   OSUOM       O N  * NA
N Other (Please specify)          0 H   O SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
Communications strategy
J Private sector development            0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
F Public sector management              0 H   O SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
[E Other (Please specify)               0 H   O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Financial management
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS Ou OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS*S         Otu   OHU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       Otu    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
X Preparation                                       O HS * S     O u    O HU
F Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
z Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S     0  U   0 HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS OU OHU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- Country Assistance Strategy for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (Report No. 1 9890-JO), November
12, 1999.
- President's Report and Recommendation for the First Public Sector Reform Loan (Report No. 7455-JO),
May 21, 2001.
- Complete project documentation/reports on file.
- The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. Sources of Growth, MNSED, October 2001.
- USAID. Poverty Alleviation for a Stronger Jordan: Comprehensive National Strategy. 2001.
Annex 8. List of officials from the Government and agencies, and others, interviewed during mission:
January 6-17, 2002
Attached.
Annex 8.doc
- 30 -



Annex 8. List of officials f;-om the Government and agencies, and others, interviewed during mission:
January 6-17, 2002
GoJ
Ministry of Planning
H.E. Dr. Bassem I. Awadallah, Minister
Dr. Abderrazaq Bani Hani, Secretary General
Dr. Khalaf Al-Hadid, Coordinator, Public Sector Reform & National Insurance System Projects
Mr. Nasser Shraideh, Director, Technical Support Unit
Mr. Omar Al-Rafie, Pilot Projects Coordinator, Social Productivity Program Unit
Dr. Ziad Bakhit, Director, Restructuring of NAF
Ministry of Finance
H.E. Dr. Michel Marto, Minister
Dr. Moh'd S. Abu-Hammour, Secretary General
Mr. Ibrahim Al-Dwairi, Director General, Budget Department
Dr. Dieter Kattermann, Team Leader, Financial Management Reform in Jordan, Jordanian-German
Technical Cooperation (GTZ), General Budget Department
Ministry of Administrative Development
H.E. Dr. Mohammad Thneibat, Minister of State
Dr. Jamal Hayajneh, Section Chief, Studies and Job Classification, Civil Service Bureau
Ministry of Justice
Mr. Nazim Aref, Secretary General
Ministry of Social Development
H.E. Mrs. Tamam El Goul, Minister
Mr. Omar Humzeh, Director of Monitoring and Social Security
Ms. Nawal Huwidi
Section Chief, Administration and Training
Autonomous/Semi-Autonomous Agencies
- 31 -



Jordan Investment Board
Mrs. Reem Badran, Director General
Development and Employment Fund
Mr. Marzouq Hadid, Director General
National Aid Fund
Dr. Adel Shamailel, Director General
Mr. Jamal Al-Muhaisen
Assistant Director General
NGOs/Private Sector/Media/Other
Jordan River Foundation
Ms. Maha Khatib, Director General
Jordan Investment and Finance Bank
Mr. Rajai Kossous, Executive Manager, Investment and Marketing
The Jordan Times
Ms. Dina Lahlou, Contributing Journalist
USAID
Mr. Roy J. Grohs, Regional Economic Advisor
Mr. Khalid A. Al-Naif, Regional Economic and Finance Advisor
Consultants
Dr. Trevor Robinson
IBIS Consultants Limited
- 32 -



