Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7455-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION
TO
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
FIRST PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
May 21, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 2001)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD = US$
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.709
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACIB          Administrative Control and Inspection Bureau
ASAL          Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBJ           Central Bank of Jordan
CFAA         Country Financial and Accounting Assessment
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Report
DDSR         Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EFF           Econornic and Financial Framework
EPC           Economic and Privatization Commission
ERDL          Economic Reform Development Loans
ESAL          Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
EU            European Union
GoJ           Government of Jordan
GST           General Sales Tax
GTZ           German Cooperation Agency
ITPAL         Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
JD           Jordanian Dinar
JIPA          Jordanian Institute for Public Administration
JTQ           Jordan Telecommunications Corporation
MoAD/CS       Ministry of Admninistrative Development and Civil Service
MoF           Ministry of Finance
MTEF          Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NGO           Non-Government Organization
PSR           Public Sector Reform
PSRL          Public Sector Reform Loan
RCJD         Royal Commission for the Development of the Judiciary
SOE           State Owned Enterprises
UNCITRAL   United Nations Commission of International Trade Law
WTO           World Trade Organization
Vice-President:             Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Mustapha Nabli
Country Director:          Joseph Saba
Task Team Leader:           Fran,ois Lacasse



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY ...........................................I
PART I: THE ECONOMIC SITUATION ............................................1
A.      Overview and rationale ...........................................1I
B.      Background ............................................2
C.      Concerted IMF, Bank and Donor Support ...........................................S5
PART II: THE PROGRAM  SUPPORTED BY PSRL-I ............................................6
A. Background and situation                                       .6
B.      Public Sector Reform: the present plan and its implementation strategy           .8
C.   Key Components of the Ongoing Reform Program .11
C. 1. Communications strategy .11
C.2. Reform of the Judicial Sector .12
C.3. Reform of civil service institutions .15
C.4. Government restructuring .17
C.5. Improvements in services to the public .18
C. 6. Financial management and budgetary reforms .20
PART III: THE PROPOSED LOAN ...........................................                                  21
A.      Loan rationale and country assistance strategy ..................   ......................... 21
B.      Fiscal Impact of the Reforms ........................................... 23
C.      Disbursement and Auditing ...........................................                    23
PART IV: RECOMMENDATION ...........................................                                      24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I      Policy Action Matrix for the main components of public sector reform
Annex II     CAS annex B8: Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Annex Em     CAS annex B8 LEC
Annex IV     Jordan at a glance
Annex V      Jordan Key Economic Indicators
Annex VI     Letter of Development Policy
MAP IBRD 29234



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Amount:              US$120 million
Terms:               LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan (VSL: Variable Spread Loan)
Loan Objectives:     This programmatic loan is the first in a planned series of three Public
Sector Reform Loans (PSRLs). The program will support Jordan by
providing fast-disbursing external financing to meet anticipated gaps
originating from its fiscal needs, while supporting fundamental structural
changes in its core public sector. The loan aims to strengthen public
institutional capacity and the quality of public services; key objectives are
to strengthen private investment, diversify the economy, achieve closer
integration with the global economy, strengthen the country's human
capital base, and ensure better access to services for citizens particularly
the poor.
The program builds on a solid record of past reforms and achievements
since 1996. Major economic shocks in the early 1990s necessitated the
achievement of fundamental shifts towards: (a) a private sector-led
economy; (b) a diversified export-led growth path; (c) greater investment
in traded goods and services; (d) a more resilient economy less prone to
regional economic shocks; and (e) protecting the poor in the adjustment
process. The Government of Jordan has successfully implemented far-
reaching reforms supported by the World Bank, the International Monetary
Fund and other donors in energy and agriculture, reduced food subsidies,
improved targeted assistance to the poor, improved trade policy and
customs administration, deregulated domestic and foreign investment
deregulation, banking and financial sectors, and privatization
(telecommunications, transport, energy, water and other sectors). As a
result, growth is beginning to pick up despite continued regional economic
shocks, exports are more diversified, the private sector is replacing
government as a source of economic activity, and poverty has been
reduced.



ii
The thrust of reforms continues, with ongoing privatization, and a wide-
ranging legislative program designed to revamp key aspects of economic
life from banking and financial markets to competition law and customs.
The Government's cross-cutting reforms aim to achieve close integration
with global markets and to establish an investment-friendly and efficient
business environment. To this end, Jordan has joined the WTO, and is
finalizing signed commercial treaties with the EU and the USA.
Building on this overall reform strategy, the Jordanian public-sector
reform supported by the proposed loan is wide-ranging, addresses directly
the quality and accessibility of services to households and businesses, and
enjoys wide and solid political backing. This program is being
implemented along several tracks: judicial reform is being led by a Royal
Commission for the Development of the Judiciary; the e-government
initiative falls under the responsibility of the Minister for Post and
Telecommunication; the other public sector reforms (civil service, quality
of and access to services, government restructuring, etc.) are led by the
Minister of State for Administrative Development. In each track, the
responsibility for implementation is thus clearly attributed and these
parallel initiatives are being coordinated at the highest level.
Loan Description:     The Loan supports these multi-faceted reforms. By providing fiscal support,
the proposed loan would reduce the risks of delays and interruption in a
difficult and lengthy process which is being carried out in an inherently
shock-prone economic and political environment. It would improve the
level and quality of public services to better position Jordan to attract foreign
and domestic investment and to improve services for all citizens. This
comes out clearly from the importance given to regulatory reforms and to
judicial reform. In both cases the purpose is to improve the stability and
predictability of the business environment. The proposed loan would also
further the Government of Jordan's economic strategy which seeks to
benefit from the increasing forces of globalization by positioning Jordan as
an efficient platform for more human resource-intensive exports of goods
and service. The loan would also help the Government improve services
to households in areas such as health and education, property registration,
and all matters pertaining to compliance from identity papers to taxes. The
whole program will require substantial changes in the arrangements for
supplying public services. A new civil service law is being prepared
which would improve the public sector's access to the talent pool,
reinforce accountability, and instill a more managerial approach.
Simultaneously, the training functions for civil servants are being
reorganized and reoriented, the computerization of operations is being
accelerated; procedures are being simplified and the cost in terms of time
and paper reduced; and the government's business processes are being re-
engineered. In the process, the access of the poor to key government
services, such as education and health, would also be improved.



iii
Benefits:             The initiatives supported by the Loan would further the economic strategy of
promoting high GDP growth supported by a robust export performance.
This strategy is based on taking full advantage of the recently signed treaties
and providing a more open and favorable environment for investment. By
providing households with easier access to services, the policy package
supported by the loan would directly increase real incomes, enable faster
progress in implementing the human resources-based development strategy,
and assist in promoting the political liberalization that has already provided
a democratic process for conflict resolution, thus contributing to social and
political stability. Even more directly, the increased productivity sought in
the public sector would have an immediate positive impact on growth, given
the relative size of this sector. Expanding the role of the private sector is an
explicit aim of the reform program, both through the privatization program
that has been underway for the past four years for state-owned enterprises
and through this new program which involves the more systematic use of
market mechanisms in the provision of what have been previously
considered core public sector services. The benefits to the poor would also
be substantial by improving their access to key public services and by the
reform's focus on justice, health and education.
Risks:                Two risks are present. The main risk external to the public sector reform
program itself is political and associated with reversals in the regional peace
process. Macroeconomic stability may be adversely affected by external
shocks in terms of possible adverse capital movements or changes in the
external demand for Jordanian goods and services.  The proposed
programmatic series of Public Sector Reform loans reduces this risk and
complements the actions of the IMF by providing additional budgetary room
for maneuver to a government embarking upon public sector reform, a set of
changes which demands time and persistence.
The second risk is inherent in the depth and comprehensive nature of the
public sector reforms initiated. Such programs are difficult everywhere
because of the complexity and diversity of the operations and processes
targeted and because public sector arrangements reflect social and political
equilibria which are imperfectly understood and whose modifications often
have unforeseen consequences.  Also, public-sector reform  demands
continuous efforts over a long period, a difficult feat for any political
system. In Jordan, it also requires a break with the past when the public
sector was sometimes used as an instrument for social policy and stability.
The programmatic frame for this loan, together with the expected
collaboration of other donors, can reduce this risk.



iv
The Government has maintained a delicate balance between economic
reforms and political stability since 1989. The Government's appreciation of
the political feasibility of the reforms has been factored into the program
(e.g., in the phasing of reforms), as exemplified by the very high level of
ownership present over the past year and by its focus on service
improvement rather than downsizing, thereby reducing risks to program
implementation.
Disbursement:        The loan would be disbursed in one tranche of US$120 million.
Financing Plan:      N/A
Environment category:  C
Poverty Category:    Not Applicable



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A FIRST PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
1.    I submit for your approval a proposed loan to The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for US$120
million for the first Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL-I). This programmatic loan will support Jordan by
providing fast-disbursing external financing to meet anticipated gaps originating from its fiscal needs,
while supporting fundamental structural changes in its core public sector. The loan aims to strengthen
public institutional capacity and the quality of public services, whose end objectives are to strengthen
private investment, diversify the economy, achieve closer integration with the global economy, strengthen
the country's human capital base, and ensure better access to services for citizens particularly the poor.
PART I: THE ECONOMIC SITUATION
A.    OVERVIEW AND RATIONALE
2.    Jordan is a small and open economy whose performance is heavily dependent upon the economic
and political events of the region. Its vulnerability to regional shocks and oil prices stems from: the
special importance of its exports of labor services (around 30 percent of its labor force works outside the
country); the tight links between the evolution of regional revenues from oil and its exports of goods; and
the sensitivity of its tourism receipts to political instability on its borders.
3.    Since the balance of payments crisis of the late 1980s and the disturbances associated with the Gulf
war (300,000 workers returning in a few months), Jordan has made resolute stabilization and adjustment
efforts, supported by the Fund, the Bank and selected bilateral donors. These have been successful:
inflation has been reduced, the current-account situation stabilized and budget deficits reduced. In addition,
Jordan has recently implemented a major shift in trade policy: an association treaty with the EU was signed
in 1999, Jordan joined the WTO in 2000, and a free-trade treaty with the USA is being finalized. Finally, in
addition to the structural changes necessary to implement this trade policy shift, Jordan has achieved
remarkable progress in privatization (notably utilities), in maintaining exchange stability and building
sufficient foreign exchange reserves, in refocusing its state revenues on consumption taxes (away from non
tax revenues), in reducing public external debt, in increasing recourse to the intenal financial markets, and
in pursuing fiscal consolidation by agreeing with the IMEF on an ambitious program to reduce the overall
fiscal deficit, before grants, from 8.9 percent of GDP in 2000 to 3 percent in 2005.
4.    These major adjustments are beginning to bear fruit and spur growth. The role of private sector in
the economy has increased, private investrnent in non residential constructions appears to be improving, and
gains are being made in new export production.
5.    The first Public Sector Reform loan (PRSL-I), part of a series of three successive programmatic
adjustment loans, would assist Jordan in completing its structural reform program over the period 2001-
2005 by focusing on tackling the core public sector functions. Specifically, this loan would provide the
government with budgetary room for maneuver by increasing the stability in government financing in a
situation where the economy and the budget are still moving toward a new equilibrium as a result of
previous major reforms, and remain highly vulnerable to regional political and economic instability. This
loan is fully consistent with the CAS adopted on November 12, 1999.



6.    Continuity is the key aspect of both the Jordanian reform strategies and the Bank's support for
them. Indeed the three ERDLs (from 1995 to 2000) were similar programmatic loans which played an
important role in assisting Jordan's transition to a strategy of outward-oriented growth led by the private
sector. The success in this area is manifested in the trade policy achievements already mentioned, in a
revamping of the overall legal and regulatory framework for business (from patents to finance), in
successful investment promotion initiatives such as the Aqaba Special Economic Zone, and in an efficient
and transparent privatizatiorn program. All parties appreciated that such structural reforms take time and
require the type of flexibility that the ERDLs provided, as fully recognized by the recent Performance
Audit carried out by the Bank.
7.    The PSRLs are designed to expand upon the achievements of the ERDLs in two ways. First, the
programmatic loan instruments have demonstrated their suitability for complex reforms in the case of
economic framework legislation and regulation. Indeed, they are eminently suitable for public sector
reform. They imply a high level of national ownership; they provide assistance to fiscal stability, thereby
facilitating the implementation of difficult reforms. Moreover, the sequencing of Jordanian reforms
conforms to the pattern of successes observed in other countries: first comes macro-stabilization, then
trade policy, then the shift to private sector-led growth with its attendant mutations in the legislative and
regulatory framework. In virtually all countries, it has been only after these reforms had been carried out
that profound changes in the core public sector have been successfully launched. This is the case in
Jordan. In this context, the PSRL-I is another step in a continuum of Bank support for institutional
changes and capacity building in Jordan.
B.    BACKGROUND
8.    Fifteen years of economic boom in Jordan ended with the fall in the mid-1980s of the price of oil
and subsequent declines in workers' remittances (primarily from the Gulf), external financial assistance,
and exports. Average annual growth during 1983-89 was under 1 percent. By 1989, Jordan's inability to
meet its external obligations precipitated a crisis which led to an IMF-supported stabilization program
and a major Paris Club rescheduling. With the advent of the Gulf crisis in 1990, Jordan faced the new
challenge of disruptions of aid and trade and the return of 300,000 Jordanians from the Gulf area, which
raised unemployment to about 20 percent.
9.     Since 1989, the Govemment has pursued an ambitious refomn agenda in order to stabilize the
economy, improve efficiency, and broaden the role of the private sector. Fueled primarily by a major
inflow of savings from Gulf returnees, in addition to extemal debt relief and new concessional aid, real
GDP rebounded in 1992 with growth of 16 percent. Growth was about 5.4 percent per annum during the
period 1993-95, while annual inflation averaged 3 percent.
10.   However, the post-war momentum came to an abrupt end in 1996. The period since then has
been characterized by a slow recovery in growth. Jordan's economic performance in recent years has
been mixed. On the one hand, the rise in real GDP per head has been quite small while fiscal
consolidation has not been as rapid as would have been desirable given the level of public debt. On the
other hand, monetary stability has been reinforced, the extemal position has been strengthened
substantially, and important structural reforms have been implemented and bode well for the future.
Prices have been anchored by the peg of the Jordanian dinar to the U.S. dollar, and inflation has been
consistently low in recent years, although the peg could have hurt export performances.
11.   Jordan suffered from weak recovery in growth in the second half of the 1990s. With a rapidly
growing labor force, the official unemployment rate remained at about 14 percent. Much of the poor
growth performance can be attributed to exogenous factors, such as weak demand in the region and



impediments to trade with Jordan's neighbors. The fiscal deficit and the public debt have remained high,
and the budget structure rigid. The overall fiscal deficit amounted to about 7.5 percent of GDP before
grants during the second half of the 1990s, except for 1998 when some policy slippage, the clearance of
domestic arrears, and the widening of the coverage of government expenditures in the fiscal statistics
inflated the deficit to 9.5 percent of GDP. Slow growth has made fiscal adjustment more difficult. In
addition, the fiscal accounts have been affected by the cost of structural reforms, such as cuts in customs
tariffs, reductions in dividends from public enterprises associated in part with their privatization, and
increased reliance on domestic financing at market-based interest rates. Meanwhile, much of expenditure
is inflexible, with 70 percent of current government expenditure going to wages, pensions, interest
payments, and military spending.
12.    The growth of public debt has been contained owing to substantial receipts of foreign grants. The
fiscal deficit after grants has been in the range of 2.5 to 3.5 percent of GDP (again with the exception of
1998, when it was higher, and in 2000 where preliminary data puts it at 4.7 percent of GDP). Total public
sector debt relative to GDP declined only slightly, from 123 percent of GDP in 1995 to 105 percent in
2000. Moreover, there has been a shift from external to domestic borrowing, and from interest-free
advances from the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) to securitized borrowing from the commercial banks.
13.   Jordan has also managed to improve its balance of payments and to achieve a comfortable level
of international reserves after the chronic external weakness characteristic of the first half of the 1990s.
Jordan's external current account deficit narrowed, reflecting a significant reduction in the trade deficit, an
improvement in the services account, and an increase in private transfers (due mainly to the inflows of
UN transfers to compensate Jordanians affected by the Gulf war). Indeed, the current account including
grants has shown a surplus since 1997. The trade deficit narrowed significantly in 1998 and 1999 but
widened again in 2000. Although trends are unclear, it seems that the improvement in the trade balance
resulted mainly from a decline in imports (in part because of lower re-exports to Iraq and lower oil prices
for much of the period under review), while exports were largely flat. The capital account has witnessed
cycles of inflow and outflow depending on the swings in investor confidence. Foreign direct investment
was relatively stable over 1997-2000.
14.   According to revised estimates, the growth rate of real GDP (at market prices) was 3.1 percent in
1999 and will be 3.9 percent in 2000. Such growth is better than in previous years since 1996, but still
modest. Since population is believed to have been growing at about 3 percent per year, real income per
capita has probably just stopped declining, as had been the case since 1996. Jordan's GDP per capita in
1999 is estimated at JD 1,080 (US$1,524), placing Jordan among the group of middle-income developing
countries. However, Jordan's net income from abroad (mainly in the form of official grants and private
remittances from Jordanians working abroad) amounted to an estimated 25 percent of GDP in 1999. In
particular, official grants from abroad have been high over the past few years, amounting to 5-6 percent of
GDP. Hence, gross national disposable income (GNDI) per capita is significantly higher, and is estimated
atJD 1,349 (US$1,903).'
15.   Jordan's overall fiscal deficit before grants rose from an average of about 7 percent of GDP in
1995-97, to 9.5 percent in 1998, reflecting some policy slippage, the clearance of domestic expenditure
arrears, and the broadening of the coverage of government expenditure in fiscal statistics. The deficit
narrowed in 1999 to 7 percent of GDP, but widened again in 2000 to 8.9 percent of GDP, mainly because
of a shortfall in non-tax revenue. Overall revenue (including grants) declined in 2000 to 30.1 percent of
GDP, from 30.9 percent in 1999 and 33.9 percent in 1995. The overall decline reflected mainly the net
outcome of the following policy developments.
' As of April 2001



- 4 -
*  The General Sales Tax (GST) Law was amended in October 1995 to raise the basic rate from 7 to 10
percent, but subsequently numerous exemptions were introduced. In 1999, a further amendment to
the law raised the basic GST rate to 13 percent and reduced the scope of exemptions.
* The Income Tax Law was amended in 1995 with impact starting in 1996. The principal change in the
law was a reduction in rates, although some exemptions were also eliminated. On balance, the
effective tax rate declined. Income tax revenue declined from an average of 3.5 percent of GDP in
1995-96 to less than 3 percent by 1999.
*  As regards international trade taxes, the combined maximum tariff rate (including fees and
surcharges) was lowered in January 1996 from 70 to 50 percent. In addition, some bands were
eliminated, and tariffs on some capital goods were lowered. In April 1997, the system of import
licenses and the additional tax on imports were consolidated into a single tariff schedule and the
maximum rate was reduced to 40 percent. A new customs law became effective in January 1999,
further reducing exemnptions. Also during 1999, the maximum rate was further reduced to 35
percent, and tariffs on industrial inputs were set to a maximum of 10 percent. In April 2000, the
maximum tariff rate was reduced to 30 percent and further inputs were zero-rated. For the period as
a whole, total trade-related taxes (including the additional tax and licenses) declined from 5.9 percent
of GDP in 1995 to 4.8 percent of GDP in 2000.
*  Jordan relied heavily on non-tax revenue, which has constituted about one-third of total revenue since
1996. In 1996, the former Telecommunications Corporation was put under corporate law. As a
result, non-tax revenues accounting for 3.4 percent of GDP were foregone and were only partly
compensated by transfers from the new Jordan Telecommunications Company (JTC), averaging 2.5
percent of GDP through end-1998. JTC transfers declined again in 1999 prior to the privatization of
the company in early 2000 (see below). Another important component of non-tax revenue is the
so-called "oil surplus," which corresponds to the difference between the cost of buying and refining
crude oil and the consumer price of oil products, which is administered and not frequently changed.
Tlhis mechanism makes non-tax revenue particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in the world price of
oil. In 1999, non-tax revenue increased by more than 1 percent of GDP, largely due to capital gains
resulting from the sale of shares in companies held by the Jordan Investment Corporation. They fell
in 2000 due to the oil surplus.
*  Budgetary expenditure averaged 35 percent of GDP during the period 1995-2000. Deviations from
the average were observed in 1997 and 1998, initially because measured expenditure was hidden by a
build-up of domestic arrears, and later because of the above-noted clearance of arrears and
broadening in the coverage of budgetary expenditure. Over the five-year period, current expenditure
relative to GDP was stable.
*  A number of measures have been taken since 1998 to improve public expenditure management,
budget implementation and monitoring. At the end of 1998, a supplementary budget law was adopted
to regularize that year's off-budget spending and clear outstanding domestic payments arrears. Since
1999, the budget laws have banned the use of "advances" to finance non-budgeted expenditures. Any
such spending has to be subject to a supplementary budget law. The budget's coverage was widened
in 1999 to include previously off-budget spending such as the servicing of the guaranteed debt of
public enterprises. A formal decision not to commit any expenditures after December 15 was taken at
the end of June 1999 to avoid a surge in the end-of-year float.
16.   Roughly one half of the fiscal deficit between 3.5 and 4.0 percent of GDP has been covered by
external grants. The largest component of budgetary grants is that from Iraq, the magnitude of which is to
a large extent determined by world oil prices.



17.   Jordan's public debt remains relatively high. Total public debt is estimated at 105 percent of GDP
in 2000, including government domestic debt of JD 1,162 million (US$1,660 million, equivalent to 22
percent of GDP). The Government's domestic debt is owed almost entirely to the Central Bank of Jordan
and comnmercial banks, although a small volume of bonds (between 3.5 and 4.5 percent of GDP) are held
by non-bank institutions and the general public.
C.    CONCERTED IMF, BANK AND DONOR SUPPORT.
18.   In support of the Government's medium-term adjustment and structural reform program, the IMF
approved a three-year EFF in May 1994 (SDR 189.3 million). After successful completion of scheduled
reviews under the EFF program, the Fund replaced the previous EFF ahead of time with a new one in
February 1996, in an amount equivalent to SDR 200.8 million. The EFF was augmented in February
1997 with an additional SDR 37.24 million equivalent. A new EFF for 1999-2001 was approved on April
15, 1999.
19.   The Bank supported the program through an Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
(ITPAL) in 1990, an Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) in October 1993, and an Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Loan (ASAL) in December 1994. The centerpiece of the Bank's assistance under the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved on October 24, 1995, was a program of three adjustment
operations to support rapid introduction of structural reform and broad economic development, as well as
to strengthen international reserves. The first Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-I) was
approved in the amount of US$80 million in October 1995 with co-financing of US$80 million from
Japan and US$12 million from Italy. In support of the structural reforms the Bank disbursed ERDL-II in
the order of US$120 million in December 1996, with US$8 million equivalent co-financing from the
Netherlands. ERDL-III provided US$120 million to continue the Bank's important involvement with the
Government's medium-term structural reform program up to 2000. OED evaluation reports of ERDLI-III
rate them as satisfactory, especially on implementation of reforms.
20.   The adjustment efforts have also been supported by successive debt rescheduling (March 1992,
July 1994, and May 1997) through the Paris Club, by a Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR)
operation with the London Club, and by a debt buy-back arrangement with the former Soviet Union.
Official bilateral debt reductions were granted by several creditor countries (US, UK, Germany, France,
Italy, and Switzerland among other) on the order of US$1.2 billion. Substantial donor assistance has been
mobilized through three Consultative Group (CG) meetings (January 1993, May 1994, and July 1996).
21.   Since 1996-97, the authorities have pursued a wide-ranging structural reform agenda, with
support from the Fund and from the Bank through ESAL, ASAL, and ERDL-I to III. Beyond the reform
of the subsidy system and introduction of new safety nets, the reforms encompassed additional steps to
improve the General Sales Tax (GST) administration, further regulatory measures in the financial sector
aimed at strengthening the banking system and the capital market, steps to prepare for privatization,
reduction of the maximum tariff rate from 50 to 40 percent, elimination or reduction of tariffs on imported
capital goods, and new measures for trade facilitation. Jordan also ratified an Association Agreement
with the EU which aims at totally eliminating duties on goods imported from the EU by year 2010, joined
the WTO in April 2000, and is finalizing a free-trade agreement with the United States.



- 6 -
PART II: THE PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY PSRL-I
A.    BACKGROUND AND SITUATION
22.   Jordan is a small country with very few natural resources, but a latent strength in human
resources. Since the mid-1990s, the government has made sustained efforts at structural reform,
emphasizing fiscal stability and transparency, financial sector reform, trade liberalization, and
privatization. With the increasing forces of globalization, a policy vision is emerging of Jordan as an
efficient platform for more human resource-intensive exports of goods and services with countries such as
Costa Rica, Ireland, Singapore and Tunisia as models. This vision is reflected in Jordan's recent
accomplishments in international trade diplomacy. This vision will require an economic transformation,
which will demand better public services.
23.   This economic transformation has been vigorously carried out since 1995 and the public sector
reform will represent the natural completion to those structural changes effected in Jordan. Notably under
ERDL-I to III. These reforms have dealt with stabilization, privatization, trade policy, and the enactment
of a far-reaching program of legislative and regulatory changes aimed at providing the correct
environment for opening the economy and moving toward a private-sector led growth strategy. This has
involved a still on-going ambitious legislative and regulatory reform program to improve the business
climate and the attractiveness of Jordan to foreign and domestic investments. The focus of these efforts
was, and remains, to put in place the necessary structural changes required for Jordan to adapt to and
benefit from its membership in the WTO, its trade treaty with the EU, and its free trade agreement with
the United States.
24.   The core public sector constitutes the next major field of reform in this long-term agenda for
structural changes. The planned series of three PSRLs constitutes the Bank's support for the component
in the long-term reform agenda. The PRSLs will be to public sector reform, institutional changes and
capacity building what the ERDLs were to the restructuring of trade and economic institutions. In the
recent past, the program of privatization and upgrading of the legislative and regulatory framework for the
economy has touched the public sector only insofar as it has affected state-owned enterprises and utilities
management. The changes affecting the core public sector, - i.e. prior to the actions conducted since the
summer of 2000 in public sector reform - have been confined to areas such as customs and a limited range
of services to business.
25.   Jordan's sequencing of reforms is similar to the path followed in numerous industrialized,
transition and developing economies: the macroeconomic policies and equilibriums were addressed first;
trade policies and other elements of integration into the world economy were addressed second, state-
owned enterprises third; leaving the core public sector for last. In Jordan, this sequence reflects both the
level of difficulty and the degree of urgency in the various steps. Indeed, even though the Jordanian
public sector needs very substantial reform, the starting situation ensures that resources and a solid base
do exist to carry out the reforms.
26.   Jordan seems to enjoy one of the better public administrations in the region. Governance
indicators rate favorably compared to other countries in the region. Well-qualified Jordanians hold
important civil-service positions in the region, especially in the Gulf, in occupations ranging from nursing
and teaching to management and engineering. But the administration's image vis-a-vis the Jordanian
population and businesses does not score such high marks. The public sector is accused of suffering from
rigidities, overabundance of red-tape, inefficiency, and a distinct lack of orientation toward service
delivery. Household surveys conducted two years ago, as well as job and procedures simplification
initiatives launched under the present public sector reform program, have documented substantial costs



-7-
- 7 -
inflicted on users by outmoded service delivery mechanisms and red tape. There is a firm conviction
within the country that the state apparatus and public services should be modemized and that doing so
will lead to significant improvements in the real standard of living of the citizens and improve Jordan's
attractiveness to businesses.
27.    Previous research has identified problem areas and sources of inefficiencies that can be remedied
by public sector reform. These include: compressed pay scales and difficulties in recruiting managerial
talent; cumbersome recruiting procedures with too little weight given to the specific jobs to be performed;
appraisals and audits focusing essentially on conformity to rules and regulations, not performance; a
detailed input-based budgeting system limited to a one-year expenditure management horizon which
renders programming difficult and opaque; long processes and a heavy paper burden inflicted on citizens
for mundane operations such as changing schools; slow adaptations to changing demands from ministries
afflicted with a large number of control levels (up to six); and substantial overlaps in responsibilities
among public organizations. The institutional make-up of the civil service does not encourage a
performance orientation. Jobs are secure and promotion is by seniority. Hence, performance incentives
are limited, except for some jobs; while most senior appointments are not adequately subject to
meritocratic considerations. As in many other countries, access to the civil service and promotions within
it have been used for purposes of socio-political equilibrium. And, most importantly for the PSRL, there
is a strong and widely shared belief that the whole state apparatus has to be modemized and cannot be
exempted from the changes demanded from other sectors under the new open and market-led growth
strategy.
28.    The size and structure of the Jordanian public sector exhibit the following features:
e  Jordan's public sector employs around 240,000 people. Education and health account for around
60 percent of civilian employment, outside state-owned enterprises. The size of civilian
govenmment does not appear excessive by regional and intemational standards, in part because of
the recent privatization initiatives. Historically, it is believed that there has been a degree of over-
staffing, but the level of employment has been held constant since 1995.
*  Monetary allowances represent a large proportion of remuneration. Basic wages are kept low to
minimize pension obligations since pensions are nominally very generous for civil servants
having joined before 1995, and more so than for other labor force participants under the Jordanian
social security regime, which is also applicable for civil servants hired since 1995. The
allowances, which average 70 percent of basic wages, vary significantly across jobs and
ministries. At 7.1 percent of GDP (and 18 percent of public expenditures), Jordan's public-sector
wage bill is fairly high by international standards (5.4 percent worldwide) but much lower that in
countries such as Morocco or Tunisia.
*  The most important problem in civil-servant remuneration is one of compression. The lower
levels of the civil service (Grade 4) are overpaid by the standards of the private sector - and
probably over-qualified. They are not subject to the career-entry controls of the Civil Service
Bureau. The higher civil service levels are relatively underpaid as a result of the erosion of real
salaries in recent years. As a result, there has been an exodus of good civil servants (largely
reversed during and immediately after the Gulf War) both to the private sector and to the Gulf
countries. Thus one specific characteristic of Jordan is that its civil servants (including those in
education and health) are directly subject to international competition. This means that "holding
the line" on public salaries is far from costless in its repercussions on Jordan's capacity for
providing services.
*  Political influence has been a decisive factor in appointments at the more senior levels. At the
same time, Ministers have also been free to appoint advisers on contracts outside the rules and
pay scales of the Civil Service Statute. There is now a clear consensus that it is necessary to



-8-
balance political considerations with meritocratic criteria. Designing this equilibrium is part of
the work underway in the revamping of the Civil Service By Law.
29.   As in many developing countries inside and outside the Region, public-sector reform has long
been on Jordan's agenda (nominally since at least the early 1980s) but progress has been slow. The King
has included in his programmatic note to the past 12 govemments a mandate to reform the public sector
and improve its services. The overall diagnosis of the ills of the public sector is shared by the whole
polity and has become a mainstream complaint since 1984. Some of the reasons for this lack of success
appear to be: i) political instability (the average life of a govemment has been approximately 11 months
over the past decade), which has prevented the systematic carrying out of reforms which require a
continuous and focused effort; ii) lack of committed resources to carry out reforms beyond diagnostics;
and iii) the role played by the public sector and by public sector employment in the delicate socio-
political equilibrium of Jordan, which has required a high level of political commitment to reform and a
quantity of resources that have not been forthcoming in the past.
30.   The present program builds on these difficulties and disappointments of the past. Indeed, the
government program ("Modemization and Development of the Public Sector", report presented to His
Majesty King Abdallah Ibn Al-Hussein, prepared by The Committee for Administrative Reform, Amman,
July 2000) explicitly mandates the analysis of the reasons for the lack of lasting results in past efforts, for
every aspect of the present public sector reform. More importantly, the structure of parallel tracks in the
reform implementation strategy, the already firm commitment of adequate resources (notably for Judicial
Reform), the decentralization of efforts and wide mobilization of human resources (particularly in
effecting direct and very tangible improvements in access to and quality of services), are all elements that
point to a new effort which is structured so as to avoid the pitfalls of the past.
31.   All in all, the need, as perceived both in Jordan and in the donor community, for wide-ranging
public sector reform stems from: a) the necessity to complete the structural reform agenda initiated in
1995 and thereby allow the growth strategy to work in ensuring that public services are modernized to the
same extent that trade policies and framework legislation and regulation of economic activities have been;
b) the complementarity between the success of the stimulation efforts underway vis-a-vis the private
sector and the improved capabilities of the public sector to discharge its specific responsibilities in
enhancing both the business climate and Jordanian competitiveness in attracting investment and in
directly affecting the real incomes of citizens who have borne the brunt of the slow growth experienced in
the later part of the 1 990s; and c) a modern, efficient public sector being an essential element of a human
resources-based growth strategy, given the size of the sector and Jordan's long tradition of exporting
qualified labor and services in this and adjacent sectors.
B.    PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM: THE PRESENT PLAN AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
32.    The Jordanian public sector reform program enjoys a very high degree of ownership within the
country. The plan was produced locally in May 2000. It has been presented to the King and the Council
of Ministers, and has three ministers specifically tasked with implementing its key tracks. The plan
borrows from previous collaborative work with the Bank and other donors but, in structure and content, it
is essentially home-grown. It is comprehensive in dealing not only with priority initiatives (improving
citizens' access to services, e-govemment, judicial reforms, new civil service institutions, etc.), but also in
setting out clear objectives (transparency, effectiveness and efficiency, equity in access to services, etc.)
and in incorporating concrete time-tables and institutional responsibilities in the early stages of the
process. It also mandates systematic examination of why previous efforts have failed in various domains.
33.   The basic approach retained is incremental and pragmatic. Little energy is devoted to specifying
in any detail what the optimal end states should be or what are the features of the ideal public sector for
Jordan. The key general notions of increased accountability, transparency, equity and efficiency are



- 9 -
considered sufficient long-term beacons. The dominant characteristic of the program is to solve problems
known to exists with the present state of affairs, to sequence improvements in terms of their feasibility
and time frames: what improvements can be achieved quickly come first and are seen as building blocks
for further amelioration. This modus operandi is based on a vision of public organizations and institutions
as needing continuous improvements rather that conformity to an ideal model. Therefore substantial
efforts are devoted to setting up organizations and institutions with a high capability for self-diagnosis,
with incentives to identify needed changes and launch them. This vision of public management is
particularly manifest in the way the whole network of public sector reform teams in ministries is designed
for continuous action on the ground, with a small nucleus of leaders who will relay each other according
to the priorities of the moment. The same holds for the training and institutional-assessment functions of
the new Ministry of Administrative Development and Civil Service. This perspective of aiming for
organizations with high adaptability and inherent capacity for change is in full agreement with recent
literature in public or private management.
34.    The implementation strategy adopted is original and minimizes risks of gridlock. It eschews
detailed grand plans where everything depends on everything else and where a central authority has to
decide everything. Rather, it focuses on immediate tangible results and discrete actions in all fields in
order to build on success and widen the political support base for the reform. It allows for substantial
bottom-up input and operates along parallel tracks to ensure against bottlenecks. It is believed that
potential overlaps among the project tracks is a low price to pay to ensure that if one track stalls, it does
not endanger the pace of the whole program.
35.    The public sector reform program, while not an anti-poverty initiative, is likely to have significant
beneficial effects from that point of view. For instance, the whole range of improvements in quality of
services and in facilitating access to services for the citizens will reduce the time and costs of obtaining
services and will reduce bureaucratic arbitrariness. Since it is well known that the most disadvantaged
populations are those most likely to suffer from such arbitrariness, and are the keenest users of health,
education, welfare and pensions services, the improvements are very likely to raise the real incomes of the
poor more than that of the rest of the population. Indirectly, the reductions in costs of access and
compliance will disproportionately benefit small business at the margin of the formal sector, thereby
favoring the type of employers most likely to employ marginal workers. Finally, judicial reform is
explicitly targeted at greater equality of access to judicial services.
36.    The three main tracks of the reform strategy are:
*  The public sector reform proper, led by the Minister for Administrative Development: This track
deals with civil service reform (new Civil Service By Law, training of civil servants); government
restructuring (boundaries between state and private sector, redistribution of responsibilities between
ministries); structural changes in responsibilities (as is the case for the audit functions); ensuring
better quality of service and easier access to them for households and businesses (information
dissemination, guidance for users, procedures simplification and re-engineering of processes in public
organizations);
* The e-government initiative, led by a task-force chaired by the Minister for Post and
Telecommunications. This track deals with IT development inside government, communications
within government, and communications between government and businesses and citizens. This
initiative is seen as a key component of the overall human resources-based economic growth strategy
which intends to transform Jordan into the regional center for exports of services and expertise in the
field;



- 10-
* Judicial Reform, under a Royal Commission for the Development of the Judiciary (RCDJ). This
track aims at modernizing the entire justice system from its day-to-day operations to judges training
and appointments, to procedures and Evidence Law.
37.   Each track operates independently and with clear attribution of responsibilities. An array of
interlocking committees ensures flexible coordination among the three tracks. For instance, the Minister
for Administrative Development is a member of the task force on Judicial Reform where he is responsible
for the administrative and logistical aspects of this track. Some of the key persons in the e-government
effort sit on the coordinating committee for improving citizens' access to services (jobs and procedures
simplification) led by the Minister for Administrative Development, who is in turn responsible for the
administrative and personnel aspects of the e-government initiative.
38.   The public sector reform strategy calls for immediate action wherever possible, to improve public
service delivery. This has been translated into an effort aimed at simplifying procedures hence reducing
bureaucratic delays and enhancing both the quality of and access to these services. In order to achieve
this objective, internal resources were mobilized; focusing on a bottom-up approach, reform committees
comprised of employees of each ministry or agency were formed and put under the stewardship of the
Minister of State for Administrative Development. This strategy has led to the decentralization of Public
Sector Reform Efforts, and the creation of nuclei of change in each department and administration. Such
nuclei exist in almost all ministries and agencies; their work is reviewed by the Public Sector Reforn
Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of State for Administrative Development but they participate
actively in the Steering committee's work and deliberations.
39.    Overall, the sequencing of changes is driven by their timeframes for implementation. First, those
rules and organizational features which can be modified by the relevant line ministries are reviewed.
Second, modifications which require Council of Minister's approval are tackled. Third, special
committees are set up to deal with changes requiring new legislation. This sequencing reflects the present
very heavy legislative workload confronting Parliament, in part due to the magnitude and variety of
policy changes launched under the previous programmatic loans from the Bank (ERDLs).
40.    Overall, Bank staff consider the Jordanian public sector reformn strategy as very sound: it unfolds
logically within a wider perspective of economic and institutional changes over a decade; it exhibits high
ownership not only in the support from the authorities and key personnel, but also in the production of a
home-grown plan and of an implementation strategy which reflects local realities; it focuses first on very
practical and concrete measures capable of improving rapidly the lot of citizens, thereby setting the
ground for building on success and solidifying and expanding support for the reforms; it decentralizes
reform implementation with enough overlaps to minimize the risks of the whole effort grinding to a halt
because one element does not succeed.
41.    The contribution the Bank can offer, apart from the increased financial stability and legitimacy
procured by the loan, is essentially in technical assistance drawn from its extensive experience in public
sector reform in a variety of countries. While taking great care to respect the plans and agendas of the
Jordanian reform champions, the Bank can readily respond to requests for information, comment and
analysis. Such requests have already been formulated in a few domains, more are at the early discussion
stages. For instance, the following are under preparation: a high-level seminar on the political economy
of civil service reforms; a study on local and municipal responsibilities and governance in their
relationships to the central authorities; and ways to communicate and discuss with reform managers a
wide selection of other countries' experiences.



- 11 -
C.    KEY COMPONENTS OF THE ONGOING REFORM PROGRAM
42.   This section presents the components of the reform program which have been included in the
"prior actions" (i.e. prior to the June 21st Board date) for PSRL-I. In the context of the first in a series of
programmatic loans, such components are those for which sufficient implementation and planning have
been done prior to June 2001 for the Bank to have appraised them and for both parties to have explicitly
included them in the policy matrix at the end of the present report. Thus not all the initiatives contained
in the government program are discussed here, since some of them are still in the early planning stages.
C.1 Communieations strategy
Situation and needs
43.   While the public sector reform program enjoys full support of the King and the highest levels of
Government, it is still met by popular skepticism and will certainly encounter resistance from particular
interest groups. Opposition to certain elements of the reform program is often mixed with misconception
and misunderstandings about the rationale behind public sector reforms, much of which stem from a lack
of informed, open and factual public dialogue and citizens' lack of confidence in the public sector due to
its performance and to its perceived poor transparency and accountability. Furthermore, there is a general
feeling among members of Parliament, the business community, academia, the media and society at large
that they are not properly informed and that their voices are not heard and appropriately taken into
account in the decision-making process.
44.   To counter this, the implementation strategy for public sector reform includes a communications
program aimed at promoting public participation, transparency and consensus on the key issues in
Jordan's public sector reform by establishing two-way communications channels with the population, as
well as dialogue with specific interest groups such as public sector employees, students, business people,
parliamentarians and the media. The key objectives of the communications strategy are to:
*  Build credibility for the program, establish a public discourse based on the facts and merits of public
sector reforms, (via open forums with independent economic policy institutes, the media etc.);
communicating with civil society groups early on in the process; transmitting a credible vision for the
development of the country as a whole; and showing progress and emphasizing the costs of
continuing with the present system. These activities would help build public understanding and
ownership and ensure the sustainability of the reform effort.
*  Institutionalizing client satisfaction procedures and enacting a disclosure policy, as is underway in the
improvements in services to the public component. Communications can help in instilling a
"customer" focus in government by establishing feedback mechanisms that give citizens a voice in
the evaluation of government performance.
*  Ensuring transparency in civil service reform through an effective dissemination strategy on
procedures and processes, as well as participation of all stakeholders. To reduce unnecessary social
tensions and further smooth implementation, the communications strategy attempts to minimize
uncertainty and manage expectations in a realistic fashion.
* Winning investor and private sector interest both locally and internationally through a
communications campaign via the Internet and other channels that aims to provide updated
information on relevant legal and administrative changes and secure private sector involvement.
45.   To achieve these objectives it is necessary to put a communications program in place which
builds on public opinion research and involves a set of coordinated activities (e.g., awareness building,



- 12 -
public outreach and education, research and training) based on clear goals, a proactive agenda and a
system of on-going monitoring and feedback. The communications strategy will vary according to each
of the specific tracks described above and the results of preliminary audits and needs assessments.
Outputs in 2001 - 02
46.   The main elements of the strategic communications action plan are: i) a survey on public sector
reform issues to determine the most salient points to be addressed; ii) designing and using focus groups
(users and providers of services) for similar purposes; iii) setting up a Communications Unit to
institutionalize communications capacity; iv) designing and executing a strategy for consensus building
within civil society at large (seminars and discussions groups with NGOs, unions, etc.); and v) expanding
outreach activities to specific audiences from schools to potential foreign investors. All this requires
mobilizing expertise to analyze results of surveys, press contents, focus groups, etc., to help design both
the final communications strategy and to produce the materials (brochures, television material), as well as
train a limited number of officials in the required communication skills. Once trained, these officials can
spearhead the increase in capacity for communications in departments and regions.
47.    Since September 2000, initiatives on the communications aspect have included: securing regular
news, panels and explanations of public sector reform in both the electronic and print media. In the same
vein, seminars and presentations have been organized to present the reform plans to several groups of
stakeholders, mainly business users and civil servants. To fulfill the objectives just mentioned, it will be
necessary in the 2001-02 period to rationalize and expand on those efforts.
C.2. Reform of the Judicial Sector
Current Situation
48.   Recent efforts undertaken by the Jordanian Government to modernize its legal framework,
particularly with regard to business activities, have been largely successful. Renewed laws include (i) a
modem securities law regime, (ii) a new commercial law, (iii) the evidence law, (iv) the customs law, (v)
the labor law, (vi) the copyright law, (vii) the telecommunications law, (viii) the education law, (ix) the
income tax law, (x) the banking laws (including the central bank law and the law on bank monitoring),
(xi) Code of Commerce, (xii) e-commerce law, as well other instruments such as the new Civil Code and
the patent law. In addition, the Jordanian Government has prepared and submitted to Parliament a whole
range of laws related to the functioning of the Judiciary, for example dealing with the training and career
development of magistrates, and with the conditions required to ensure their independence.
49.   The initiative stems from a broad-based realization that Jordan is entering an era in which its legal
framework and justice system are key factors in attracting domestic and foreign private investments.
Private sector operatives, lawyers, judges and the citizenry in general not only support the need for
upgrading the justice system, they have triggered the reform, arguing that an antiquated legal framework
and a flawed justice system are actually a drain on the economy.
50.   The successes in modernizing the legal framework present an additional challenge to a justice
system which is already perceived to be in serious need of upgrading. The simultaneous and important
changes in a large number of laws require that they also be adequately enforced and that the justice
system be up to the task. It is felt that the present justice system is not prepared to face this challenge and
that its improvement is a priority task in improving the lives of citizens.



- 13 -
Diagnosis and strategy
51.   It is believed that the problems with the present system are: (i) inadequate predictability of
judgments; (ii) inefficiency of the judicial process (including long delays resulting in a huge backlog of
cases, even at the level of the Supreme Court); iii) lack of transparency of judicial decision-making; iv)
insufficient competency in matters of commercial law, broadly defined; (v) limited capacity to enforce
judgments; (vi) poor dissemination of legal information; (vii) antiquated Ministry of Justice's processes
and organization. These problems are aggravated by weaknesses in the way laws and regulations are
prepared, notably the perceived lack of a participatory approach and consensus-building in the preparation
and the draffing of new laws, with the consequence that the legislation is not always fully in tune with the
country's realities.
52.   A far-reaching and broad-based reform of the administration of justice has been set in motion by
King Abdullah in a letter to the Government dated August 8, 2000. A Royal Commission for the
Development of the Judiciary (RCDJ) has been created, comprising a number of highly respected figures
of the Jordanian establishment, including a former Prime Minister.
53.   The following areas are now being addressed in the reform program:
*  Functioning of the Judiciary: The RCDJ has, in less than one year of work, achieved remarkable
results in terms of modernizing the legal framework for the organization and functioning of the
judiciary.  It has also involved the Ministry of Administrative Development in tackling the
operational issues related to the reform of the judiciary. Among its achievements, the RCDJ has
prepared and presented to Parliament a number of new pieces of legislation and amendments to
existing ones, all aimed at fostering the independence of the judiciary, streamlining the judicial
processes and, through the adoption of a new Arbitration Code based on the UINCITRAL Model Law,
providing alternative means of commercial dispute resolution. Also, under the stewardship of the
Ministry of Administrative Development, a wide-ranging effort for the modernization of the judiciary
is taking place. Chief among these measures is the computerization of the Amman Palace of Justice,
including the hiring of typist and clerks, which would make a tremendous difference in the time
required for users to get judicial decisions ready for implementation (from five weeks with the
previous manual system, to a single day with the new equipment and personnel). Plans for an
inclusive case management system reaching the whole country are under study.
*  Training: One of the main components of the reform will be the training of the magistrates. The
Judicial Institute (institute for the training of magistrates) is identified by the private sector as relying
on outdated methods of teaching and curricula and lacking the necessary focus on business law. The
Judicial Institute will need a major revamping. The RCDJ has prepared draft legislation abrogating
the present law regulating the functioning and operations of the Judicial Institute, and is proposing a
more flexible operational organization. What remains to be addressed within the reform plan initiated
is the curriculum of the Institute and its teaching methods. Planning and design work in these fields
has started and will be completed in 2001-2002. Improved training will also be addressed at the
university level.
* Workloads. Career Development and Financial Situation of Judges: In terms of their status, their
salaries and career development, judges in Jordan have been complaining about the inadequacy of
their compensation and about a very heavy workload. A Ministry of Justice estimate reveals that
there are about 2,388 cases per annum for every judge. The RCDJ has proposed measures for
improving the financial situation of the magistrates and an amount of about JD 1.3 million (US$1.9
million) has already been allocated to the Ministry of Justice to increase the pay of judges. In
addition, a new organization of the profession has been proposed that would include a new salary



- 14-
scale and an improved retirement scheme, as well the plans involve doubling the number of judges
over the medium-term.
*  Dissemination of Legal Information: Another major issue constraining the development of the justice
system as a support for economic development and openness is the lacunae of published of legal
information. The increased volume of legislation, regulation and jurisprudence in the 1990s has not
been accompanied by adequate levels of dissemination. Currently, all Jordanian laws, decrees,
selected decrees of the Council of Ministers, and international treaties or conventions of multilateral
or bilateral character are published in the Official Gazette. Systematic upgrading in this field is seen
as a priority. It appears that the dissemination of legislation over the internet is on the verge of
becoming a reality. This will require the establishment of an electronic database with reliable access
for all potential users in conjunction with other, more traditional methods of dissemination.
*  Administrative/managerial matters: The RDCJ has proposed, as part of a three-year strategic reform
program, to introduce and generalize court and case management, together with appropriate training
of auxiliaries of justice and support personnel. This plan also includes vastly improved access to
decisions and records, along the same strategic path of computerization to be followed for the
dissemination of legal information.
=  Introduction of a country wide court and case management system: Building on the first effort made
in the Amman Palace of Justice and on the national feasibility study planned over the next year, a
time-bound action plan will be launched for the introduction of a country-wide court and case
management system. Such a system would promote equity in access to the judicial system and reduce
delays and errors as well as costs to the users.
Outputs in 2001-02
54.   The action plan to be supported by the PRSL-I during 2001-02 comprises:
-  Training: Reaching asi agreement on an agenda for reforming the Judicial Institute, including: (i)
adoption by the Government of the law regulating the Institute, aiming at providing it with more
administrative and budgetary autonomy; and (ii) updating the curricula through the introduction of
new courses focused on business law broadly defined and on foreign languages; designing operational
plans the training of judges and auxiliaries of justice.
*  Incentives: Providing the Ministry of Justice with budgetary resources i) to improve the financial
situation of the judges in the short term; and ii) to enable the adoption by the Government of a new
plan aimed at establishing a flexible and evolutionary salary scale and an improved pension scheme
for judges in 2001-02 and iii) launching the expansion in the number of judges.
* Modernization: Detailed planning and equipping Amman courts with modern tools of case processing
and the training required to operate it, as a first step in the introduction of a modern case management
system.
*  Promotion of out-of-court settlement procedures: Presentation to Parliament of an Arbitration Code in
order to reduce the delays in the judicial process, notably in matters of commercial litigation. Jordan
has already adhered to and ratified all relevant international instruments in the matter.
*  Dissemination of information and electronic access to information: Conduct a thorough feasibility
study and produce an action plan for the electronic and systematic dissemination of legal and judicial
information (judicial decisions, laws and regulations).



- 15 -
*      Conduct preliminary work and consultations on: i) the capacity to enforce judgments, for instance by
launching a study to assess the feasibility of the creation of the office of judge for enforcement of
business-related judicial decisions; ii) a mechanism for consensus building in the drafting of legislation
by involving relevant stakeholders; iii) a review of the options with respect to structuring of the Ministry
of Justice with a view to clarifying attributions and streamlining procedures, and improving the relations
between the justice administration services and the users.
C.3. Reform of civil service institutions
55.    This section considers the key institutional element of the civil service reform: the revamping of
the Civil Service Bylaw and its immediate complements. Other important reforms dealing with public
sector human resources management are presented in the next section (Government Restructuring).
Diagnosis and strategy
56.    Reforming Jordan's civil service has been on the national reform agenda since the early 1980s.
The civil service is said to be under qualified, its hiring practices dominated by the traditional patronage
system, and its training grossly inadequate. Furthermore, civil servants are seen as unresponsive to the
public and businesses and as lacking a customer-service orientation. Finally, the civil service is
increasingly unable to retain qualified and motivated civil servants because its salaries are low and its
evaluation and promotion criteria are not transparent. However broad the consensus on the state of the
civil service in Jordan, it should be noted that Jordan has been exporting civil servants for decades. Few
scientific studies have been conducted on it, but some remarkable capacity for change and improvements
has already been observed in public sector reform activities and some of their immediate predecessors (cf.
"Improvements in services to the public).
57.    The solutions to the problems identified are: (i) revamping the Civil Service Bylaw ("Bylaw"
means that it can be amended by the Council of Ministers without needing the approval of Parliament)
and ii) improving the incentives framework. The other two avenues for solutions (the strengthening of
civil service management infrastructure and training) are treated in the next section. Rewriting the Civil
Service Bylaw is meant to pave the way for a new relationship between the State and its employees. The
new relationship envisioned is one in which evaluation and promotion are fair, transparent, and based on
merit; responsive service is rewarded, and poor performance leads to dismissal.
The initiatives underway and the action plans
58.    Since September 2000, a draft new Civil Service Bylaw has been written. It extensively modifies
the previous statute (from 1988, with amendments in 1996 and 1998). The key features of this new
Bylaw are:
*  A new Code of Ethics for Public Employees to clarify what is considered corrupt or unethical
behavior in the civil service.
*  A new way of selecting most senior public managers. To reach an equilibrium between political and
meritocratic considerations, the Council of Ministers would select from a short list established
according to rigorously meritocratic process. The selected top managers would serve for a set term
(renewable once) and would be subject to regular evaluations (which is not the case now).
*  A reformed performance appraisal and promotion system favoring more transparency and improving
incentives for good performance. The new appraisal system insists on continuous performance
monitoring as a key managerial responsibility.



- 16 -
* A new basic salary structure for judges and education employees of the public sector, hopefully
capable of attracting and retaining the best personnel.
* Larger scope for dismissal of inefficient or unqualified civil servants, to deal with absenteeism and
staff receiving unsatisfactory appraisals.
59.   In complement to the new Civil Service Bylaw, substantial progress has already been made to
ensure that the conditions for its effective implementation are in place. This is the case for the review of
all job descriptions as the underlying framework for improving performance appraisal and recruitment.
The present system uses only generic job descriptions applicable to all departments and is more suited for
judging academnic performances than the capacity of a certain person to efficiently discharge a given job.
Of course the present system of job classification is well suited to centralized recruitment where the say
of operational managers counts for little. The new job description will retain the common elements but
will also add those which are specifics to department functions, and departmental managers will now play
a crucial role in the hiring process.
60.   The public sector is and will remain an important employer in Jordan. To improve transparency
and faimess in accessing jobs in this sector, plans are underway to ensure electronic access to all
openings, rules and qualifications. Already, the names and qualifications of applicants for various public
jobs are posted on the internet.
61.    Such reforms are delicate everywhere. The process is still at an early stage in Jordan, but
substantial outputs are now tangible. It should be noted that unions have participated in the work of the
main Ministry of Administrative Development committee overseeing the elaboration of the new Civil
Service Bylaws and its complements.
62.   Pay reform  for judges and education personnel has started for the whole of the civil service.
More profound reforms are planned, notably on salary compression, on the relative importance and
structuring of allowances, on the possible transfer of civil servants hired before 1995 to the general social
security regime for pension purposes. All these aspects will see more elaborate study and planning over
the next year and a start in implementation in 2003-04.
Outputs in 2001-02
63.   The specific outputs expected in 2001-02 are:
*  Adoption of the new Civil Service Bylaw by the Council of Ministers and the implementation of its
provisions on top managers' hiring and evaluation, on job descriptions hiring and promotions, as well
as on fleshing out the criteria and modus operandi for appraisals.
*  Implementation of the recommendations for pay adjustments for judges and health and education
personnel.
*  Setting up and testing of the mechanisms needed to monitor and assess the effects of the new Bylaw
and its complements.
*  Computerization and improved reliability in HR record keeping.
*  Online full information about access to jobs in the public sector and a study to produce a complete
plan on the possible contribution of full computerization for HR management.



- 17 -
The launch of an in-depth review of compensation structures and the design of options to improve
them.
C.4. Governmentrestructuring
Objectives and strategy
64.   This part of the program pursues three objectives with different time frames.
65.   The first objective is to set up as quickly as possible organizational structures capable of
sustaining and furthering some of the key reform tracks now underway. This explains the priority given
to the Ministry of Administrative Development and Civil Service; helping put in place and reap the
benefits of the new Civil Service Law; a modernized set of organizations and division of labor to
assessment functions, a re-focused and reorganized delivery of training for civil servants by the Jordanian
Institute of Public Administration and others. This target of an operationally transformed Ministry should
be reached by 2002.
66.   The second objective is to pursue relatively ambitious departmental reforms in big ministries such
as Education which, at fruition, would not only help modernize important activities in the public sector,
but would also have an exemplary character vis-a-vis the rest of the system, notably in terms of the
feasibility and advantages attached to alternatives means of delivery for public services. This is the case
for instance in the planned reorganization of the testing services in Education. Along the same vein, one
finds the merger and rationalization of the various entities now dealing with investment promotion and
with government procurement. The planning for these moves has been initiated, it will be completed in
2001-02 and the implementation started in the same period. Completion is expected for 2003 and full
operationalization for complex ventures such as those in Education in 2004.
67.   The third objective, the ultimate beacon for the two others, is both to rationalize present structures
and operations in order to correct what have been shown to be inefficient arrangements (e.g., external
auditors devoting time to a priori clearances) and reach an organizational set-up capable of much more
rapid self-analysis and adaptation than is presently the case. This involves building capacity for
institutional appraisals and locating it in the right places; (distinguishing personnel policy functions and
the regulatory instances for civil servants); stating a solid expansion of feedback mechanisms from users
as well as the expansion of alternative service delivery methods.
The initiatives underway and the action plans
68.   The structuring of the new MoADCS has been fully planned and has already been submitted to
the Council of Ministers, which is expected to approve (this redistribution of ministerial attributions does
not require legislative action in Jordan). The new organizational set-up should be put in place in 2001-02.
The MoADCS will become essentially the "management ministry". Its new responsibilities and structures
will be as follows:
*  It would assume the human resources management responsibilities now devolved to the Civil Service
Bureau, leaving the regulatory functions to the Commission. This means that appraisals, hiring and
promotions, as well as training would come under the aegis of MoADCS.
*  JIPA will be part of MoADCS and will focus exclusively on civil service training, both as a direct
supplier of training services and as a facilitator for outsourced training activities required by
departments. For the immediate future, it will concentrate its activities on managers along two axes:
computer literacy and English proficiency. The activity in computer literacy started in January and
by June 2001, the top 1000 managers will have received such training. In addition, over the next year



- 18 -
JIPA's objectives and implementation strategy for the medium term will be fleshed out, notably with
respect to some of its new functions such as expanding training to support personnel, designing
modes of continuous training paths, planning how it can be a facilitator for outsourced training
activities, and how it can better collaborate with universities.
69.   The Administrative Control and Inspection Bureau (ACIB) was established a decade ago as an
independent entity attached to the Prime Minister's office. It assesses a posteriori the administrative and
financial decisions of public organizations. It will become part of the new ministry. Its functions and
mission will then be to produce institutional assessments on a regular basis and to serve as a focal point
for expertise exchanges between ministries in order to stimulate improvement on a continuous basis.
70.    The activities geared to the second objective of assisting big departmental reforms and
government wide rationalization of activities are presently at the planning stage. On the rationalization
front, the two main targets are: i) to merge into a single and leaner organization the four presently
dispersed units that deal with investment promotion; and ii) to merge and streamline the two
organizations presently handling government procurement (Government Supply and Tenders Unit). This
is in line with the conclusions of the Procurement Review conducted with the Bank over the last few
months. The timetable for completion is still to be finalized
71.   The focus for reform among the larger ministries is on a limited range of key activities of the
Ministry of Education (52 percent of the civilian governmental workforce). Similar initiatives in the
Ministry of Health will not start before 2002. In Education, the projects in an advanced planning stage
are: i) the grouping of all testing activities in a special unit (National Testing Center) which, while
remaining linked to the Ministry of Education, would provide testing services in a quasi-commercial
mode for the whole of Jo.rdan; and ii) a more ambitious project being launched in the same vein to
separate and regroup all activities related to teachers' assessments in a specialized unit that would have a
substantial degree of autonomy and would target quality of services and rational career management.
These two complex projects should materialize in 2003.
Outputs in 2001-02
72.   Over the next year, the outputs expected are as follows:
*  A fully operational new Ministry of Administrative Development and Civil Service at the end of the
year. Its functions and missions have been identified for institutional appraisals; its training in English
and Computer Literacy has taken place for managers; its structures are designed for collaboration
with line departments in training; the switch of responsibilities for civil servants management is fully
planned and its implementation has started.
*  Design work is completed for the National Testing Center and well advanced for the Teachers
Appraisal and Management Entity; detailed operational plans have been completed for streamlining
the investment promotion activities and for the upgraded management structures for government
procurement. These have been approved by the Council of Ministers and, where needed, the required
legislative amendments have been tabled in Parliament.
C.5. Improvements in services to the public
Objectives and strategy
73.    This is probably the most original and potentially the most successful element to date in the
Jordanian public sector reform program. The focus and objectives are clear: obtain rapidly tangible
results in improving service delivery to citizens on as many fronts as possible and, in so doing, lay the



- 19 -
groundwork for further self-sustaining improvements. In practice it has meant since September 2000
focusing on front-line services, using a bottom-up decentralized approach with complete involvement of
front-line managers and personnel, backed by rapid training, coordination and support from MoAD. The
sequence of objectives, as mentioned above, is established according to the implementation timeframes
required for each process simplification and improvement: first those which can be accomplished under
the authority of the line minister, second those which require regulatory changes for which the Council of
Ministers' assent is needed, and last those requiring new or amended legislation or substantial
investments.
74.   The medium-term objective framing these initiatives is to set up a permanent network for
improving quality and access to services. This network would be essentially made up of line civil
servants and would take the form of task forces whose membership would change according to the
specific services being examnined. A small core of leaders would drive the efforts in each ministry and
provide the two-way contacts with the MoAD functions in training, system-wide quality enhancement and
institutional assessment. The work already carried out since September has been a learning-by-doing
effort and has led to the identification of teams and leaders in more than 15 departments as well as
supplying a way to test and refine the techniques and training managed by the MoAD. Finally, to ensure
that intentions and plans are carried out and to produce the desired results service delivery surveys will be
conducted regularly to gauge satisfaction and to identify problems areas by getting systematic feedback
from users.
75.    Complementary initiatives underway and destined to cover the whole of government-supplied
services in the medium term have targeted transparency and equal access to services as key objectives.
To reach these objectives, a full information systems for clients has been launched. This will lead to
descriptions (widely distributed brochures, telephone data bank services and web sites) of the services
available, the requirements to obtain them, the places where they can be obtained, and their costs. These
directories will be published and posted over the next 2-3 years. The objective is to be exhaustive: 1,400
different services have been identified and will be thus processed in order not to lose sight of the initial
and dominant objective of realizing concrete improvements that make a difference in the quality of life of
citizens.
76.   Other complementary elements in this field address the accountability of providers. Ultimately,
all persons in contact with the public will have to wear name tags and be personally accessible by phone.
All government offices will have customer service offices providing guidance with clear signs and
transformed physical layouts to facilitate transactions. When feasible, single windows and decentralized
offices will be established.
The initiatives underway and the action plans
77.    Since September, the implementation of the strategy for service improvement has involved:
*  Setting up and training teams in 32 departments and organization (more than 150 persons) and
alerting all departments as to the need for their inputs and actions.
*  Having the MoAD play a dual role: i) a proactive one in visiting and encouraging teams involved in
service improvements planning and implementation; and ii) providing a focal point for all plans and
initiative through a high level task force to which departmental teams present their plans (15 have
already been submitted to it) in order to gather suggestions, approvals and assistance in obtaining
decisions from individual ministers and the Council of Ministers



- 20 -
*  Publishing and disseminating 12 brochures describing the services offered, their requirements, their
locales and contact points; putting the equivalent information on the telephone network and starting
on web site planning.
*  Meticulously identifying the nature of services provided and the processes associated with them in 32
departments.
*  Inputting the services provided by 28 govemmental departments on computers in order to contribute
to the General Directory that will be printed.
* Conducted field visits at the end of the period in 34 governmental organizations and found that 21 had
numbered their offices; 34 had redone their signs; 41 had started providing the citizens with customer
service offices or information desks; and 18 had employees using identification badges.
78.   The action plans call for: expanding the initiatives taken to date to all govermnental
organizations; launching service delivery surveys; planning the sequence of targeting services among the
1,400 identified; complete coverage in the directories; setting up a way to assess and prioritize those
actions to improve services which may require legislative action; launching re-engineering of business
processes in departments which are already at the forefront of the service improvement initiatives such as
the Ministry of Trade; and establishing service standards that build upon improvement initiatives and that
will frame the services delivery surveys and assessments.
Outputs in 2001-02
The Action Plan to be supported by the PRSL-I loan during 2001-02 is as follows:
* Service Delivery Surveys conducted in five departments; methods refined and codified; use of
surveys planned for others.
*  Simplification of processes, improvements in access and quality in 15 additional departments.
*  Approval by the Council of Ministers of plans requiring regulatory changes to be effected
*  Analytical reporting on methods and results used and obtained so far; drawing lessons for expansion
and for sustained quality improvement activities.
*  Analysis of labor and training implications of the program (level and quality of staffing); elaborating
strategies for redeployment of personnel.
*  Publication of 15 new directory brochures; phone information access becomes fully operational;
experimental interactive web sites created for five services.
*  Bringing up to standards 15 new customers services offices; launching the initiative in all other
departments.
*  Conception and publication of service and performance standards for at least five departments.
C.6. Financial management and budgetary reforms
79.   Although work on budgetary reforms started four years ago, under the broad heading of
"performance budgeting", this field is specifically included as one of the priorities listed in the reform
plan presented to the King on May 23, 2000. This project aims to adopt a program-structured budget



- 21 -
allowing performance measurements and a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) with a
four-year horizon. The performance measurement aspects would complement other aspects of the public
sector reform such as the reform of civil service institutions in providing indispensable foundations for
the expanded managerial autonomy and accountability targeted in these other components. Budgetary
reforms have been supported by GTZ (DM 3 million budgeted in calendar 2001).
80.   Interesting work has been undertaken in this area, most notably in having departments specify
outputs against which they should be held accountable and which allow for the reconstruction of the
budget along functional/economic lines. However, this Public Sector Reform Track has accumulated
substantial delays and is seen as stalled or at least in serious difficulties. This situation for the moment
has had no consequences. This situation, for the moment, has had no consequences on the progress of
other reforms. Over the medium term however, the lack of tangible progress in this area is likely to
endanger the overall plan given the central position occupied by the institutions with allocating and
controlling resources.
81.   For the PSRL-I 2001-02 period, it is expected that the initiative on budgetary reforms will be
fully integrated with other tracks of public sector reform, notably with the institutional assessment work
which will be carried out at MoAD and the new appraisal systems for managers which will ensue from
the changes in civil services institutions. Such integration should provide enough impetus to re-launch
the initiative.
82.   Parallel initiatives in financial management are proceeding apace and are becoming fully
integrated with public sector reform. In particular, further to the CFAA conducted in conjunction with the
Bank, the whole area of audit has embarked upon substantial reforms. For instance, the (external,
parliamentary) Audit Bureau is withdrawing from all a priori authorization work and shifting away from
strict compliance audit to refocus on modern auditing tasks in the "value-for-money" mode. As
mentioned above (in the section on "Government restructuring"), the Inspection Bureau is being
integrated into the new MoAD and refocused on systems and institutions assessment.
83.   In mid-1999, a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was finalized: it has been
discussed with Jordanian authorities. While basically sound and transparent, the procurement institutions
in Jordan were in need of serious modernization, especially in modifying their protectionist slant, in order
for them to conform both with the new market-focused growth strategy and the new commercial treaties
signed by Jordan as the mainstay of its policy of opening up its economy. Discussions with Jordanian
authorities led to a comprehensive action plan which is now being progressively implemented. As
mentioned above, the central procurement functions will be rationalized in the context of the public sector
reform. The same holds for the training and management aspects of procurement (including the increased
accountability of line managers and ministries), improvements in complaints handling, setting up new
realistic review thresholds, and having the Audit Bureau concentrate exclusively on post facto audits.
Regulatory and legislative changes are proceeding.
Part m: THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    LOAN RATIONALE AND COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
84.   PSRL is the first in a series of three one tranche loans to support policy actions taken prior to
Board presentation. It is fully part of the 1999 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and it comes in the
wake of the program of ERDLs and complements the achievements realized under them. The 1999 CAS
identified public sector reform as a necessary complement to the broad economic reforms supported by
the ERDL program. As with ERDLs, the PSRL-I is phased to support macroeconomnic stability during the
reform implementation period.



- 22 -
85.    The in-depth reform of the core public sector is the last big item on the agenda of structural
reforms which has already tackled the role of the private sector, the liberalization of the economy and
privatization. In particular, this operation would lead to higher the living standards of the population by
improving access to services and by providing businesses with a more congenial environment for
investment and operations. The present operation is justified by the strong past performance and
excellent dialogue of the last years, the successes of past initiatives and the necessity to reform the public
sector in order to fully reap the benefits of the past six years in the modernization of trade policy and
economic framework legislation. In addition, as stated in the conclusion to the evaluation of ERDLs and
ESAL, a series of single tranche operations which disburse after agreed reforms are launched offer the
necessary flexibility for institutional reform programs with uncertain time lines and substantial
complexity.
86.    The macroeconomic rationale for a quick disbursing loan operation, in a programmatic
perspective, follows from Jordan's overall financing needs, its program of expenditures and debt
reduction agreed to with the IMF and its vulnerability to political development in a very unstable region.
With limited access to international capital markets, and a still narrow internal financial market, Jordan
relies on both bilateral and multilateral donors to ensure a stable external financing.
87.    The Public Sector Reform Loans (PSRLs) will support Jordan by providing the budgetary and
balance of payments stability needed while carrying out fundamental structural changes in its core public
sector. The recently signed commercial treaty with the EU, the accession to the WTO and the free-trade
treaty with the USA are key elements in Jordan's growth strategy with an open economy. The
implementation of these treaties requires substantial adjustments to the economy and entails revenue risks
for the state. Even though the pegging of the JD to the USD has led both to increasing the price of
Jordanian exports and to reduce uncertainty for investment, the political instability in the region makes
the country vulnerable to sudden capital flight and external financing constraints.
88.    By providing budgetary support, the proposed loan would reduce the risks of delays and
interruption in a difficult and lengthy process which is being carried out in an inherently shock-prone
economic and political environment. It would improve the level and quality of public services to better
position Jordan to attract foreign and domestic investment. This comes out clearly from the importance
given to regulatory reforms and to judicial reform. In both cases the purpose is to improve the stability
and predictability of the business environment. The proposed loan would also further the Government's
economic strategy which seeks to benefit from the increasing forces of globalization by positioning
Jordan as an efficient platform for more human resource-intensive exports of goods and service. The loan
would also help the Government improve services to households in areas such as education, property
registration, and all matters pertaining to compliance, from identity papers to taxes. The whole program
will require substantial changes in the public services supply arrangements.
89.    The initiatives supported by the Loan would further the economic strategy toward high GDP
growth supported by a robust export performance. This strategy is based on taking full advantage of the
recently signed treaties and providing a more open and favorable environment for investment. By
providing households with easier access to services, the policy package supported by the loan would
directly increase real incomes, enable faster progress in implementing the human resources-based
development strategy, and assist in promoting the political liberalization that has already provided a
democratic process for conflict resolution, thus contributing to social and political stability. Even more
directly, the increased productivity sought in the public sector would have an immediate positive impact
on growth, given the relative size of this sector. Expanding the role of the private sector is an explicit aim
of the reform program, both through the privatization program that has been underway for the past four
years for state-owned enterprises and through this new program which involves the more systematic use
of market mechanisms in the provision of what have been previously considered core public sector
services.



- 23 -
90.   Two risks are present:
* The main risk external to the public sector reform program itself is political and is associated with
reversals in the regional peace process. Macroeconomic stability may be adversely affected by
external shocks in terms of possible adverse capital movements or changes on the external demand
for Jordanian goods and services. The proposed programmatic series of PSRLs reduces this risk and
complements the actions of the IMF in providing additional budgetary room for maneuver to a
government embarking upon public sector reform, a set of changes which demand time and
persistence.
*  The second risk is inherent in the depth and comprehensive nature of the public sector reforms
initiated. Such programs are difficult everywhere because of the complexity and diversity of the
operations and the processes targeted, and because public sector arrangements reflects social and
political equilibriums which are imperfectly understood and whose modifications often have
unforeseen consequences. Also, public sector reform demands continuous efforts over a long period,
a difficult feat for any political system. In Jordan, the public sector has been used in the past as an
instrument for social policy and stability and reform thus requires strong political commitment and
patience to weather the transition. The programmatic frame for this loan, together with the expected
collaboration of other donors, can reduce this risk.
91.   The Government has maintained a delicate balance between economic reforms and political
stability since 1989. The Government's appreciation of the political feasibility of the reforms has been
factored into the program (e.g., in the phasing of reforms), as exemplified by the very high level of
ownership present over the past year and by focusing on services improvement, not downsizing, thereby
reducing risks to program implementation.
B.    FISCAL IMPACT OF THE REFORMS
92.   The net fiscal impact of the reforms is expected to be positive: the aims of the public sector
reform are both to improve the quality and access to public services and to reduce their costs by
increasing productivity.  Although some initial investment is required to achieve these gains in
productivity (for instance computerization of services, improving incentives, public information and lay-
outs of customer services offices); the amounts are modest in 2001-02: around US$8 million. And, as has
been the case since September 2000, these resources are being provided through internal re-allocation,
within the framework of the agreed upon overall expenditures reductions. In the short term, the fiscal
impact is basically neutral and in the medium term it should be positive.
C.    DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
93.   Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures approved by the Board on
February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open an account in the Central Bank of Jordan to be designated as
the Deposit Account. Upon effectiveness, proceeds will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the
request of the Borrower. If the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (e.g., to finance items
imported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Bank will
require the Borrower to either (i) return that amount to the Deposit Account to use for eligible purposes,
or (ii) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the loan. Although audited financial statements covering the Deposit Account is
not routinely required, the World Bank reserves the right to request it. The closing date for PSRL-I will
be December 31 5' 2001.



- 24 -
94.   During negotiations, discussions with the borrower took place about specific measures that will
help IBRD track the flow of funds from the Central Bank of Jordan to the borrower's budgetary accounts,
so as to ensure that these funds are used for eligible purposes and that withdrawals made from the Deposit
Account are made for purposes acceptable to the Bank. To achieve this objective , the following
procedures will be established:
a) The borrower will open and maintain a dedicated Deposit Account in the Central Bank of
Jordan to receive the proceeds of the adjustment credit;
b) The borrower will report the exact sum received into the Deposit Account;
c) The borrower will indicate to the Bank details of the Government's treasury account to which
the local currency equivalent of the loan proceeds will be credited. This account will be subject
to budgetary control;
d) The borrower will ensure that all withdrawals from the Deposit Account are for budgeted
expenditures, and not for purposes such as military expenditures or for other items on the Bank's
negative list;
e) The borrower will report to the Bank the equivalent in the local currency of the US$ amount
withdrawn from the Deposit Account producing evidence that the local currency sum estimated at
the prevailing CBJ rates for US$/JD, was paid into the treasury account used to fund budgetary
expenditures;
f) The borrower will submit regular reports on receipts and disbursements from the dedicated
Deposit Account to enable the Bank to review the consistency of these withdrawals with the Loan
Agreement and the objectives of the adjustment operation;
g) The borrower will provide the Bank with information regarding the Ternis of Reference for
carrying out regular audits and, their timing, and will provide auditors with access to the
necessary documentation and make its official and staff available for carrying out this audit.
Part IV: RECOMMENDATION
95.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 2001



POLICY ACTION MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
LEGAL AND        Actions taken prior to Board    Actions supported by the loan in 2001-2002      Medium-term plans and objectives
JUDICIAL
REFORM                (June 21st, 2001)
Commercial    Arbitration   Code  submitted  to  Arbitration code is adopted by Council of Improving access to altemative means of dispute
Dispute       Council of Ministers.             Ministers  and   passed  in  Parliament; resolution by private sector operatives, and devising
Resolution                                      dissemination  to the public and specific  a tool for effective reduction of the judicial system's
stakeholder groups.                       backlog for commercial litigation.
Modernization  Start  upgrading  (computers  and  Complete  basic  upgrading  in  Amman  Building on the effort made at the Amman palace of
of the court    clerical  personnel)  capacity  for (software,   procedures,  computers  and justice, approached as a pilot, implementation of
system        modern case processing at Amman  personnel) as a first step in establishing a fully  complete action plan for a country- wide court and
Palace of Justice.                fledged case and court management system. case management system.
Complete study and plans for national
implementation.
Incentives for  Adoption by the Council of Ministers Presentation to Parliament of legislation to  Enhancing the standing of magistrates, reducing
judges        of a policy for the improvement of modernize  judges'  working   conditions judicial backlog, ensuring quality and expediency in
judges' compensation.             (including issues relating to remuneration, judicial administration.
career development, training, and professional
Ministry of Justice provided with  status and ethics) in order to promote better Modernizing training and upgrading competence of
budgetary resources for improvement performance and service delivery.       legal professions in order to offer a competitive
of the judges' financial situation in                                       (rapid, predictable, transparent) judicial system for
the short term.                                                             citizens and businesses.
Training and   Draft law  reforming the Judicial Present the law reforrning the Judicial Institute  Provide the judicial system with candidates which
professional   Institute, further to a complete review  to Parliament.                    are well-trained at the outset, well-versed in recent
standards     of this institution being submitted to                                      commercial laws; ensure continuous upgrading of
Council of Ministers.             Produce the implementation/operational plans   skills and mobilize coherently the various
for the transformation of the Institute and for    organizations which can contribute to this training.
the changes required in the rest of the legal
training system (university, auxiliaries, etc.)
CD
x
ON 



POLICY ACTION MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
CIVIL SERVICE          Actions taken prior to Board    Actions supported by the loan in 2001-2002     Medium-term actions and objectives
REFORM                       (June 21st 2001)
New Civil Service     New Civil Service By-Law      Implementation of civil service law: regulations   More transparent HR management in the civil
Bylaw                 prepared, submitted for       on (i) implementation of new selection criteria    service, more efficient and transparent promotion
approval to the Council of   and procedures for applicants, (ii) new appraisal,  practices, more effective management of the
Ministers.                   performance criteria and career management.  work force; greater capability to adapt to
changing demands and to the empowering of the
Testing and institutionalizing those new     users in a market economy.
procedures, design for assessing implementation.
More meritocratic civil service, especially in
Implementing the new procedures for hiring and  terms of promotions and  dismissals. More
assessing senior executives.                 incentive for qualified civil servants to remain
and unqualified/uncooperative civil servants to
leave the public workforce.
Management of civil    Data collection to create a  Finalize computerized database leading to an  A civil service capable of attracting the required
service               comprehensive civil service   improved reliability in HR record keeping.   candidates  in  the  face  of national  and
database is undertaken.                                                   intemational  competition  because  it offers
challenging work, equitable and transparent
Lists and qualifications of civil  Full online information about access to jobs in  conditions and encourages movements with other
service applicants are placed    the public sector. A study to produce a complete  sectors.
online.                      plan on its use.
Civil service fully integrated in the opening up of
Launch   of   English   and  Expand such training to the whole of the  the Jordanian economy and its human resources-
computer literacy training for managerial classes.                        based growth strategy.
managers (400 trained)
Pay Reform            Initial reform of pay structure, In-depth review of the pay structure is conducted  Pay structure becomes a more adequate means of
including granting higher pay  (relativities, incentives, role of pension rights and  incentive for qualified personnel; especially in
for educators.               structure of allowances). Draft action plan for areas where there is generally a shortage of
pay reform  is devised. New  pay scales for qualified personnel.  It also is designed to
judges, doctors and educators are implemented.   adequately reward performance.
tQ



POLICY ACTION MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
GOVERNMENT              Actions taken prior to Board    Actions supported by the loan in 2001-2002   Medium-term actions and objectives
RESTRUCTURING                (June 21st, 2001)
Creation of the       Complete plans submitted to     Council of Minister's approval secured.   Fully  operational management organization
Ministry of           Council of Ministers.                                                     which monitors performance and acts as a
Administrative                                        Implementation: set-up the Ministry, transfer permanent  stimulus  for  improvements  in
Development and Civil                                 and train personnel in the new  policies; ministries; identifies  system-wide  needs  in
Service                                               reorganize training activities management in  training and manages procurement of training for
JIPA; develop institutional assessment tools  those needs; assists departments in assessing
and criteria and disseminate/explain them; specific training needs and satisfying them;
expand  English  and  computer  literacy  conceives and manages personnel policies.
training.
Launch 2 studies: i) on training needs; ii) on
provision of training (JIPA, Universities,
private sector) and the management of
outsourcing and the respective roles of JIPA
and ministries.
Procurement           Start design of single unit for Approval by Council of Ministers of the plans Having  the   new   organization  improve
organizations         streamlining       procurement for a new streamlined organization dealing  procurement in  terms of transparency  and
functions,  submit  preliminary  with  procurement  functions  and  start efficiency; institute and carry out appraisals to
plans of action to key stakeholders, implementation of the changes.       assess progress and continuous adaptation to
taking  into  account the work                                            circumstances, in place in 2003-04.
undertaken under the Country
Procurement Appraisal Report
(CPAR).
Investment promotion   Design single unit streamlining the  Legislation is prepared, approved by Council Greater effectiveness, lower costs in investment
activities            functions now dispersed among 4  of Ministers and presented to Parliament.  promotion, easier monitoring of activities and
organizations. Submit preliminary                                         greater capacity to adapt to the changing
plans of action to Council of                                             circumstances brought about by the treaties with
Ministers.                                                                the USA and the EU.
>.
mj CD
n 



POLICY ACTION MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
Ministrv of Education
1. Testing Center    Planning work, preliminary design, A study on market for testing is completed.    The unit will be a center of expertise in testing
and     consultations    with                                           and will produce services in the field not only for
stakeholders for the creation of Full design and implementation plans for the MoE but for all potential clients in Jordan
the Testing Center.            Testing Center are presented to Council of and in the Region, private and public.
Ministers for approval.
2. Teachers' appraisal   Preparation  of  appraisal  and  Draft evaluation and appraisal instruments for The objective is to have the Ministry of
procedures            evaluation procedures specific to  teachers are  tested  and discussed  with  Education concentrate on its key objectives of
educators.                     stakeholders.                            programs and their adaptation and of having a
specialized expert unit take over for these
personnel the monitoring appraisal functions in a
more efficient fashion than the MoE or the Civil
Service Commission could ever hope to achieve.
as 
x



POLICY ACTION MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
IMPROVING               Actions taken prior to Board    Actions supported by the loan in 2001-2002    Medium-term actions and objectives
PUJBLIC SERVICES              (June 21st 2001)
Simplification of public  Implementation   of   processes  Launch  Service  Delivery  Surveys  in  5  Make improvement of services to businesses and
service procedures    simplification  measures  in  15  departments: design, carry out and assess, the public an on-going, decentralized function
government departments (under draw   lessons  from   first  round   of inside ministries.
ministerial authority.)         simplifications, and use such instruments to
tailor next round of procedure simplifications.  Have identified and launched actions for all
improvements not requiring legislative changes
Simplification  of processes in  15  other before 2004.
government departments: implementation of
all those measures under ministerial authority;
proposal to Council of Ministers for those
measures under Council of Minister's
authority.
Analysis of labor needs and qualifications
resulting from simplification program
(level and quality of staffing).
Experimental publication of service standards
in 5 departments; assigning responsibility for
elaborating such standards and for quality
control in their design and use.
Transparent           Building  an  inventory  of the  20 Additional directories published        Cover the whole range of services offered by the
information on public   salient characteristics of 1,400                                          public sector; insure that up to date and adequate
services              services in 32 departments for the  Websites  and  telephone  based  system  information is available to users.
purpose of better information to  operational for those  services directories
the public.                     which have been printed.
Publication of Service Directories
for 11 departments; Launch of
______________________  directories  online.
aq
CD0
O (



POLICY ACTION MATRIX FOR THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
Departmental customer  Setting  up  of first group  of Having such customer services offices in all Complement the initiative on informing users to
services offices to the    services bureaus (front-offices.)    34 departments and conforming to standards:  save their time and insure they obtain all the
public                                                  identification of personnel, resources to offer  services they are entitled to.
Assessment of such services in 34  guidance to users, signs, improve layouts.
departments.
FINANCIAL              Actions taken prior to Board     Actions supported by the loan in 2001-2002  Medium-term action and objectives
MANAGEMENT             (June 21st)
AND BUDGETARY
REFORM
Preliminary   identification   of Implementation of first phase of budgetary  MTEF fully implemented at the center and in
departmental outputs.           reform: outputs capable of sustaining  a  ministries.
program structure for expenditures.
Planninlg   for   MTEF    and
performance measurement.         Firm  timetable and plan for implementing
program structure and MTEF.
Plan designed to link financial accountability
and autonomy with performances and with the  Unified set of appraisal criteria for individuals
rules under the new Civil Service Bylaw.   and institutions.
Launch study on performance management
system.                                    Performance management system in place and
used. Arrangements for assessment and fine-
tuning in place.
CD



CAS Annex B8 - Jordan
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of May 9 2001
Closed
Projects                                  57
IBRD/IDA
Total Disbursed (Active)                   116.60
of which has been repaid             3.14
Total Disbursed (Closed)                   1,529.00
of which has been repaid             869.30
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)          1,645.58
of which has been repaid             872.39
Total Undisbursed (Active)                 173.68
Total Undisbursed (Closed)                 0.70
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)        174.38
Active Proiects                                                                                                                        Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                          Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                       Original Amount in USS Millions                Disbursements "
Project ID  Project Name                     Develob ment  Implementation   Fiscal Year   IBRD        IDA    GRANT    Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
Obiectives    Proaress
P049581   COMMUNITY INFRA.DEV.                    S             S           1998            30         0         0         0       20.3      19.3      20.1
P005237  GULF OF AQABA EAP                        S             S            1996            0         0        2.7         0         1       -0.2      0.4
P005319  HEALTH II                                S             S            1993           20         0         0          0       2.5       2.4       1.7
P039749  HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                     S             S            1999           35         0         0          0      27.5      -0.9         0
P005307   HUMAN RES. DEVT. SIL                    S             S            1995           60         0         0         0       14.5      14.5         0
P048521  JO-AMMAN WATER & SANITATION              S             S            1999           55         0         0         0       41.3      16.3         0
P069326  JO-HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOP              S             S           2000           34.7        0         0          0      33.4      -0.3        0
P005323  JO-HOUSING FINANCE/URBAN                 S             S            1997           20         0         0          0       7.4       7.4         0
P035997  JO-SECOND TOURISM DEV.                   S             S            1998           32         0         0          0      23.1        13         0
P049706   ODS PHASEOUT II                         S             S            1997            0         0        3.5         0       1.5       1.5         (
P052297  TRAINING & EMPL.                         S             S            1998            5         0         0          0       3.8       2.1         0
Total                                                                                     291.7        0        6.2         0     176.1      75.1      22.1
CD
oX
_ ;_



Annex III
Page 1 of 1
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Jordan
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                     Disbursed
FY Approval Company            Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1998     AIHC                    0    3.6      0      0      0    3.6      0      0
1987/90/93/95 Al-Hikma               0      0   0.68      0      0      0   0.34      0
1994     Al-Keena Paper       3.43      0      0      0   3.43      0      0      0
1997     BTC                     4      1      0      0      4      1      0      0
2001     Boscan Jordan           8      0      0      0      8      0      0      0
1997     El-Zay               3.93      0      0      0   3.93      0      0      0
1995    Indo-Jordan             22      0      0      0     22      0      0      0
1998     JHTC                   10      0      0      0     10      0      0      0
1998    JVC                      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
1998    Jordinvest               0   1.41      0      0      0   1.41      0      0
1999     MAICO                   0      1      0      0      0   0.75      0      0
2000     MEIB                    0      0   2.15      0      0      0   2.15      0
1996     MODAL                2.57      0      0      0   2.57      0      0      0
1996     Zara                14.65   2.97      0      0  14.65   2.97      0      0
Total Portfolio:                  73.58   9.98   2.83      0  68.58   9.73   2.49      0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
2001     Boscan Jordan         0.0    1.0   0.0   0.0
2000     CAG Fund              0.0   10.0   0.0   0.0
1998    JVC                    0.0    0.0    0.0   8.0
1999    Jordan Life            0.0    0.7    0.0   0.0
2000     MEIB Recapital.       0.0    2.2    0.0   0.0
Total Pending Commitment:           0.0   13.9    0.0   8.0



Annex IV
Page l of2
Jordan at a glance                                                             9/12t00
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         & North   middle-
Jordan     Africa  income      Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      4.7       291     2,094                 Life expectancy
GNP Per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 1,430     2,060     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, uS$ billions)                     6.7       599     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                       3.1        2.1      1.1
Labor force (%)                                      3.6        3.0      1.2     GNP   I                         Gross
per              I             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty fine)  12        ..        .
Urban population (% of total population)              74        58        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      71        68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              27        45        33
Child malnutrition (Y of children under 5)             5        15        15               Access to safe water
Access to Improved water source (I% of populatIon)     ..       71        86
Illiteracy (I% of population age 15+)                 11        36        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  71       95       114        -Jordan
Male                                                70       102       114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              72        88       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998     1999
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                           3.3     4.1        7.3      7.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP               31.6    23.7       23.5     22.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          34.8    57.3       48.6      47.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 -20.5     5.0        2.4      2.8
Gross national savings/GDP                 28.6    28.8        22.3     22.5
Current account balance/GDP                 -0.2     4.4       -1.2      0.2     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        1.6     5.8        5.8      5.0     D      i_vestment
Total debt/GDP                              46.6   173.4      105.6    107.3     Savings
Totaldebtservice/exports                     8.1    19.7       11.1     14.5
Present value of debttGDP                     ..      ..    102.4
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    138.6
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.7      4.9      1.7       1.6      3.8               Jordan
GNP per capita                     -1.9      0.8    -1.5       -5.0      1.0               Lower-middle-incomne group
Exports of goods and services       6.4      7.2     2.8        2.8      3.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998     1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(I% of GDP)                                                                      20
Agriculture                                  7.0     6.6        3.2      2.5     2
Industry                                   27.7    26.7        24.8     25.1       ii
Manufacturing                             15        2         3.       113.88                              '
Services                                    65.4    66.7       72.0     72.4    -10           95           5
Private consumption                        86.1    68.9        71.2     70.6   -20
General government consumption              34.4    26.1       26.4     26.6               -    GDo    -,*-GDP
Imports of goods and services              86.9    76.1        69.7     67.1
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports 1Y%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  7.8    -0.8        8.4    -20.0    20
Industry                                     3.0     5.8       -2.5      2.8
Manufacturing                              0.9      6.3       2.8       2.0  sx
Services                                    2.0      4.5        2.2      2.3
Private consumption                         2.1      4.3        0.5     -0.2                 95
General government consumpton                3.5      5.4      -2.3      1.3
Gross domestic investment                   -1.0      3.2     -13.4     -3.7   -10
Imports of goods and services                2.4     5.4       -5.5     -1.1            -     Exports   - -mports
Gross national product                       1.8     5.1        1.3      -2.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
Jordan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      199t      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                               14.4     25.7       3.1       0.6     6
Implicit GDP deflator                       -16.3      21.0       3.0       0.6     4
Government finance                                                                  2
I% of GOP, includes current,grants)                                                 a,
Current revenue                              62.0      45.9      32.5      33.5            94    95    96    97   96    99
Current budget balance                          ..    14.3       -0.1       2.8            -     GDP deflator   4  Cpt
Overall surplus/deficit                         ,,      5.3      -7.0       -4.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           403    1.110      1,802     1,817    s.ooo
Phosphates                                   71        85       167       187
Other minerals                               88       255       157       178      4,00                  || E l n
Manufactures                                 98       444       684       748      3.000 .        1111*           1
Total imports (cifl                         1,963    2,141      3,839     3,817     2.sae    *             E*         E
Food                                        361       344       751       681
Fuel and eneray                             246       355       355       466      1.0a IUJU E E U E E
Capital goods                               645       456       832       747
Export price index (1995-100)                  96       82         98        96           93  94  95  90  97  98   99
Import pnce index (1995=100)                  104       90        113       110                  *Exports      aImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      92       91         87        87
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998       1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
(UJSS millions)
Exports of goods and services               1,134    2,350      3,548     3,520      3
Imports of qoods and services               2,746    3,152      5,089     4,979
Resource balance                            -1,612    -802     -1,541    -1,459      o
Net income                                     37     -195       -250      -532     -3
Net currenttransfers                        1,568    1,179      1,701     2,004
Current account balance                        -7      183        -89        13         I
Financinq items (net)                         207      364        346       505
Changes in net reserves                      -200     -547       -257      -518    -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      1,248      756      1,409     1,903
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              0.3       0.6       0.7       0.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       ComposItIon of 1999 debt (USS mill)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed        1,523    7,157      7,715     8,008
IBRD                                          4      412        721       835                           A: 635
IDA                                          67       78         63        60                                 8:50
F: I
Total debt service                            148      594        599       796                                     430
IBRD                                          0       75        110       115
IDA                                           1        2          2         3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   D: 881
Official grants                           1.106      216        272
Official creditors                          213      317        236       209
Private creditors                            51      517         30       104
Foreign direct investment                    26       -1        310        54
Portfolio equity                              0        0         11       154                  E: 4106
World Bank program
Commitments                                  15       73          5       210     A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                17       52         36       161      B - IDA    0 - Other mulSlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0       43         66        68      C- IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    17        9        -30        93
Interest payments                             1       34         46        50
Net transfers                                16      -25        -76        43
World Bank                                                                                                            9112100



Annex V
Page I of 2
Jordan - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                 Estimate              Projected
Indicator                1996    1997    1998       1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                    100     100      100       100     100      100       100      100     100
Agriculture                                4        3        3        2        2        2        2        2        2
Industry                                  26       25       25       26       25       25       26       26       25
Services                                  71       72       72       72       73       72       72       72       72
Total Consumption                           95      97       98       97       96       96       95       94       92
Gross domestic fixed investment            29       26       21       20       22       23       23       23       23
Governnent investment                      7        6        6        5        6        6        6        6        6
Private investment                        22       20       16       15       17       17       17       17       17
Exports (GNFS)b                            52       49       45       44       44       44       44       43       43
Imports (GNFS)                              77      71        64      62       63       62       61        60      58
Gross domestic savings                       5       3         2        3       4        4        5         6       8
Gross national savingsc                     28      27       24        25      25       25       25        26       9
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                   7109    7324    7959    8073    8340          8925    9550    10219   10843
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)        1620    1610      1630     1630    1790     1780    1800       1880
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domestic productatmarketprices     2.1      3.1      2.9      3.1      3.9      3.9      4.4      4.4      3.5
Gross Domestic Income                     1.9     3.5      2.6      3.3      3.6      3.7      4.3      4.3      3.4
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -1.0     0.0     -0.2      0.0      0.8      0.9      1.5      1.7
Total consumption                        5.4      2.6      1.9      0.0    -1. 1      0.2      0.7       1.0
Private consumption                      6.7      1.6      3.8      -0.6    -0.4      0.5      0.6      0.9
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                         3663    3572    3548    3520    3702    3916    4159    4433    4687
Merchandise FOB                       1817    1836      1802     1817    1922    2048    2188    2354    2493
Imports (GNFS)b                         5416    5186    5089    4979    5253    5538    5840    6176    6286
Merchandise FOB                       3817    3647    3414    3466    3677    3903    4143    4411    4517
Resource balance                        -1753   -1613    -1541    -1459   -1551    -1622    -1682    -1743   -1600
Netcurrenttransfers                     1832    1851      1701    2004      1957    1990    2108    2217         322
Current account balance                 -222       29       22      390      242      197      248      289   -1448
Net private foreign direct investment     59      180       189     154      243      422      538      635      633
Long-term loans (net)                    -84    -226       266      313      326      182       23        -9     -84
Official                                393      258      145      155       37      -66    -203       -289    -368
Private                                 -477    -484      121      158      289      248      226      280      284
Other capital (net, incl. errors & onmmissions)  371  720    -296    69      -80    -307    -441        -476   -1298
Change in reservesd                      -123    -704     -180      -926    -731     -494    -368       -439    2197
Memiiorandumiii items
Resource balance (% of GDP)              -24.7   -22.0    -19.4   -18.1   -18.6    -18.2   -17.6    -17.1    -14.8
Real annual growth rates ( YR85 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                -2.4      4.1      4.0      4.5      4.2      4.1      4.7      5.5      3.9
Primary
Manufactures                             0.3      5.3    -4.3      13.4      4.7      3.5      4.0      5.0      5.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)                 7.7    -2.3      -5.9     -0.5      2.5      3.1      3.6      3.9      0.0
(Continued)



Annex V
Page 2 of 2
Jordan - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate              Projected
Indicator               1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)"
Current revenues                       33.1    31.2    29.8    31.0    30.3    29.4    30.9    30.5    29.7
Current expenditures                   29.1    28.7    29.9    28.4    28.2    27.6    27.4    27.2    27.0
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  4.1  2.5    -0.1      2.6     2.0      1.8      3.5     3.3      2.7
Capital expenditure                     7.0      5.5     6.4      6.4     6.0      5.9      6.3     6.4      6.4
Foreign financing                       4.4      1.1     0.2      1.8     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                103.9   107.4   106.4   117.9   127.7   131.3   134.8   138.0   140.6
Growth of M2 (%)                        0.3      7.8     7.6    12.4    11.9    10.1        9.8     9.6      8.1
Private sector credit growth/         177.0   136.2    40.4    75.7    57.7    81.8   139.7   416.2   276.8
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR85 =100)
Merchandise export price index        103.0   100.0    94.4    91.1    92.5    94.6    96.5    98.4   100.4
Merchandise import price index        102.3   100.0    99.1    97.1   100.5   103.5   106.0   108.6   111.3
Merchandise terms of trade index      100.7   100.0    95.2    93.8    92.0    91.4    91.0    90.6    90.2
Real exchangerate(US$/LCU) r           91.7   100.0   107.9   109.1   112.4   112.9   112.9   112.9   112.9
Real interest rates
Consumerprice index (%change)           6.5      3.1     3.1      0.6     5.1      2.9      2.4     2.4      3.0
GDP deflator (% change)                 2.2      1.1     5.6    -1.6    -0.6       3.0      2.5     2.5      2.5
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex VI
k-52tP~VAt..                      Page 1 of 6
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                   X                i; O:AJI i.i.i. :JIl i4L.1JI
OF JORDAN
MINLSTRY OF PLANNING                             M    16
A_AN                                    M        1   2001
Ref.No . lh//    / 9 {.X/,,W ,.8 ..tJ<A.>      
Date./61.. L.QJ..C
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank Group
Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Dear W. Wolfensohn;
This letter is to request the World Bank's financial support for the
first stage of a comprehensive medium term program of public sector
reform that the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan has
initiated.
The Bank's support would provide the Government with the
flexibility it needs in a difficult external environment to ensure that the
successes already achieved in the public sector reform program can be
extended, and that the government can sustain the multiyear efforts
needed to bring it to fruition, just as Jordan has done in the last five years
to move to an open economy and a market-led growth strategy.
The first part of this letter characterizes the Govemment efforts and
achievements in structural changes since 1995; tha second shows how
public sector reform will complete those actions.
As you know, Jordan is a small country with few resources beyond
its people, and to survive and prosper in an economically and politically
volatile region presents a huge challenge.
Since the economic crisis of the late 1980s and the Gulf War,
Jordan has met this challenge with a development strategy that has
emphasized fiscal stability and pragmatic but far-reaching market
liberalization and greater citizen participation in the country's affairs.
Since 1996, after a period of considerable expansion, Jordan has
been experiencing a period of slow growth which has provided a
challenge in our continuing efforts at fiscal stabilization. Nonetheless,
"'i I N \L..     -,p W v- NP  t\5, >- EsTLY-11BUN :,4U-MsT\fff5.tA\/-
TeL (9626)4667043811S5 - Teletaf:46493414642247. CAble. NC o - Tlex: 21319 NPC  -P.0.ox 555A   11115 Jr an
E-Mail: mopQmop.govjo                   %.   I
so 3SVod                 9NINVId JO'NIW            Tbe6b9b-9-696   Et :ZT T00ZUST/S0



Annex VI
Page 2 of 6
THE HASHEMITIE KINGDOM                                        u"&L=Iu~Jul ;Al i6,all
OF JORDAN                           '  
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
ANUAN                      to                                    a
Ref.No.  ................................. .                       .     . .........
Date ..............
.............. .. B.. _. _. 1 
through a tight monetary policy underpinned by pegging the national
currency to the U.S. dollar, we have kept inflation to a consistently low
level in recent years  and have continued to receive the supportofan
Extended Financial Facility from the IM.
During that period, we have carried out a sustained program of
structural  reform  that  emphasizes fnancial sector reform, trade
liberalization, regulatory refonn, and privatization. We are presently
engaged in the process of finalizing an ambitious legislative and
regulatory program to improve the business cIimate and the attractiveness
of Jordan to foreign and domestic investments. We have also made great
strides in the area of intemational trade policy, in. particular through
membership in the WTO since 2000, a Partnership Agreement with the
European Union (September 1999), and a Free Trade Agreement with the
United States expected to.be ratified in the very near future. These treaties
are a key element of our economic reform strategy involving a rapid
passage from what had been essenitially a close and largely administered
economy to an open, market-led economy closely integrated into global
markets.
We are grateful for the World Bank's full support of these
structural reforms, in particular through the series of three Economic
Reform Development Loans (ERDLs) granted since 1995.
We have made solid progress in stabilizing the economy,
introducing market-oriented reforms, and integrating Jordan into the
World economy. But the process of reform is not yet finished. In keeping
with the practices in'most countries, the reform of the core public sector
must now complete it. The country must increase its ability to provide
effective public services to businesses and households as well as
implement efficiently, on a day-to-day basis, the massive regulatory and
legislative changes it has effected.
;, Sti  I85v I I IA 6LNPj  ser\5L,NP       1-% I YV'Iv- .E%T E %1 E E(LY\     1115/Y.-Il E rAN/Ao :ZXb
Tel. (9626) 4644470w-4644381/85 - Telefax :4649341-4642247- Cable: NPC Jo - Telex: 21319 NPC Jo. - P.O.Box 555 Amman 11118 Jordan
E-Mail: mop@mop.govjo                         , j o
b0 39Vd                     9NINV'3d JCI NIW            TVE6ts9V-9-Z96    Et :ZT T00Z/9tl50



Annex VI
Page 3 of 6
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                     X                  '    i      J-I =Jl  i
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                   1   5ii
AMMAN
Ref.No.                            .............................._......1
Date ...................... .
.  ._   -.      - {3iLIA
Modem public services and regulations are key to an efficient,
investor-friendly business environment, just as an effective judiciary is
key to resolving private disputes. But Jordan also pressingly needs better
public services if it is to respond to the social needs of its citizens. It
needs a civil service that is more productive and more responsive, fully
capable of reducing to a minimum the bureaucratic burdens the citizens
have to cope with. It needs to manage public financial resources in ways
that promote efficient, transparent, and accountable use of public money,
lead to better planning, and provide better oversight of how public money
is spent.
Up to now Jordan has reformed its public sector fimctions in areas
of immediate complementarity to its trade policy and economic
framework legislation, for instance in privatization, and customs and a
limited range of services to business. The time has now come to
modernize in depth the core public sector, because it is being increasingly
required by the opening of the economy and increasingly demanded by
citizens.
In 2000  the Govemment identified the following areas where
reforn was needed in the medium term:
Raising the efficiency  of public services and improving their
accessibility and quality.
Modemizing financial management and budgetary processes.
Transforming human resources management in the public sector to
allow it to be a full contributor to growth, with civil servants
operating in a performance led environment.
Strengthening transparency and accountability in all aspects of the
state operations.
Developing the use of information technology as a focal point of
human resources growth strategy with the public sector being fully
in tune to the best practices in this field.
Tel. (9626) 464446670-46443S1/85 - Tekfax: 4649341.4642247- Cable: NPC Jo - Telex: 21319 NPC Jo. - P.03ox 555 Amman 11118 Jordan
E-Mail mopomop.govjo                     'iA/@  , 
so 39vd                   9NINVId dO'NIW             Tb6b9b-9-Z96  E :zr TOOZ/9T/90



Annex VI
Page 4 of 6
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                                      "o ..&l 4JI a"L4I
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
AMMAN
Ref.No ..................... . .                                    ...... . ... .........
D ate  ........... ...............................                  .... I--... . ......... ..... ._bW
Da. _  ,.. .... ...  - -----1
The Govemment's approach to public-sector reform is
comprehensive, yet it is pragmatic and realistic. While it
recognizes the need for action in many areas, if reform is to
succeed, the approach is flexible, attacking those areas where the
opportunities best present themselves, and it is guided by broad
principles, rather than by detailed blueprints. The approach is
incremental and emphasizes self-diagnosis and consensus as a basis
for durable reform.
With this letter, the Government wishes to seek the World
Bank's support for the above program through a series of three
program  loans for Public Sector Reform  (PSRL), following the
successful example of the program of ERDLs.
The first of these PS:RLs would cover the following aspects
of the above program, which have been launched in the summer of
2000 and where substantial achievements can already be observed:
Reform of the judicial sector has initiated the process of reforming
the Judicial Institute, has effected a first improvement in the system
of remunerating judges, modernized Amman's courts by
computerizing parts of its operations and improving facilities, has
begun a process of better dissemination of, and access to, legal and
judicial information, and has initiated work laying the basis for
further improvements in enforcement of court decisions and legal
drafting.
The reform of civil service institutions will lead to the
implementation of a comprehensive new civil service By-Law
(among other tihings improving the regime for hiring, assessing and
paying senior civil servants), initiate a process of pay adjustnents
for skills in short supply in education and health, improve the data
base required to moderiize the management of human resources,
and start a comprehensive review of the government compensation
structLres.
Tel. (9626) 4644466f-464391/S5 - Telefax: 4649341-4642247- Cable: NPC Jo - Telex: 21319 NPC Jo.. P.OXoX 555 Amman 1118 Jodan
E-Mail: mop6mop.govjo                        vi   ZI-
go 39qvd                    9NINVId -40'NIW              Tb6b9b-9-Z96    Et :Z1  100Z/9T/Gol



Annex VI
Page 5 of 6
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                               '    "   'h-'
AMM4AN
Ref.No. ... .... ........... . ......._    ....
D ate    .................... .....__...............
._ .......-.... _.l1
Government restructuring  initiatives, in  this first phase will
complete and rationalize the govermment's oversight of
administrative development (including procurement and the civil
service), unify the government's invest'nent-promotion activities,
and initiate improvements of testing and appraisal processes in the
Ministry of Education.
.I'mprovements in services to the public have already been achieved
in 15 departnents in improving access to services for the public, in
simplifring procedures and clarifying them, in providing guidance
to citizens; the initiatives will be expanded to the whole of
govemrnmental services. In some departnents, this stream will lead
to the re-engineering of processes. A systematic program of
improvements in public information (through use of the Intemet,
telecommunications, and written media) is underway; the coming
year will see its expansion and the development of service
standards  empowenng  users  in  a number of govenment
departments.
The above actions are at or near fruition, including improvements
to public services and a new civil service By-law. They are
underpinned by a communications strategy, now being put in place,
to promote public participation, transparency, and consensus.
Implementing this program will require resources, while the
program of expenditure restraint is being vigorously pursued. This
has meant careful prioritization and demonstrates the importance
the govermment attached to the public sector reform progrm. For
the reform of the judicial sector, the budgetary resources that have
already been allocated are substantial because of the need for
capital investments in court buildings and information technology.
In the other components, resources required have been more
modest, because of the incremental nature of the reforms and heavy
uj@fl 8\^ s1 * _*-,NPC*\\ sh *>_NM i-EIrritY-Eltwr\o T   -i (5YE LtM/Y.-MITAl/As Zt-L
ThL (9626) 4644466W704644381/85 -Telefax: 4649341-4642247- Cable: NPC Jo -Telkx 21319NPC 1o. - P.O.Box 555 Amn 11118 Wrdan
E-MaiLk mopQmop.gov.Jo                        /
Le 39vd                     E)NINV-1d 40O NIW           T06609V-9-Z96  E :ZI  WOU0 T/9135



Annex VI
Page 6 of 6
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                                                      a.  jiji
OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
AMMAN
Ref.No.    ................................... ..                    . _.._.__._ ..............
Date ......................                                         .... .........
use of internal resources. The coming year will see.a prudent
expansion of resources devoted to the other streams, a continued
emphasis on mobilizing internal resources not only to economize
but to build long-lasting ownership. Donor grants, especially in
technical assistance, will be vigorously pursued:
As you can appreciate, the Govermment of the Hashemite
Kingdom  of Jordan is firmly committed to the program  it has
designed and published for public sector reform outlined above and
it would welcome the World Bank's assistance. A programmatic
loan would provide us with the budgetary flexibility that would
enable us to implement fundamental structural changes in the
public sector while continuing to maintain the successes achieved
in stabilization and in opening the economy. Such a loan would
reduce the particular risks Jordan faces in its political and
economic environment and it would help improve the competitive
position of the Jordanian economy and the welfare of its citizens.
4-~ -/
Sninoerely your  
Jawddid
Minister of Planning
cc. MOF
cc. CenuIl Bank
cc. Multilateral Coopeation Department.
%Ai 68^L- oe         NPC sr,  tNPC t-,  -  ' Lzsv-t,% IM   '4 ,=- (5f-N) E% IIt11/Y-11 I IrA%/A  -CL&
Tel. (9626) 46444660X-464439145 - Tlefax 4649341-4642247- Cable: NPC Jo - Telx: 21319 NPC Jo. - P.O.Box 555 Amman 11118 Jordan
E-Mail: mop@mop.govjo
ea  39EUd                    9NINV-Id 30 NIW              TbE6690-9-Z96    Et :ZI 100Z/91/90



IBRD 29234
35~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 3~~~~~~7'                        3                               39'
K  g               1Ls                                                                                  / 1                   \
33/                                                                                                                                                              33-
-~~~~~~ ~~Lake.
T,ber,as
/                ;          a5L                                              '            <         ;      ,              %~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
R~~~~
- ~  ~       ~     ~      U~n                                                                                                    - '  he    ,    tAM      0d\ ~E-
t 19   .'1'     1nnusco                                                                                  10Bn
tA     A~Ion   AI3ch frak*    '-.                      '   \
44          o _N~           "-r I ~ _,otoo Hel                                                                           7   -   ol
Ail~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Al MIn, K h RAK      \\  _A/,                                  o       M      R
-31 '5 : ;                                      ''--''}86>                       t"'              ''                                                              31
-~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                                                 -- ! er                    -< ----            32' 
I M- ~  ~           ~           ~          ~          -
K~~~~
31                                                                                                                                                              31 tsJcns/ ,,=
Lt HJ  '   /                      /IO                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
jv : ) ,/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
nAqr bq   ;   \        ,/                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPRESSWAYS
& g(   ~'         ~       AlMudo orw i Mh                                                                        ROADS
(3 troAtsr,''''' ,                                                                                                 RAILROADS
-29'                        55                          5MLS                                          ---Z -   PERENNIAL RIVERS AND STREAMS                        29'
--------- AT]                                                   -------- -- INTERMITTENT STREAMS AND WADIS
0 o     25      50       75      100      125 KILOMETERS                                                                ADTW
q hsmap was produced by the Map Design Unit of The world Bank.                        ~~GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
he baundaries, colors, denaminations and any other information shown
a on this map da not imply, an the part of The World Bank Group, any                       -  - -   - P I             NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ojudgment on  the legalstatus of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
335                              360                               37'                                38'                               39'
DECEMBER 1997



