Doc'sment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C~~~~~~~~~1-/Z k~/1J'b/i
Report No. 11327-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND MULTI-STATE ROADS PROJECT
MARCH 16, 1993
w. +'T ,-       r ;i   ,_ 
.       : .            9            '4a, rr        r   ,      
. t 1  - z  . .:. H   . t;,  . ,-   , -  I..
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Region
This document has a resicted disiWbuton and may be used by redipients only in the performance of
their officiil duties. Its contents may not otherwse be disdosed without Wodrd Bank authoizaon.



(September 30, 1992)
Currency Unit       =      Naira (N)
US$1                =      N 19.66
N 1.00              =     US$0.054
Measures and Equivalents
1 kilometer (Ian)          =     0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                =     3.28 feet
25.4 millimeters (mm)      =      1 inch
Abbreviations and Acroym
ADT          Average Daily Traffic
DFRRI        Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure
EAMU         Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Unit
ECOWAS       Economic Community of West African States
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EPC          Environmental Protection Commission
FEPA         Federal Environmental Protection Agency
FGN          Federal Government of Nigeria
FHWA         U.S. Federal Highway Administration
FMA          Federal Ministry of Aviation
FMF          Federal Ministry of Finance
FMTC         Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications
FMWH         Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
HSL          Highway Sector Loan
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
LGC          Local Government Council
MSRP-I       First Multistate Roads Project
MSRP-II      Second Multistate Roads Project
NAA          Nigerian Airports Authcrity
NPA          Nigerian Ports Authority
NRC          Nigerian Railway Corporation
NTCC         National Transport Coordinating Commission
SMOW         State Ministry of Works
SSA          Sub-Saharan Africa
TPP          Transport Parastatas Project
ITC          Technology Transfer Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



rOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
ki DERA"REEUU; 9 ONME&ERA
COND MULTISTATE ROADS
Tabeof Cog=n
Pag No.
CREDrr AbMPpRgECr SUM9MARY   ..................................  I
1.          E         TOD:O .................................,  I
It.  MH  TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................    2
A.     Overview of the Seor    .........................   2
B.     Transport Planning and Coor tion ..................                 3
C.     Previous Bak Group Involvemen  in the Roads Sector and
Lessons ..........            ..........................   3
m. IHE ROAD SUB-SEcTOR .................                                           4
A.     TheRoad Network  .............................   4
B.   Road Safety .......................                                   5
C.     Roads Administration ............               ..........    6
D.    Stae Roads ......................    6
E.     Development of State Roads  ......................    7
F.  Development Sategy.......................  8
G.    Rationale for IDA Involvemen  ........           ..............   9
H.    Financiig the Stae Roads Progam  .......            ............   9
IV. THER              .....................................   11
A.    Project Objectives ..............................  11
B.     Poject Descripdon  .      ............................  11
C.     Cost Estimates and Fnancing .........          ...............  14
D.    Road User Charges and Cost Recovery ......            ...........  16
E.     Implementation ................................  17
F.     Procurement.................................  17
G.  Disbursement................................. 20
H.    Accoutig and Auding ...........               ...............  22
I.     Reporting ad Monitoring ......                ..........   22
J.     Enmiromental Aspes ...........................  22
K.     Projec Supervision ................   24
7s epost is based on he findins of a Bank wmi   which visted Nea In JunJuly 1992, compising
MesusJMm. A. Bhandri (Se. T qanportatior Engin, and Mission Leader), 1M. Makand, (Fnancial
Aalyst). O. Ieiani (tnahstructur Ennr), asitd by cousuls A. Ross (Dopect Speiaist),
R. Cbandran (Proment Specat), S. Hctel (ILO Consul) and S. Olugbha-*   Hhay nsinea).
A. Dalfl oauried out the envronme    assesm  and R. James provided the computin and eearch
assistac  Sereil work was done by H. Ko  The report has benefitted greatly from work done eatli
under the First Multi-SMta Roads Project by MessrJMmes. C. Queios, . Wamer and S. B aesinan. The
peer reviwes wae  . Rivmn (AF7N) and S. Tombi (ATIT). Mes. 1. Wright and E. Lim are th
Division Chief and Diretor, respcively of the operain.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V. PROlE        USTIFICAlON AND         l     SR ...........................  24
VI. AGREEMM    lAND lCAEalMEA=                   ..........   2S
AM=
1-1    Nigeria: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Initiative
2-1    Past Bank Involvement In the Road Sub-Sector
3-1    Characterlstics of State Road Networks, 1988
3-2    Selected Information on Project States
3-3    State Government Finances
3-4    State Roads Manteance Cost Recovery
4-1    Design Standards
4-2    List of Vehicles and Equipment to be Procured under the Project
4-3    Draft Terms of Refence for State Roads Management Consultancy
4-4    Manpower Development and Training and Technology Trasfer Centers
4-5 Draft Terms of Reference for Project Oversight
4-6   Project Cost Tables
4-7    Draft Terms of Reference for Supervsion of Road Work Conacts
4-8 Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4-9   Project lmplementation Schedule, Details of Procemet Argemets,
and Monitorable Targets and Performance Indicators
4-10 Disbursement Schedule & Disbursement Chart
4-11   Environmental Assensset Summary
4-12 Supervision Plan
5-1    Economic Analysis
6-1   Documents Available in the Project File
Maps  IBRD No. 23954 Multi-State Roads Project II (Project States)
IBRD No. 23955 Multi-State Roads Project 11 (Oyo State)
IBRD No. 23956 Multi-State Roads Project U (Osun State)



EDERAL REPWJB  OF BELOA
SECOND M17UIlSII  ROADS D;JC
ITAND PRJECSMMAEY
:              P"Federal Govrment of Nigeia (FGN)
Fedea Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH),
Oyo State Ministry of Works and Tanport
Osun State Mistry of Work, Lands and Physicl Plaing
A _u~IE:       State Mistes of Works (SMOWs), FMWH
A     m o   SDR 61.4 million (US$85.0 million equivalent)
=:             Sandard IDA terms with 35 years maturity
Tmw            From FGN to the States for twenty yea, iuding 5 years of gre at Xh
IBRD variable interest rate. The States would bear the foig exhan
ris  US$2.3 milion would be retained by the Govenrent to finance
thnical asitance to FMWH.
The project is the second phase of a naonal state roads progrm  hat is
planned to evenualy cover most Nigerian states.  he fiSt phase covered
the two states of Kano and Jigawa The proposed project would cover Oyo
nd Osn, and would include:
(a)    Road   ka: implttion of selected high priory road wodr
In the States' five-year economically jusfied road isvs
program including rehabilitation and strengtning work, paving of
selected high volume unsured roads and Imnited construction of
new roads;
Ob)    Maincsm by Mm=: initiation of a program of rutie and
periodic maitance of roads by prte c ators, including he
development and training of small scale domesti contractors in
usig labor based and ligt equipment sssed cnuction
methods;
(c)   :Vehicles ad Zmea=    purchae of vehicles and equpment to
strengthen institutional capacity to plan, dedgn and superin the
project wor; and



-II-
(d)                          establishmen of W    te     _
arangements wiln the SMOWs and support for planing, deign,
construction, maineace and supervision of roads, and for conact
management.
Estimated Project Costs:
}biect Costs a nd Fkacig Pla
(JSS milion)
Local     Foreign
A. Stae Qomgonen
Civil Works                         26.9       50.0        76.9
Vehicles and Equipment               0.8        3.2         4.0
Technical Assistance                 1.5        8.6        10.1
Training                            .QJ         .16         2
Subtotal (Base Costs):         29.6       63.4        93.0
D. Fdrl=         =
Technical Assistance                 0.1        0.7         0.8
Training                             0.0        0.1         0.1
Studies                             JU          J_
Subtotal (Base Costs):          0.3        1.7         2.0
Total Base Costs                29.9        65.1       95.0
Physical Contingencies               3.0        6.5         9.5
Price Congencies                    AA                    J 2
Total Project Costs: I1        37.3       80.9       118.2
Fnancing Plan:                        Lod      Foreign       I
IDA                                  4.1       80.9        85.0
State Governments
Oyo                               16.8        0.0       16.8
Osun                             16.2         0.0       16.2
Federal Govenment (FMWH)              0         _. 0_.
Total:                         l,         J
I/ Of which US$3.7 milion rersents taxes and duties.



Estmated IDA DisbSme
(USS milo)
ialX Year           J2        199S     12        122      1221     192M
Annual               7.5      16.8      20.4     19.6     12.7      8.0
Cumulaoive           7.5     24.3       44.7     64.3    77.0      85.0
lleneh andl Risks: The main benefit from the project would be a more efficient and cost
effective state wads network that permits a higher level of economic
acdvity. Quantifiable benefits consist of vings in vehicle operatg
cost fr nomal traffic and for generated or diverted traffic where
applicable which would result from improved links between the federa
inter-urban highways and teriary rural road systems. Additional benefits
would consist of reductions in manac costs, improved road safety,
tme savigs and improved links between federal and rurl road systems.
The benefits of the Instutional e velopment component, the pilot
program of road maitenance by contract and development of local
contractors are potently high but un ble.
-here are three major risks associated with the project. The first
concerns the ability of new and -ntried scates executing agencies to
effectively manage both a large iiwease in maitenance operato  and
the switch to contract works. The second risk concerns state level
capacty to maiain an acceptable  acting process. The third risk
involves the provision of counterpart funds which have historically been a
major problem in project implato in all sectots. The first two
risks will be addressed through the close and condnual inions of the
state agencies, the consultants, FMWH. and IlDA. The third risk will be
addressed by having counterpart funds deducted at the source from the
Federation Account.
Rtate of Relbn:   Te economic rates of return for the civi works sub-components range
from 25% to over 100%. The overall ERR for the combined investment
in the two states is 35%.



RDU&LWICUQ ONIGR
SECON WINA113 10AJ
IL
1.1   Neria is the most populous cty in Africa with a popuation of about 88.5 mlioa
1/. which is exected to double during the nex S years. It is located between latitudes
4"N and 130N and has an area of approxim- ! 925,000 kmW. The climate varies from semi-
arid inthe north, with about 500S m of raf  A, to wet and humid In the south with over
2,000 mm of rainl per year. There is a well defined wet season In the summer, extending
for as lite as four months in the north to as long as seven mont in the south. In the north,
the terrain is flat with sparse natra vegetation; across the middle belt, there are hills and
graite outcp with savannah type vegetation, while in the south the terrain is generally flat
with tropical forest vegetaton
1.2   Despite its oil wealth, Nigeria is among the 15 poorest counties in the wodd with
anual per capita income at around US$290 (1991). Social indicators are slightly below the
average for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The Structr Adjustment Ptogrm (SAP) launched
In mid-1986 supported a number of refoms in economic and human rsource developmer
The SAP recognized that removing transport bottlenecks and improving transport efficiency
were crucal to obtaining an adequate supply response in the economy. It also endorsed a
policy of making bett use of asets In the sector through adoption of a -maintance
culture* as a means to achieve the highest overal returm.
1.3    Over the last 15 years there has been a remarkable expansion and improvement of the
roads system in Nigeria, bUt inadequate maintenace now threatens the road network, raising
the possibility of the loss of past invesmnts and serious repercussions for the economic well-
beig of the country. Road matence capability is weak ast all levels of Government, and
this problem is compounded by weak orgizational structures for managing the road sysm
1.4   The Bank is supporting a shift in emphasis from new constuction to maint ce and
rehabilitation of the fedeal highways under the Highway Sector Loan (HSL, 2963-UNI,
US$250 million, Septmbe 15, 1989). In line with this policy shift towards rehabilitaion
and mantenan, the Goveent of Nigeria has requested the Bank's asstamce to improve
the road nworks in selected states. The poposed project, which would be the Bank's
second operation for state roads, is comistet wih the Baks developnt sregy (pam
3.12) and key policy efrms recommended under the Road Rehabilitation and   e
Initiative (x  1-1). The Project would provide the opportity to pursue at the state level
the types of I ove  being introduced at the fdera level to stenghen the management
of road administrations. The needs of the rural roads which are adminited by Local
Goverrnent Councils (LGCs) are being addressed through the Bank-assisted Agricutural
Developmet Projects. More recenty, the Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural
Infraucture (DFRRI) in the Executive Office of the President has also become involved.
1.5   The proposed project, Multi-State Roads Project II (MSRP II), which Involves the
States of Oyo and Osun, Is a follow-up to the frst Multi-State Roads Project (MSRP I) which
I/    Based on the prelimiiary results of the 1991 census.



-2 -
Involved Kano and Jigawa States. Ihe project was prepared with fiancing from a Japanese
Grant of Yen 166 million (about US$1.3 million). Under the grat, FMWH reined
consultants who completed the road network condition surveys and other data collection
activities in the field required for developing the 5-year economic progrm for state road
rehabilitation, strengthening, upgrading, construction and maintennce in Oyo and Osun
similar to the programs developed for Kano, Jigawa and Lagos under the Fiast MSRP.
11. THE TRASQPRT SECTOR
A.    Overvew of the Seco
2.1    During the oil boom of the seventies, Nigeria expienced a strong growth in
transport demand, with road, port, and air traffic increasing at 15-20% per year. Ihe
railways did not share this prosperity to the same ete., although a doubling of freight during
a three-year period at the end of the decade (1979-1982) suggests that there was (and stil is)
considerable latent demand for reliable rail service.
2.2 The Federal Government responded to these strong demand pressures with a
considerable investment program in roads, ports, and civil aviation. Between 1975 and the
early 1980's, Nigeria spent some N7 bilion on roads, mostly in the Federal system. Some
10,000 kms of roads were constructed, 3,000 kms rehabilitated, and 4,000 kms strengthened.
Port capacity was more than doubled, and 14 major airports (eight capable of accepting 747s
or 727s) were constructed or improved.
2.3    Although there are still significant deficiencies in infrastucture, the downturn in the
economy during the eighties has reduced both the need and *he means to gready expand
capacity. The emphasis now needs to be on maitining and rehabilitating existng
infrastructure, increasing the efficiency with which it is used, and recovering more of the
costs from transport users.
2.4 The Federal Government owns and operates parastatals in all transport modes except
roads. These range from large enterprises such as the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC),
the Nigerian Airports Authority (NAA), and the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) with federal
government investments in excess of N 1.2 billion, N1.3 billion and NO.8 billion respectively
(as of end 1988), to smaller entrises like the Central Water Transportation Authority.
With the exception of NAA which no longer receives opeting subsidies, all transport
enterprises depend on federal goverment subventions for most of their operating expenses
and for their entire capital investments. Inadequate levels of capital and recurrent expenditure
over several decades have left these enterprises with substantial deferred maintenan
requirements and technologically obsolescent capital stock. The federal government has
clearly indicated its intentioDto adopt policy reforms in parastatals to reduce operating losses
and to begin to opert them on a commercial basis, and, in some cases, to fully privatize or
liquidate them. Efficiency measures to be adopted by NRC (i.e. concentrating on more
profitable long haul bulk traffic) wil place growing demands on the road system to serve
smaller centers with service that the raiways are unable or reluctant to offer. The result is
that demand for road services will continue to grow in Nigeria as the economy expands.



- 3 -
B.      au&nsr Plann ing-and Coordnt
2.5   The FeJeral Ministry of Trnmsport and Communicadors (PMrC) Is responsible for all
federal transport matters except the federal highway system which is under the Federal
Highways Department (PHD) in the Federal Minstry of Works and H( asing (FMWH). The
responsibilities of FMTC include the formulation of transport policy, supervision of the
federal transport parastatals, and the provision of infrstucture and services not provided by
either FMWH or the parastatals themselves. Through its National Transport Coordination
Commission (NTCC), FMTC is responsible for planning and coordinating investments and
operations in all transport modes. So far, NTCC, whose membership includes the FMW`H,
FMTC, and Federal Ministry of Finance  ), has had little influence on the road
subsector. FMTC has not been very fective on some maters within its jurisdiction, such as
restruturing of parastatals and economic assessment of its own investment programs. This is
pardy because of a lack of government interest in these issues in the past, and pardy beas
of inadequate professional staff to develop annual and five-year plans based on engineering
and economic criteria. With greater constraints on government spending, there is now more
interest at FMTC and PMF in making only tfi mnost economic investments. This objective is
being supported under an ongoing Transport Parastatals Project (rPP) (nara. 2.6).
C.    Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Roa& Sector and  eIsspn    a Ied
2,6   The Bank's and IDA's past involvement in the transport sector in Nigeria has totalled
USi584.9 million and has been predominantly in highways (77%). The MSRP I with
proposed IDA credit of US$68 million equivalent, was negotiated in April, 1992, and
approved by the Board in July 1992. Detafls of past lending to the highway sector are
descnrbed in Annmex_2l. Assistance to railways was provided in 1958 (Loan 193-UNI, US$28
mnillion) and in 1970 as part of a Transport Rehabilitation Project (Loan 694-UNI, US$25
million). There were two port projects (Loan 326-UNI, US$13.5 million, 1963 and Loan
922-UNI, US$55 million, 1978). The ongoing TPP approved in June 1986 (Loan 2734-UN!,
US$20.9 million) supports the Government's effort to improve the policy envilutnment and the
performance of parastatals, especially NRC and NPA. The MSRP-I is expected to become
effective in August 1993.
2.7   Two types of problems predominated in past lending operations in the transport
sector, and measures have been taken in the design of the proposed MSRP to avoid their
recurrence. The first problem was the lack of success of institutional development
components compared to the relative success of physical investment. lhe MSRP would build
up the State Ministries of Works and Transport (SMOWs) by first of all, reducing the amount
of force account operations and strengthening management's capacity to plan, design and
supervise the works to be carried out by contract (Paras 4.4-4.5). By focussing on priority
areas, this approach would maximize the use of the limited manpower available in the
SMOWs at the tecbnical and managerial levels. Most road maintenance works would be
transferred to private contractors thereby reducing bureaucratic constraints and increasing
efficiency. The project would also extend initiatives under the HSL to establish at the state
level a network of technology transfer centers to meet the technological needs of the SMOWs
and the constuction industry (para 4.7). Past road projects suffered substntial delays in
agreeing on bidding documents and other procurement related matters due partly to a lack of
fmility with Bank requirements stemming from the lack of staff continuity, poor training
and communication. During preparation of the proposed project, special effort has been taken



-4-
to familiarize staff at the FMWH and the SMOWs with Bank    e  for andad
bidding dowments, which the FMWI has now adapted for its own use.
2.8   The Highway Sector Loan (US$250 millicn) was approved by the Soad In Marh
1988, and became effective In March 1990. mpl_ieme on of dt  ciil worls componen
has been very slow due in part to bureaucratic delays In decision making in the Federal
Ministry of Works and Housing and in part due to the lack of advmae prepation of desigs
and tender documents. After consultations with the Nigerin Governent, $50 milion loan
was subsequently canceled as of Jan 1, 1993. Nevertheless, ther has bee a siicant
progress In recent months in completing the engineeig designs, prparing tender documents
and inviting bids for the first year road projects. The allocation of budgetary resoures for
capital and recurrent expenditure has Improved in 1992. All audit repors for the project ar
up-to-date and satisfactory ,Anex 2-_Ž. At the sate level, experience in other projects ha
shown decision-making to be fister, and Impl an of the ciH works omponents under
the proposed project is expected to be enhanced due to the advnced lvel of preparation of
designs and tender documents for the first batch of roads. Tese docme   are  pected to
be ready for inviting bids on at least two road pmjects in each state by June i993. The
implementtion readiness of the project is fruther expected to be enhanced by the adopdon of
model procurement documents already reviewed and approed by Bank under the Highway
Sector Project.
M. TiE ROAD StAFi
A.    The Road Network
3.1   The total road network In Nigeria is about 167,800 km, including he federa system
which amounts to 28,600 km (see Table 1 below). The stato roads system iS approximatey
30,500 km (34% bituminous surfaced), while the LGC road system comprises about 108,700
km (about 1.0% bituminous surfced). The federal nevork accounts for about 17% of the
total network and 67% of biuminous surfaced roads, while the state roads nerk comprs
18% of the total network and 30% of bituminous surfaced roads. Th density of the tota
road network at 1.89 km/1000 pop,ltl'on is above the average of 1.17 km/1000 population
for SSA. The paved road network represents a density of about 0.38 km/1000 population,
which is also above the average for SSA (0.29 km/1000 population).



Table 1. : 6 Network
IAmOs in kml)
l    I   of Roadsed                           lad        Eamon
Federal Highways        23,000        5,600     28,600           17
Stat Highways           10,430       20,070     30,500           18
Rural Roads                870      107,830    108,700          65
Total Nigeria        34,300      133,500    167,800          100
Total SSA           111,037      213,092    324,129
3.2   Since 1973, some 10,000 km of federal roads have been constucted, 3,000 km
rhabilitted, and 4,000 km strenoened. Despite this substantial program, the fderal
network iS still underdeveloped, with 20% unpaved and in poor condition. Some secio  are
only open  traffic in the dry season, while a few exist only as lines on the map. Many
roads were constucted witi relatively weak pavements with the intention of st teniAg
them with asphalt-concretL overlays when needed. However, this logical stage-con n
approach proved difficult to put into effect in reent years, mainly owing to the lack of
adequate budgetary resources. As a result, strengthening works have not been carried out on
time. In addition, FHD's practice of designing pavements for the 10-ton lega maximan axle
load then in effect 2/, instead of the considerably heaier loads actually experienced,
combined with poor supervision, led to instances of substandard consuction. For all the
above reasons, coupled with unexpectedly high traffic growth of about 30% a year in the lae
1970s, the network deteriorated rapidly. The latest field survey (1988) showed that of the
paved federal road network, 36% was in very good condition, 29% good, 20% fair, and 15%
in poor or very poor condition. Strengthening and rehabuitadng the federal network Is dtus
the principal focus of the FHD Program currendy being supported by the HSL.
B. R
3.3   Road accidents impose a heavy toll in terms of fatalities, injuries and property
damage. Available road accident statistics for 1980-1988 indicate that Nigeria has an
exceptionally high road acct fatalky rate (about 33 fatalities per 100 million veham), a
rate that is about 16 times higher thain the U.K. and U.S.A. The tol umber of road
accident declined from a peak of 40,900 in 1976 to 31,600 in 1980; data beyond 1982
suggest a similar decrease in accidents, injuries and fitalities, possibly due to a reduction i
the vehicle fleet and Improvements in road geometry adn condition. However, fataity rate
(deaths per 10,000 vehicles) have tended to rise which suggests a worsening of road safety.
In terms of system performance, road safety deserves priority attention, as the annual
2/    The FGN recenty decided to raise the axde load standard in Nigeria from 10 to 11.5
ton/aule, to more closely match the Economic Community of West Africa States
(ECOWAS) standard of its neighbors.



-6 -
economic loss to the country due to road accidents was conservatively estimated at N2.0
billion in 1989. Actions proposed under the project, including emphasis on road
rehabilitation, maintenance and road safety Improvements, would contribute to reducing
accident costs on state roads. The consultants assisting in the design of the civil works wfll
be required to give special attention to enhancing road safety.
C.    Roads AdnisrtAon
3.4   The FHD is responsible for managing the federal trunk road network; the SMOWs
administer the state road systems while the LOCs have responsibility for local roads. As
mandated by the constitution, the three tiers of government have independent planning,
financing and budgeting responsibilities for the roads under their jurisdictions. A persistent
problem has been the shortage of professional and technical staff at all levels of roads
administration. As a result, planning, project and contract supervision, and the execution of
maintenance have been weak, resulting in instances of poor quality of construction and
inadequate maintenance. Measures are being taken via the HSL (para 1.4) and the proposed
MSRP to define an organizaton and action plan to improve the aministaion, rehabilitation
and maintenance of state roads. The findings will be implemented under the MSRP.
3.5    Road planning is carried out in principle at three levels. FMF assesses federal
highway needs in relation to other sectors with respect to resource allocation while FHD
initates p-ograms for federal roads based on need, and establishes construction and
maintenance priorities. The SMOWs are responsible for performing similar tasks for state
roads. A third level of planning, although not readily recognizable, exists at the local
govenment level where some decisions concerning LGC roads are made. Coordination
among the federal, state and local government agencies has not been very effective due in part
to the lack of adequate manpower at middle and senior technical and managerial levels. An
additional problem at the state level is the fiequent turnover of key personnel which seriously
affects continuity of management. The MSRP would addresi this problem by providing
technical assistance and training to help strengthen the coordinating role of FMWH already
begun under the First Multi-State Roads Project, and the planning and managerial capability
of SMOWs. By establishing Technology Transfer Centers (MrCs) at the state level, MSRP
would not only improve internal lir.!.ages, but would allow access to training for SMOW and
LGC technical staff. Such centers are provided for in the Project (para 4.8).
D.  2MMBRads
3.6   The state road networks consist of two classes of roads: the remnants of Trunk Roads
B (secondary roads), which provide important links to the federal trunk roads; and tetary
roads transferred from the LGCs and incorporated in the state road systems. The estimated
30,500 km of state roads range from enginered two-lane asphalt-suraced roads to dry-season
earth tracks. About one-third of the state roads is bituminous-ufaced as shown in Table 1.
The condition of the state roads varies considerably, much depending on the financial
resources alocated to roads and, more importantly, the availability of trained and experienced
staff within the SMOWs. States with well esablished institutions for implemendng road
projects have made considerable progress in upgrading and improving their road systems
during the last decade, while progress in other sta.es has be inadequate.



- 7 -
3.7   The charactics of the state road networks are summarized In Annex I1. 'ere is
a degree of correlation between size of state road systems and the area and population of the
state. Bendel/Delta, for example, has the largest state road network with 30,30 km, while
Lagos has the smallest network with 370 km. The extent of paved roads (bituminous-
surfaced) ranges from 1,490 km in Bendel/Delta to 210 km in Kwara/Kogi. Ste road
networks with a large proportion of bituminous-surfced roads are in: Lagos (96%), Rivers
(91%), Kano/Jigawa (72%), Imo/Abia (64%), Kadunaatsina (58%), Ondo (52%), and
BendelfDelta (45%). ei. - rns of coverage and quality, the state road systems in
Anambra/Enugu, Ber .;. rf .golaflaraba, KwaralKogi, Niger, and Plateau appear to be the
least developed.
3.8    A recent Trunk ?,-ad Study (IRS) carried out by consultants under the Bank finmced
Sixth Highway Project, estimated aggregate traffic on the state roads system at 15 million
veh4am per day or about 25% of the trafflc flow on the almost equally sized federal system.
The corresponding road user costs on the state system are about US$3.8 million per day or
US$1.4 billion per anmum. The replacement cost of the state road system is estimated at
about US$2.0 billion, excluding major bridges and about 13,000 km of tracks.
3.9   The condidon of the state road system is determined by two main considerations: the
extent of road rehabilitation, upgrading, and new construction during the last 10-15 years, and
the adequacy of maintnce. On a relative scale, state road systems in the best condition
(less than 20% in poor condition) are found in Kaduna/Kasina, Lagos, Borno/Yobi, and
Rivers mostly because of the large investments made by these states in bituminous-surfaced
roads during the last 10 years. As a result, these states now face a heavier mainteance
burden and reqrire a major reorientation of their road expenditure priorities to preserve their
recent road investments. The worst road conditions (more than 50% in poor condition) are to
be found in Anambra/Enugu, Bauchi, Kwara/Kogi, OyolOsun, and Ondo due to weak state
inswtitutions for road development and mantenace and to financial constraints. The road
conditions in other states fall somewhere between these limis but, in all cases, the ins ons
for road management at the state level require considerable stening  particularly In road
planning and maintenmce.
E.    Develpment of State Roads
3.10 Parts of the state road system are still in the process of definition; there are no
accurate inventories of state roads and the recent TRS suggests that there is a considerable
overlap between state and LGC road systems. Despite their vita importance for intra-s
commerce and trade (as the main comectors between the seats of local govemments and as
the backbone of the secondary collector-distributor road systems), the majority of the state
road eworks is still at an early stage of development. The Five-Year Development Plan
(1986-1990) aimed at a complete overhaul of the state road system, including the
improvement to paved standard of 20,000 km out of the total network. No priority was,
however, assigned to road projects included in the state road development plans.
Furthermore, these plans bore litde relationship to the availability of financial resources or the
ability of SMOWs to absorb additional resources. With the exception of a few states, the
Development Plan was not carried out.



-8-
3.11 According to the Road Sector Strategy Paper (Report No. 7844-UNI, of January 10,
1991) a road investmet program for sa  toads is economically justified for some 11,000
kn. The scope of economica1ly-jusified resealing, rehabilitation, strengthening, and
upgrading works on the state road networks is summarized below:
Table 2: State Roads Rehabilitation Pro
Type ofWok                                 LenfihhnM
Resealing                                     3,500
Widening and Suring                            1,200
Asphat Concrete Overlays (including widening)  1,100
Rehabilitation                                2,600
Upgrading to Paved Standard                    2,900
Total                                      11,300
F.       velooment St tn
3.12 Future development of the state road networks will depend on the ability of the states
to mobllze financial resources for road development and maintenance (para 3.17) and their
capacity to plan and utilize these resources in a cost-effective manner. The strategy for futi
state road development progravs as agreed between the Government and the Bank should
Include:
(a)    creation of appropriate organizional and Institudonal arrangements within the
SMOWs for plamning and managemant of the state road system;
(b)   development of an institutional capacity for state road maintenance, which will
eventually reach the LGCs;
(c)    mobilization of intenal state resources for the MSRP tbrough road user
dcarges, land development fees, and other appropriate revenue geration
measures to recover at least the recurent maintenance costs;
(d)    development of a phased program of road improvemens in order to stie a
proper balance between expansion of road infrastcture and preservation of
-    assets;
(e)    a strong emphasis on manpower development and contract management to
strengthen SMOW capacity to oversee state road programs carried out by
private contcors; and
(M    the Implementon of an extension program for private road contractors to
strengthen thieh ability to carry out road maintenance and rehabilitation
opeaions.



-9 -
Selected info   n for Oyo ad Own state chosen for inclusion in the proposed MSRP I is
shown in Annex-3-2
G.    Ratonalk or MA EIvolvement
3.13   The project would be part of the ongoing effort to upgrade Nigeria's state highway
system, to make more efcive use of existng infrastructure, and to Identify cost recovery
mechnim  for roads. As works and transporttion normally account for a significant
perentage of public expe e at the state and local levels, an IDA-financed state roads
project could be an effective vehicle for Instittional and fiscal reform. The Bank/IDA has
been a catalyst In Nigeria at the federal level In achieving more economic road investment
pro s, stressing rebabilitaton and maitenance over new investment, and emphasizing
in ional development and cost recovery. IMA is now in a strong position to extend these
benefiu to the state level. IDA has also Intensified its dialogue with Government on the need
to sift road maiten  acdvities from force account operations to greater use of contractors
and to make progms towards cost recovery fom road users. Ihe project provides a good
oportunity to strengthen the SMOWs In contract supervision while encouraging greater
Involvement of the private road cntng  industry. Hence, the project fits well into the
overall Country Aistance Strategy, which was discussed at the Board meeting of May 28,
1992. Ihe project also fits well into the country strategy for environmental institution
building (paras 4.33-4.35).
H.    Enancing the State R         _oas hog
3.14  A  ummary of the 1990 actual and 1991 budgeted revenue, receipts and expenditures
for the combined states of Oyo and Oum is presented in Annex 3-3. Receipts and
expenditue for Oyo and Oun were budgeted at N1.7 billion for 1991. The state relied
heavily on statutory revenue from the Federation Account amounting to N1.2 billion (75% of
tota receipts). Capital receipts toted 1181 million (10 percent of total receipts) and
inally geneated reveues amounted to N258 million (15% of total receipts) together
makg up the balance (25%) of the 1991 state budget.
3.15   Road wor  are financed from general government revenues; there is no ear-marking
of user charge revenues for road wors in Nigeria. Generally, construction, rehabilitation,
pavement strengtening and periodic maintea    are financed from the states' capital budget,
and rutine mnteace opet   from  eir recent budget. The budget for OyoIOsUI
shows capital oeenditure on road infrauctu  at N58.7 million, or 10.9% of the total
capital expendiu  for 1990 and N71.7 million or 9% of total capital expenditure for 1991.
Total expenditureon roads in 1991 was N1107.4 million for Oyo/Osun. The road work
planned for Oyo/O   is pe   nly rabilitation and upgrading.
3.16  The cost of adequatey providg recurrent (routine) maintenance of state roads ranges
from about N7,000 per km for the lower volume unpaved roads (ADT < 300 vpd) to about
N17,900 per km for the higher volume (ADT > 1500 vpd) asphalt concrete roads. When
the annualized costs for periodic maintena    are also added, total maintenance costs
(exccluding reabilitation and consuction) range from N 18,000 to N57,500 per km. On that
baii, te estimad amnal recu     ment      costs Ci 1991 prices) for Oyo and Osun are
resevdely N10.6 million and 19.7 million and fte total mairnace costs (recurrent and
periodic) are, N30.5 milon and 129.5 milion respectively annually. Annex 34 shows



- 10-
details of the recurrent and total maintenance costs in relation to the total transport related
revenue generated in Oyo/Osun states. During negotiations it wa ageed wlith the Borrower
that a specific amount of funds, to be agreed by October 31 each year with IDA, will be
allocated annually in the budget of each project state for recurrent main_tece of the state
roads, and that these funds will be released in a timely manner. Currendy, the estimated
annual cost of recurrent maintenance in each state is US$750,000 equivalent.
3.17 Table 3 shows a summary of the recutrent and total maintenance expenditure required
to keep the state road networks in Oyo/Osun and the entire country in good condition. Total
transport related revenue collected in 1991 cover 56% of the desirable recurrent maintenance
expenditure in Oyo, and 50% In Osun, but constitute only 19% of the total (recurrent plus
periodic) maintenance expenditure In Oyo and 16% in Osun. In comparison, the nationwide
cost recovery ratios (based on 1990 data) are 40% for recurrent and 16% for total
maintenance costs. The main source of transport related revenue is vehicle license fees
(65%), followed by drivers license fees (15%), while other fees including registration of
vehicles, change of ownership, safety inspection, annua hackney, etc. account for the
remaining 20%. ITe individual rates are very low (see Table 3 in An=-LA4I and have not
been adjusted since August 1986.
Table 3: State Road Maintenance Costs and Revenues in 1991
IState Roads             Reurn         Re  +       P i
Maintenance     Maintenance
(N million)     (N million)
Qyo/Osun (1991Q            QYQ   Qam      QYQ    Qauo
Annual Costs             10.6    9.7    30.5    29.5
Transport related
Revenue                  5.98    4.82    5.98    4.82
Revenue/Costs (%)        56%    50%      19%     16%
All States (I2
Annw Costs               213.2          536.8
Transport related
Revenue                  84.8           84.8
Revenue/Costs (%)        40%             16%
3.18   Dringnegotiations it was agreed with the Borrower that the participating States wil
adjust the transport related charges sufficiently to recover filly at least the recurrent road
maintenance costs each year. To be compatible with the overall national requiement, and
avoid disparities among neighboring states, all the states should eventually increase the user
charges uniformly by a factor of 2.5 (paras 4.15 - 4.16).



- 11 -
IV. THE=
A.    pmlct O3lives
4.1 The main objectives of the project are: (a) to Improve interw-city roads and transport
In the states of Oyo and Osun and reduce ransport costs through improving the condition of
the state road networks; (b) to improve organiaional a   for better planning and
management of the state road system, including strengthening of the institional capacity of
SMOWs; (c) to use contractors for road improvement and for a major portion of road
maintenance works; (d) to enhance resource mobilization and budgetary allocation at the state
level to ensure sustined mantenance of the road networks; and (e) to build technical capacity
at the state level to assess environmental impacts of road projects. Ihe Project would also
contribute to development of the private sector through training and participation of small and
medium scale local contractors in carrying out an increased share of road maintenance and
rehabiliation using labor and light equipment based technologies.
D.          t
4.2 The project would support the following main components in the states of Oyo and
Osun:
(a)    Road works: implementation of selected high priority road works in the
States' five-year economically justified road investment program including
rehabilitation and strengthening works, paving of selected high volume
unsurfaced roads and limited construction of new roads;
p)    Maintenance by contract: initation of a program of routie and periodic
maintenance of roads by private contractors, including the development and
training of small scale domestic cotactors in using labor based and light
equipment assisted construction methods;
(c)    Vehicles and equipment: purchase of vehicles and equipment to strengthen
institutional capacity to design and supervise the project work and enhamce
road safety in the participating states; and
(d)   Institudonal developm ent: establishme  of approprate instiuonal
arrangements within the SMOWs and support for planning, design,
construction, mainteance and supervision of roads, and for contrac
management.
In addition, technical assistance would be provided to FMWEI for coordinating the project in
all the states and conducting environmentl and other relevant transport sector studies,
including preparation of the next phase of the state roads projecL
4.3   Road Works: The road works under the project comprise a total of 994 km of
rehabilitation, upgrading, construction and resrfcing works, of which 481 km are in Oyo
and 513 km are in Osun as summarized in Table 4. In Oyo, road works comprise pavement
reconstruction, overlay, resealing or upgrading (from gravel to bimn  us surfaced) of 181



- 12 -
kin; new construction of a 50 km section of the Ieyin-IJalye road; and complete rehabilItati
of 150 km of high volume gravel roads and spot improvement of 100 km of low volume
gravel roads. Similarly, in Osun, the project will fiance 255 km of rehabilitation or
upgrading works, construction of a fourlane 8 km by-pass to Oshogbo township; and
complete rehabilitation of 150 ka of high volume gravel roads and spot improvement of 100
km of low volume gravel roads. lhe list of priority roads to be included in the project and
their economic rates of return are shown in Annex 5-1.
Table 4: Road Works"
-''YQau'    I -'t'' '
Rehab. or Upgrading               181         255          436
Rehab. of gravel roads            1SO         ISO          300
Spot improvement of gravel roads  100         100          200
New Construction                  so           8            58
Total                 481         513          994
4.4 The above works will be carried out in accordance with agreed stanards which
include designs for enhanced road and traffic safety with minimal adverse enevronme
impac. All of the rehailit   and upgrading work wil be carried out on existig
alignments, except for local ivements to meet the design standards Am 4-1).
Rehabilitation and spot improvet of gravel roads will be carried out largely by using labor
based and light equipment supported methods. After an inia taining and trial period of
about 12-18 months during which time coractors would be prvded in-depth, on-site
training and classroom instructions followed by 5 km trial secdons for rehabilitation, the
trained contractors would be awarded contracts through competitive biddig procedures.
During negotiations it was agreed t  road mainenc works to be perfomed under the
Project (ensuring up to 70- of all maintenance works being be carried out by the ffth year of
Project execution) will be carried out by the co n  through contractual arrangements.
4.5   MCreanice by  Conntly very little routine and pedodic
work is carried out in Oyo and Osun, all of which is done by force accounL Under the
project it is intended to initie programmed maintenace by contract on about 80 km initialy,
increasing gradually to at least 700 km per anmum by the end of the project In each
participating state. About 15 to 20 local contcors will be selected and trained in using
labor and light equipment based methods for road maitnce. After the il trining
period (epected to last about 12-18 months), maintence contracts genely for 10-50 km
road sections, will be awarded on a competitive basis using simplified contract doments,
bills of quantities and technical specifications. In addtion, about 200-250 single-ma
contractors will be trained to carry out routine maitenanc as lengthmen. After satisfctory
training, they may be awarded conacts with unit rates based on experIence gained during the
traing period. For more 4etais see Document No. 3 In project file.



-13-
4.6    Vehicles. EquiDment Pas and Su }ples Epment for materials tsti.
laboratores, field testing, affc counting, condtidon urveys, and axde load measurements;
and vehicles for surveying, field inspecto, desig and supevision of wors and for
enhancng road safety enforcement will be provided for the two project staes. Provision wi
also be made for acqsition of four ses of light construction equipment in each state for
leasing to domestic coactors under the maiten   by contract component of the project.
(Details are included in An= 4:2 and in Document No. 3 in project file).
4.7   1natinhonal Deaop=mnt: 'he main areas of weakness in the SMOWs with regard to
management of state roads are: (a) planning, programming and budgeting for recurrent and
capital expenditure; (b) procremet, spevion, quality contl and contract management;
(c) orgnization and moniring of programed          by contact; and (d) fnancia
control, accouning and information flow. There is also concern in Osun that havig two
directorates responsible for highways (one each for construction and mainten) might lead
to coordinadon delays (para 4.19). Ihe insutional development component alms at buiding
the capacity of the SMOWs and streamlining the organizatonal stucture. Technical
assistance will be provided with counterpt    gements to assist the SMOWs in supervising
and managing implementation of the project; SMOW staff will be trained to deal more
efficiently with conact management (including training of domestic contractors in labor and
light equipment based constuction methods); and a computerized system will be established
fr collectng and updating data on road network inventory and condition. Under the proje",
provision will be wnde for collecting and updating data on the state road network and on high
volume local governent roads which may be eligible for take over by the state government.
Axle load surveys will also be carried out and if necessary, load control measures stipuated.
Duwing 5    i=i it was agd that by June 30, 1995, axle load surveys would be
uidertaken by the project stae, with a view to develop and implement apropriate load
conol measures, if required.
4.8   The technical assistace under the project will be provided by internationally recruted
consultants and will comprise long-term specialists (project manager, highway planner,
materials speciist, accuting expert, maageme  inaton speciist ad a speilist in
labor-based cotucdon and conaCtor development) and short-torm specilists (transpot
eonomist, procurement specialist, and training speciist). As part of their term  of
reerezce, the oonsultants wil be required to train counterpart staff on the job, cilitate
programmed training of sdected SMOW staff in country and abroad as necessary, oversee the
manpower development program and the establishment of Technology Transfer Centers (fp
at the state level and monitor the performance and developmenal Impacts of the project. The
TMC will be esablished in collaboration with an exisng state level institon or university
tha has interest in the transport ctor. Anme  c- gives draft terms of refere   for the state
level project management consultant services and Anne       gives a description of the
manpower development plan and the proposed TrCs. The extent to which the transfer of
skills is actually efected will be taken into account in the evaluation of consultants'
performance. Detais of the manpower development and tining plan wer agreed on d&ft
neio m and will be reviewed annually with IDA.
4.9   in Osn, which is a new state, the project will support establishment of a materials
laboratory filly equipped to enable SMOW to pwvide technical services for constrction
quality control and field investigations for planning and desipg work. In Oyo, the project
would support rehabilitation of old and procurement of new laborory equipment.



-14-
4.10 At the Federal level, the project will provide support to FMWH Technical
Coordination Unit being established under the first Multistate Roads Project. Mhe Fedeal
component will consist of continuing support for the technical assistance comprising a project
coordinator and an assistant highway engineer (48 man-months); training; av4 studies
(preparatory studies for the next phase of state roads projects and comple  --y local
transport sector studies). Draft terms of reference for the Federal level tectri'cal assistance
for project oversight are given in Annex !0.
C.    Cost Estimates and Finandng
4.11 The estimated total cost of the project amounts to US$118.2 million (including taxes
and physical and price contingencies) with a foreign componen of US$80.9 million equivalent
or about 68% of total project cost as summaized in Table 5 below. Detailed cost estimaes
are provided in Annex 46. Import duties and taxes on the project related inputs are esdmated
at US$3.7 million equivalent. Physical contingencies tailored to each project component
average about 10% of base cost. Price contingencies have been derived from the following
annual projected rates of inflation: foreign 2.8% in 1992, 3.9% in 1993 and 1994, and 3.8%
in 1995 through 1997; and local 42% in 1992, 25% in 1993, 15% in 1994, and 10% per
annum thereafter. Costs have been estimated at mid-1992 prices and at an exchange rate of
US$1.0 = Naira 18.0. The exchange rate is expected to adjust over the project period to
reflect differences between interational and domestic prices.
Table S: Estimated Proiect Cost
(US$ million)
£Qm~~2Mnta  ~      LgWa A/    Foreign    IQial
Civil Works                               26.9       50.0     76.9
0.8        3.2      4.0
1.8       10.3     12.1
Vehicles and Equpment                      0.4        1.6      2.0
Technical Assistance
Training                                            _
Base Cost                                 29.9       65.1     95.0
Physical Contingencies                     3.0        6.5      9.5
Price Contingencies                        4.4        93 _   13.7
Total Project Cost                      37.3       80.9    118.2
:    Amounts rounded.
A/ Includes US$3.7 million in taxes and duties.
4.12 The financing plan fbr the project issummaized in Table 6 below. It is proposed to
fimance US$85.0 million (about 74% ot total project costs net of taxes) from IDA fumds. The
Federal Government would finance US$0.2 million equivalent, and the State Govermes



- 15 -
US$33.0 milion equivalent in local costs spread over the five-year period of implemeion
The stae govemen  would be reqiredto provide counterpart hfndlng in equa monty
Instalents (amountig to about US$280,000 equivalent or NS.2 million per month for Oyo
and US$270,000 equivalent or N5.0 million per month for Osun). In addition, the state
government would be responsible for repaying the loan to the Federal government and beau
the associated foreign exchange risk. To help ensure that limited resources go to priority
areas, It was agreed dring negotiations that during the project Implementaton period, the
states will not undertake any investment for roads estimated to cost more than US$4.0 million
equivalent unless such an investment has been reviewed and agreed upon with the
Association.
Table 6: hoJect Financing
(USt million)
_      _   _    _   _    _   _    _   _   _         I  l a
PMWH                           0.4        2.1        2.5
Oyo SMOW                      18.8       39.8      58.6
Osun SMOW                     18.1       39.0       57.1
Total R_ irements               37.3       80.9      118.2
Source of Funds
FMWH                           0.2        0.0        0.2
Oyo SMOW                      16.8        0.0       16.8
Osun SMtOW                    16.2        0.0       16.2
IDA                            4.1       80.9       85.0
iotal Sources                137.3         80.9      118.2
4.13 Of the proposed credit of US$85.0 million, US$82.7 million would be passed on to
the participating states (Oyo US$41.8 million and Osun US$40.9 million) at standard IBRD
vaiable interest rate, and the Federal government would retain US$2.3 million for
coordinaton of the project, training and preparatory studies. At negoations. it was agreed
that onlending of the credit will be at IBRD variable interest rate for 20 years, including five
years of grace, and that the states will bear the foreign exchange riskr A subsidiary loan
agreement would be required between the FGN and each state. A condition of credit
effctgiveneS is the signing of a subsidiary agreement with at least one state. A condition of
di      _  in any one of the project staes is for that state to have signed a subsidiary loan
agreement between it and FGN.
4.14  The stes of Oyo and Osun have agreed to have the required counterpart funds
deducted at source from the Pederadon Account in monthly installments, and letters to that
effect have been writt  to the Federal Mistry of Finance by the respective state Governors.
The couterpart contribution of the project states have been estmated at US$16.8 million
equivalent for Oyo and US$16.2 million equivalent for Osn over five years. This translates



-16-
to approximately US$280,000 equant per month for Oyo ad US$270,000 equialet per
month for Osun.
D.    Road User CharOes and Cost Reenvery
4.15   Some states, such as Lago8, are aready recoveing the cost of recurret mainsce
through transport related user charges. On average, states would have to ica  road user
charges by about 2.5 times to achieve this goal. In the long run, somc part of revenue from
uet tax leved at the fedeal level or asparate sales tax on fuel leved at the statlevel would
be necessay to meet the costs of periodic as well as routine maintenance, bit legal and
constitutional constra    would prohibit this In the short term. A recent road use chrges
sudy a1 has estimated that to recover at least the recurrent cost of mantan  of the
federad and state road networks, a fuel surebarge of 23 Krbofiter on petol and 9 Kobo/liter
on diesel would be required in aadition to increasing ann   license fees for cars and trucks.
To recover the recurrent and periodic maimtnac cost, the surcharge would have to be,
respectively, 61 and 27 Kobo/liter (or an increase of 87% and 49% respectively) 4I.
4.16  In the short run, however, it should be possible for stA  to recover more of the costs
of recrret maintenmce by increasing the road user charges already under their jurisdiction.
Although present coverage of costs by user fees varies, states have similar vehicle licens and
fee levels. Tis approximate parity should be maitned to avoid tax leakage among states.
A conditon of effectiveness is the implementation, in at least one state, of appropriate
measures, sarsfatry to DA, to incree the level of road user charges collected at the state
level to recover at least the costs of recurrent maintenace. A   nditio nt dWusemen in
any one of the project    is the implementation of appropriate measures, sati y to
IDA, for recovering the costs of recurrent ma a    at the state level, for that state.
4.17   With premium gasoline priced at 70 Kobo Oess than 4 US cents) per liter, Nierias
petroleum product prices are amongst the lowest in the world. It is estimated that the present
pricing policy involves a direct subsidy (to cover crude production and reflning costs) of
around N23 billion per year, and an additional 127 bilion in revenue foregone from not
chaging export parity prices. Reduction of the subsidy on petroleum products has been a
critical issue in the dialogues between the Govermt of Nigeria and the Bank and the IMB
since the emergence of major fiscal and exenal  blances early in the '980s. This is an
extremely sensitive isse, and occasional disnrptons to the supply of cheap gasoline have
triggered popular unrest While oeasional price increases have been implemented, they have
been overtaken by condtued depreciation of the Naira, so that In real terms, the subsidy has
grown considerably. In its budget speech, the Transitional Council presented a compelling
case for the reduction of the domestic petrol subsidy ut stopped short of announcing
immediate action). I ing petroleum product prices to help reduce fiscal imbance is
considered as a critical ingredient of a medium-term strategy.
SI    LBI International Inc., 'Road User Chges and Axle Load Study%, Nigeria,
FMWH, May 1992.
4I    Current fuel price is 70 kobolliter for petrol and 55 kobo/lIter  r diesd (October
1992)



- 17 -
E.  Im_
4.18  Agreement was reached during appraisal that the project woud be implemented by the
SMOWs of Oyo and Osun and coordiated by the FMWH assisted by consultants acceble
to IDA. The project would be managed by the Direcor of Righways and in each State, each
of whom has been Wointed as state Coordinator of MSRP-U. Eah SMOW would constute
a project Implementaon team comprised of the Deputy Director of Construction,
Mainenance, Planning, and otheas who would also be counterparts to the state technical
assistance consultants (STAC). Working document No. 3 In project files gives a detied
description of the organization of the SMOWs in Oyo and Osun. It was agreed further that
the mainoance by contract compontent of the project would be Implemend directly under
the mateace division to ensu  contuty after the project.
4.19  To enhance the capacity of the SMOWs to supervise rcA works under contact and
ensure quality control and strict adherence to technical specifications, local consultants will be
appoined as required. Draft tems of reference for supervision consultut services are given
in AnnexA. During Daft ja        it was agreed that consultants to be appointed by the
FMWH and the indivdual states for various tasks under the project would be proured on
tms and conditions agreeable to the Bank. Appointment of technical assistance consultants
for project management In the two states is a conidon of e. Project preparation
is already in an advanced stage. Local consultants have been appointod and are currently in
the field preparing design details and tender documents for two road projects in each state.
Model ICB documents already in use by FMWH and approved by the Bank will be adapted
for use by SMOWs. Tender documents are expeced to be ready by May 1993 and bids
would be Invied by June 1993.
4.20  During mplemetn, he project will be monitored to ensure that Its development
objectives are being achieved. This monitoring will be undertaken by using the Disagregated
Effectiveness Evaluadon (DEE) Technique. Tbis is based on developing objectives
achievement fameworks for each of the main subsectors of acivity and monioring
implementation wit respect to developmental impact. A brief description of the DEE
Technique and indicative D1EE frameworks for the project are presented in Anneax 48. Only
one subsector has been developed in any detail at present in order to illustrate a typical
framework and similar frameworks will need to be developed for each of the other subsectors
In due course. This is best done at the Project Launch Workshop (PLW) as the local officials
resonsible for implementation will then be able to participate fuSly In developing the detailed
framework and agreeing on the targets and indicators to be used In gugiog success during
implementation. It is proposed to hold the PLW witn a few month of Board approval.
The PLW, a structured project start-up activity, will bring together the key staff members of
the SMOWs and the FMWH to review the project's objectives and procedures and to disuss
in detail the sequence of implemention activies and agree on performance indicators to be
monitored. The project implementation schedule, details of procuremeat arrangements and
monitorable target and perfrmane indicators are outlined in Annex  2.
F.
4.21   The table below Isunmarle the project elements, heir estdmated costs and prwposed
methods of procurement:



- 18 -
Table 7: SupMM of Prcurt Aranzgements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                Total
Project Element           ICB    LCB    Other   NBF           Cost
1. Civil Works
1.1 Buildings (Osun State)                0.7                 -         0.7
(0.5)    -                   (0.5)
1.2 Road Works (Osun State)      35.4      5.5     0.6        4.7      46.2
(26.5)   (4.1)   (0.5)                (31.1)
1.3 Road Works (Oyo State)       35.8      7.5     0.6        5.1      49.0
(26.8)   (5.6)   (0.5)               (32.9)
2. GQods:
2.1 Vehicles, equipment, tools and  1.9            O.5                   2.4
supplies a/ (Oyo State)        (1.6)            (0.4)                (2.0)
2.2 Vehicles, equipment, tools and  1.9            0.5                  2.4
supplies at (Osun State)       (1.6)            (0.4)                (2.0)
3. Consultanciem h/:
3.1 Oyo State                          -           5.9                  5.9
(5.6)                (5.6)
3.2 Osun State                     -               6.5                  6.5
(6.0)                (6.0)
3.3 FMWH                           -               2.4                  2.4
(2.2)                (2.2)
4. Training:
4.1 Oyo State                      -               1.3                   1.3
(1.3)                (1.3)
4.2 Osun State                     -       _       1.3                   1.3
(1.3)                (1.3)
4.3 FMWH                           -               0.1                   0.1
(0.1)                (0.1)
Total                     75.0    13.7    19.7         9.8     118.2
.____________ ___________ _  (56.5)  (10.2)  (18.3)  -     (85.0)
Note: Amounts rounded
NMi: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
a/    Including proprietary items, consumable and office equipment.
h/    Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Use of Consultans by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C.
1981).
~E: Not Bank Financed (mncludes filly Government financed components).



- 19-
4.22   Procurement arrangements wold be similar to those of the First Multi-State Roads
Project being Implemented In Kano and Jigawa states. Most of the IDA-financed road
contracts would be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB). To the extent
appropriate, contracts would be advertised on a slice-and-package basis to allow domestic
contractors to participate. After prequalification, potential bidders would be classified to bid
for one or more slices. However, for expediency, post-qualification of contractori would be
used for the first year civil works contracts and as justified. The works which are dispersed
geographically In remote locations and difficult to package for ICB would, however, be
procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) using procedures acceptable to IDA (foreig
firms would be eligible for bidding). For bid evaluation in ICB civil works procurement,
Nigerian contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7 1/2% which will be added
to bids received from foreign contractors for evaluation and comparison of bids. Contcs
for civil works, estimated to cost individually more than US$0.5 million and contracts for
goods individually costing more than US$100,000 will be procured by ICB. Civil works
contracts estimated to cost less than US$0.5 million (up to an aggregate value of US$13.7
million) would be procured by LCB procedures which will include: local advertising, public
opening, clearly stated evaluation criteria and award to be made to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder. Ihe first package under LCB procedures would be subject to IDA's prior
review.
4.23 ILO has an on-going project with the National Directorate of Employment, in
collaboration with UNDP 5I to train domestic conitractors and government officials in
selected states to adopt labor-based and light-equipment supported road mainece and
rehabilitation methods. In the project states, all maintenance and most of the rehabilitation
work Is undertaken by force account. Since one of the objectives of the project is to increase
the share of road works undertaken by contract, a pilot project has been designed to build thfe
capacity of small domestic contractors for road m2'-tenance and rehabilitation by contract as
opposed to using force account methods. For this purpose, selective tendering procedures
will be used, in which about 20-30 pre-selected contractors will be provided training. 7he
bidding documents wil include a priced bill of quantities and after an initial period of
training, contractors wiUl be asked to bid on a plus and minus basis in reference to the
indicated rates. Contracts will be awarded to the lowest priced bidders, depending on their
capacity to perform, up to an aggregate value not to exceed US$1.2 million.
4.24 The bulk of vehicles and equipment (amounting to US$3.8 million) required by the
states would be procured by ICB. The remaining (amounting to US$1.0 million), are
required at various stages by each state. In view of this, it Is felt that flexibility in
implementation would be essential. Prudent shopping and use of UN International Agency
Procurement Service Unit, and when applicable, limited international bidding (LIB) would be
appropriate depending on the exigencies of the situation (consistent with Article 3.7 of the
Guidelines). Consultant selection would follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Mandatory pre-shipment Inspection will not include price inspection for IDA-
finmced procurement under ICB.
5E/    Capacity Building and Support to PRot Labor-based and Light Equipment Supported
Rural Infrastructure Program.



-20-
4.25  During project supervision, IDA-financed works cona  above a threshold of
US$500,000 would be subject to IDA's prior rview proeue. Goods cnacts ar
packages above US$100,000 woud also be subject to prior reWiew, coverig about 80% of
the total value of IDA-financed good. IDA supervision mssions will periodically review
procurement arrangements for smaller contracts. MAr4 gives further details of
procurement arrangements.
4.26  Procurement informadon would be collected and reowrded as follows:
(a)   prompt reporting of contract award infomation by the two SMOWs to the
FHD/FMWH which would furnish the Infomation to IDA; and
(b)   comprehensive quarerly reports to IDA by ihe FHD/FMWH based on
information submitted by the SMOWs (astsied by cons_tat), indicatrng:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contrac and the tot project,
including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contigencies;
and fii) revised schedule of procurement actions, including adverising,
bidding, contac award, and compledon time for inividual contcs.
G.   Disbursemets
4.27   Disbursements are expected to be completed In six years, assumig some
umprovement over the historic disbursement profile for projects in Nigeria, given the relive
simplicity of the proposed project. The estimated disburseme  schedule and chart ar given
in Annex 4-1. The table below gives the categories and proposed amounts to be financed
out of the IDA credit, and the percentag to be financed in each category.



- 21 -
Table 8:Dis       b
1. civilWorkI
(a) Oyo State                       30.0        100% of fog and 30% of
local expeadbrs
(b) Osun State                      28.5        100% of forepgand 30% of
_________                             ~~~~~local apupedme
2. Equipment and Vehicles
100% of foreip and 75% of
(a) oyo State                       1.8         local e
(b) Osun State                       1.8        100% of freigp and 75% of
_________                            ~~~~~~local expdwes
3.              A
(a) Oyo State                       4.9         100%
(b) Osun State                      5.5         100%
(c) FMWH                            2.2         100%
4. Izaingng
(a) Oyo State                       1.1         100%
(b) Osun State                      1.1         100%
(c) FMWH                            0.1         100%
S. Unallocated
(a) Oyo State                       4.0
(b) Ostn State                      4.0         ____
TOTAL                           885.0        .    ..     .   .
4.28  To fiuitate project Imple ti, a Specia Accomt in foreg curency would be
established for the Borrower and for each project state in a mmerc  bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. Initial deposits of US$200,000 for rMWH and US$1.5 million
for each of the two ses would be made, sufficiaet to coDer et d    eligible d
over three months. AlU payments under USS150,n00 (JS$20,000 in h case of cuWe
equivalent mug be met out of the Specia Accounts. Payments abov this threshold may be
made through the Special Acounts or by using the direct payment or Speci Co_mmtmnt
procedures. Reple applications will be sbmied monthly, or when US$500,000 has
been dibursed from a Specia Account (jS$100,000 in the case of FMW), whichever



- 22 -
comes first. & c                        is the opening of a Project Account with an
initial deposit of at least US$280,000 in equivalent Naira, in an acceptable commerciA bank,
by each participating state. All disbursements under the project would be made against
standard documentaion except for expenditure under contracts of less than US$50,000
equivalent which may be claimed under Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) with related
documentation retained for review by IDA supervision missions.
H.    Accounfgng L and AudiIg
4.29  The accounting for all Special Account transactions and for all other project-related
account will be maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Technical
assistance and training of local staff will be provided under the project. Annual financial
statements of IDA-financed components will be prepared and audited in accordance with
Inernational Auditing Guidelines by suitably qualified independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. Audits will also be carried out, at the same time, and for corresponding periods in
accordance with DA guidelines, for SOEs against which disbursements have been made or
are due to be made out of the credit proceeds, and specific reference will be made in the audit
reports accompanying the financial statements. During negoations, it ws aged that, by
June 30 each year, the states will submit to IDA the auditors' report and audited financa
statements for the Specia Account, Project Accounts and SOEs for the preceding calendar
year, audited by an independent accountant acceptable to the Bank. The FMWH project
accounts will be audited on a similar basis.
L.    RBwrlng and Monitorz
4.30   Quarterly progress reports covering all project components will be prepared by each
participating SMOW, consolidated by FMWH, and sent to WA within one month after the
end of each quarter. These reports will include: (a) progress achieved against agreed
mplementation and disbursement schedules, and key performance indicators; and (1) work
programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter and for the total project. 'he main
purpose of the reports will be to provide managers timely and updated information on
implementation of project components, highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending
actions and commenting on progress in resolving previous recommendations. The FMWH
will also prepare a Project Completion Report in accordance with IDA guidelines. During
negotations, agrement was obtained on these utmairements
J.    EnvlrommentalAspet
4.31 An environmental assessment has been completed for the proposed MSRP (September
1990). It stated that road construction projects often have adverse impacts an local
environments. These impacts include soil erosion due to improper designs of embankments or
side drains; scouring of the landscape due to borrow pits; and destruction of vegetation due to
clearing of right of ways. In the case of road rehabilitation and reconstruction works, the
environmental impacts tend to be more local and limuted, and result more from reconstruction
activities or improper design. The following impacts could be expected: (i) soil erosion from
side drains and improperly reseeded embankments; (d) environmenta and health problems
associated with the improper restoration of gravel borrow pits; (di) local and temporary air
quality problems due to emissions from bitumen processing plants; and (iv) some destruction



-23 -
of vegeaion along the roads by the clearing of right-of-ways. Aknex 411 provides more
details of the findings of the assessment.
4.32 The impacts of road rehabilitation will vary from state to state as each state has
different environmental conditions, particularly with respect to topography and soil structure.
The severity of enviromnental impacts depends also on the type of rehabilitation work to be
undertaken, such as bituminous resealing, asphalt overlay, or regravelling, and the amount of
clearing associated with these works. la most cases, indirect environmental impacts of road
rehabilitation works under the project will probably not occur, since the road alignments and
gradients will generally remain unchanged.
4.33 The following steps are proposed to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts of the
proposed project: (1) survey of each project road to determine whether and where road
specific environmental impact analysis will be necessary; (1i) involvement of the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) in providing locally adapted environmental
guidelines; (Wii) systematically conducting local public hearing for the population living along
each project road to gather views on environmental issues and concerns related to planned
project activities, and to incorporate these concerns in project planning to the extent possible;
(iv) identification of appropriate or innovative design procedures for dispersing water runoff
for project roads in all states. Under the first MSRP, an Environmental Assessment and
Monitoring Unit (EAMU) will be established in the FMWH headed by an enviro
specialist. This unit will coordinate the environmental aspects of road construction and
maintenance in the states and at the federal level. So far, the FMWH has designated an
environmental specialist from its Environmental Division to be in charge of environmental
impact assessment and monitoring and coordination of similar functions at the state level.
During egotiatdons, the steps to be taken to mitigate adverse environmental impacts were
discussed and agreed upon.
4.34   The final responsibility for implemenion of road specific Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) lies with each participating state. As neither the FEPA nor the SMOWs
have sufficient in-house capabilities at present to conduct ElAs, this function will be
performed initially by consultants working under terns of reference provided by FMWH and
agreed with FEPA and IDA. The consultants would be hired by each participating state under
the framework of the project.
4.35 At the direction of FEPA, the Environmental Protection Commission (EPC) in each
state in Nigeria is in the process of establishing an Environmental Impact Assessment Unit
(EIAU) to assess impacts of various projects in different sectors within the state (Oyo has
already established such a unit). It was agreed during appraisal that the unit would assign one
person from its staff to work in close collaboration with and train under the consultants to
conduct EIA of road subprojects to be implemented under the project in each participaing
state. Suitable tralning related to EIA of roads would be financed under the project.
4.34  Iseyin-rjaiye Road (50 km) in Oyo and the Oshogbo bypass (8 kin) in Oun are new
roads to be constucted under the project. These roads are not passing through any sensitive
area which would pose serious envirommental concers, nor will there be any relocation of
local population necessitated by their construction. An enviromental specialist has been
engaged in making an envionmental Impact assessment of the proposed new roads. His
preliminary report indicates that no significant enviromental and health impacts are envisaged
during construction. Although no major issues are likely to arise, it has been agreed with the



-24-
SMOWs th fina contucton of the rads would be conditional on satisfiaoy resoludon of
any major iues and Inoporadon of steps needed to mitgt adverse impacts.
K.a"sad
4.35   Three IDA supevion missons per year, each stafed by a highway enginee, a
financallintittional analyst and a specialist (such a. an economt, prorement speciist,
envnme nl pciae st, aining specialist, taffic an safety specislist etc.) would be
required on aveage, during the life of the project. Missions would review the physical
components of the project, monitor achieveme of the institutional development objectves,
review ilemenion of the cost recovery measures proposed under the prodect, review
expenditures and flow of funds and agree on remedial measures. The mission reviews would
be don in the context of agreed targets. A proposed supevision plan is given in Annez4
4.36 A mid-term project review involving IDA and relevant goverment agencies would be
held not later than June 1996, the objecdve of which would be to assess: (i) overall progress
in project Implmentation with respect to, inter alia, key monioring idicators agreed with the
Associion, including sta  of road user charges and cost recovery, use of private
contractors, and tainin; Q) pefrmce of the FMWH in its  ordinaig capacity;
(lii) perfomance of the SMOWs as executig agencies; (iv) performance of consultans;
(v) evaluation of the key monorg Indicators; (vi) assessment of eniromentl impacts;
(vii) the axe loads on stae rods and stipuon of an ation pln to de  with over-lodn,
if needed, and (viii) the need for redesign and/or restucturing of project components. In
addition to the mid-term project review, annual reviews would be held before October 31 of
each imlementati  year, to asses progress and eauate performance durig the past year
and revw the work program and budgetary dlocations for the following year with particular
attention focwed on the manpower development and traning progams. During this annal
project eview, evidence of minmum budgetary allocations (agreed in advance with Bank)
would be prvided by the states. Dudng  Ioaons, agr=m=nt w   obtained: (i) on hie
scope and tiing of the mid-tem ad annual reviews; and (i;) that SMOWs will prepare one
month ahead of dme, the reports required for a comprehensive mid-term review.
V. PRQ1}3 lUSIFEICATION AND RIM
5.1 The bendefits of road impovements under the project consist of savings in vehicle
operating costs (VOC) of normal affic and any generated or diverted traffc  where
applicable. Additional befits comprise saving in mteance costs resulting from the
improved condion of roads. Specific invmets have been selected based on economic
analyas using tho methodoogy desried in Annex 5  whih employs the Bankes Highway
Desgn and Mainteac Model (IDM IM) for evaluatng altenatve Ivestments on each of
the road secdons under cons_idon In the state road networks. The cost estima  for the
economic analysis were based on ngineedng studies which were caried out by consultants
during project prepaadon In accordace with agreed design standards. Costs were considered
both In fiacl and economic terms (after adjusing for taxes, duties and subsidies, etc).
Beneft to geneated traffic, where applicable, were computed on the basis of 50% of savings



-25-
in unit VOC. Taffic projecdon over the economic life of a road improvement are based on
a uniform growth rate of 3% per annum.
5.2    Altentves for dermining the extent of works ranged from minimal routine
maintenance on the exising toads to esufacng and complete recowstructuring of the road
pavement. Benefits were evaluated on a wilth and without Investment' basis, derived from
savinp in VOC and reductions in the cost of road maintenace. PFaluation was based on the
net present value (NPV) of all costs and benefits and the economic rates of retu  (ERRs) of
the proposed works on each road secion under consideration. The minimum desirable cut-off
ERR was taken as 12% per anm.
5.3   The cost of equipment and vehicles to be purchased under the project amounts to
about 4%, and tecical   stance components, including manpower development and
training, amount to about 15% of total project cost. These components are of a qualitative
rather than quantitative ntur  and thus no ERR has been calculated for them. They are,
however, exetd to enance the efficiency and susinability of road hmprovements.
5.4   Tables 6 and 7 of AJng  S1 give a summary of the ERRs of selected road
improvements to be implemented in each of the partcipating states under the project.
Estimates of ERRs on individual road projects selected for implementation range from 15 to
over 100%, wIth mnst wods exceeding 40%. Overall weighted average ERR for road
investments In Oyo is 53% and In Osun 32%. The ERR for the combined road investment in
bo  ses (amon g to 81% of tota costs) is 43%. Excluding benefit from the remaining
coponents coitig of technical as_osi , traning, studies and logistical support, but
includig their costs (amountig to 19% of total costs), the composite weighted average ERR
for the whole project is 35%. For road projects to be included in the project it v  agree
auging nexiations hat the mininmum acceptable ERR was 12%.
5.5   There are three major riss asocated wih the project. The first concerns the ability
of new and untried state  ect  agencies to effecdvely manage a large increase in
maintenance opeatio  and the switch to contract works. The second risk concerns state
capacity to maintain an acceptable contacting process. Given the many problems encountered
In implementing contracts in Nigeria over the past decades, extra caution will be required to
ensure that the proper supervision and compledon of contracts is maintained. The third risk
involves the proviion of counterp  fimds which have historically been a major problem in
project implementation in all sectors. The first two risks will be addressed through close and
contiual interactions of the state agencies, coltants, FMWH, and IDA. The third risk will
be addressed by having counterpa  fuds deducted at the source from the Federation
Account
VL &GRM  MD 
6.1    During negotiatiOs, agement was obtained from the Federal and State Govenmments
on the following:
(a)    a pcif  amount of find, not less than $750,000 equivalent to be agreed by
October 31 each year with IDA, will be allocated annually In the budget of



- 26 -
each state for recurrent maintenance of state roads and that these funds will be
released in a timely manner (para 3.16);
O)    the states will adjust the transport related charges sufficiently to recover fully
at least the recurrent road maintenance costs each year (para 3.18);
(c)    road maintenance works to be performed under the Project (ensuring up to
70% of all maintenance works being camed out by the fifth year of Project
execution) will be carried out by the contractors through contrtal
arrangements. (par 4.4);
(d)    by June 30, 1995, axle load surveys would be undertaken by the project states
with a view to develop and implement appropriate load control measures, if
required (para 4.7);
(e)   the details of the manpower development and training plan (para 4.8);
(t)   the states will not undertake any investment for roads estimated to cost more
than US$4.0 million unless such an investment has been reviewed and agreed
upon with the Association (para 4.12);
(g)    FON will onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit to the states at the IBRD's
standard variable interest for 20 years, including five years of grace, and the
states will bear the foreign exchange risk (puar 4.13);
(h)    suitable consultants as required wiUl be appointed by FMWH and the states on
terms and conditions agreeable to the Bank (para 4.20);
(i)    after credit effectiveness, by June 30 each year, the states will submit to the
Bank the auditor's report and audited financial statements of the Special
Accounts, Project Accounts, and SOEs for the preceding calendar year,
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Ihe FMWH
accounts will be audited on a similar basis (para 4.30);
Oj)    key indicators and targets for monitoring project performance and achievement
of development objectives (para 4.31);
(k)    arrangements to conduct ElAs and steps to mitigate any adverse environmental
impacts of the proposed project (para 4.34);
O)    a mid-term project review will be carried out involving IDA and relevant
government agencies not later than June 1996 to evaluate and assess Q) overall
progress made in project implementation with respect to inter alia, key
monitoring indicators agreed with IDA, including status of road user charges
and cost recovery, use of private contractors, and training; (it) performance of
FMWH in its coordinating capacity; (iii) performance of SMOWs as execting
agencies; (7v) evaluation of key monitoring indicators; (v) assessment of
environmental Impacts; (vi) axle loads on state roads and stipulation of an



-27 -
action plan to deal with over-loading, If needed; and (vii) need for redesign
and/or restucturing of project components (para. 4.39);
(m)   the SMOWs wilt rprpare, one month ahead of time, the reports required for a
comprehensive "ii-term review (para. 4.39);
(n)   in addition to the mid-term project review, annual reviews would be held no
later than October 31 of each implementation year to assess progress and
evaluate performance during the past year and review and agree on the work
program and budgetary allocations for the following year with particular
attention focussed on the manpower development and training programs (para
4.39); and
(o)   the minimum acceptable ERR on any road project to be included in the project
would be 12% (para. 5.4);
6.2    The Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are:
(a)    either Oyo State or Osun State has fulfilled all the conditions referred to in
sub-paragraphs Q), (ii) and (iii) below:
(,)    signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the FGN and at least
one of the participating states (para 4.13);
(ii)   implementation, in at least one state of appropriate measures
satisfactory to IDA to increase the level of road user charges collected
at the state level, to recover at least the costs of recurrent maintenan
(para 4.16);
(*ii) appointment of management consultants by at least one participating
state, on terms and conditions agreeable to the Bank (para 4.20); and
(b)    opening by each participating state of a Project Account (n Naira) with an
initial deposit of at least US$280,000 equivalent in Naira in a commercial
bank (pars 4.29).
6.3 The Conditions of Disbursement are:
(a)    signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the state and FGN, for the
state which had not signed such an agreement by the time of credit
effectiveness (para 4.13);
(b)   implementation of appropriate measures, satisfactory to IDA, to increase the
level of road user charges collected at the state level to recover at least the
costs of recurrent maintenance, for the state which had not implemented such
measures by the time of credit effectiveness (pars 4.16); and
(c)    appointment of management consr1tants, for the state which had not appointed
the consultants by the time of credit effectiveness (para 4.20).



- 28 -
6.4   Becomnadon: Based on the agre_mns  eached on the above condtons, tie
Second Multstae Roads ProJect 1 suiable for an IDA credk of SDR 61.4 million (US$85.0
mUlion equivalen) to the Pederal Republic of Nigeda.



- 29 -
Awsn 1-
Page 1 of 5
Nigeris Road Rebbiftlon and MaiiUn tiW£
1.    The World Bank's 1988 report on 'Road Deterioration in Developing Counries:
Causes and Remedies' revealed the magnitude of the loss of road infastucture due to
inadeuate mantenance. Due to the extensive constucdon program the condition of Nigerian
paved roads has been bettethan avere i Africa. However, the deteioration process along
the Nigerlan road nework has already brought more paved roads to the class 'poor' th  the
average in Africa ad the situation with unpaved roads is even worse.
Table 1: EstImated Condition of the Main Road Network in Nigeria and Africa in 1989
Condition of roads i %              Good         Fair          Poor
Nigerian main paved roads            67%           5%           28%
Nigerian main unpaved roads           0%          10%           90%
African paved roads average          45%          31%           24%
African unpaved roads vg.            26%    _     34%           40%
2.    Studies have revealed ihat the reasons for poor condition of African roads are mainly
insttional and managerial, but also financia and thical. Strong local commitment is
needed to reform policies related to road mint ce, to improve the operation and
management of road agencies, to develop human resources and to use road related funds to
maitain the existng network  As a first step toward addressing these issues and helping
governments improve their own capacities to address trsport problems, the Sub-Saharan
Africa Transport Program (SSATP) was initiaed in 1987.
flLI oa Mduame btatMD
3.    The MI R has been developed as one of the centrl components of the SSATP, as an
effort to define and resolve any road maitance policy issues by the participating countries
themselves. Ihe RMI is a joint undertaking of the United Nadons Economic Commission for
Africa and several Development Agencies coordinated by the World Bank. The RMI was
deigned to facilitate national policy dialogue, to sdect Importat themes for reform, to create
positive enviroment for the reform process and to brtig about sustained reforms in the
selected road madntenance policies.



- 30 -
AnneA 1-
Page 2 of 5
4.    The RMN is being implemented in a phased approach. During the first phase all of
the SSA countries participated in one of the six regional seminars held from May 1989 to
February 1990 in Harare, Accra, Addis Ababa, Dakar, Libreville and Antananarivo. During
these seminars the participating country teams identified the sources of the main problems
associated with road deter-oration and poor maintenance in their countries, set clear goals,
devised a policy strategy to achieve these goals and finally specified the measures to be
carried out by government institutions and agencies in their countries.
5.    The seminars followed the Policy Action Planning (PAP) method developed by the
Carl Duisberg Gesellscbaft, a training institute of Cologne, Germany. The PAP method
brought the participants to work together as a national team to choose a limited number of
goals as national priorities. Those goals were transformed into concrete objectives. The
participants then defined the measures needed to achieve these objectives.
6.    The second phase of the RMI focuses on facilitating the process for policy reforms in
a limited number of selected countries. It has been designed to support the development,
introduction, adoption and implementation of improved policies, related to one or more
important aspects of road planning, maintenance and administration, in a limited number of
volunteering countries. The RMI Phase II is carried out in those countries that express an
interest in developing road maintenance from the policy perspective, indicate their
commitment to undertake reforms and for which key donors have expressed an interest in
financial support.
RMI in Nigeria
7.    The RMI phase II in Nigeria is called Nigeria Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Initiative (NRRMI). It is intended to enable Nigerian policy makers and senior managers to
assist Nigeria in improving its road maintenance policies and strategies. It will be the link
between the various efforts in Nigeria being undertaken by Federal Government, State
Governments, private organizations, development banks and donor agencies to improve road
maitnnce.
8.    The overall development objective is to secure sustainable improvements in road
sector performance In Nigeria. The immediate NRRMI objectives are:
(a)   to ensure that the need for reform is recognized, and to build up motivation
and commitment to address the problems;
(b)   to facilitate through NRRM, the identification of appropriate policy options
and promote the adoption of these policies; and
(c)   to support and monitor the implementation of the adopted policies and to
assess their effectiveness.
be DevWomet of 
9.    A team of nine officials represented Nigeria at the RMI Phase I Seminar in   Accra
on June, 1989. The participating officials identified two major areas for further development
for policy reforms:



- 31 -
Annm I-
Page 3 of S
(a)   inadequate road maintenance funding; and
(b)   the need to establish an autonomous Road Agency.
10.   To initiate the RMI Phase H the Government of Nigeria in February 1991 expressed
Its willingness to take the following actions in order to enter Phase II of the RMI:
(a)   select policy issues for review;
(O)   establish an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee for the RMI Nigeria; and
(c)   establish a Secretariat and appoint a National Coordinator (NC) for RMI.
The National Road Maint. Policy Seminar (RMPS_. Otta, Qoun State, September, 1991
11.   To launch the RMI Phase II in Nigeria, a Seminar on Road Maintenance Policy
Reform was organized by the Nigerian Institute of Transport Teihnology (NlTI) on behalf of
the FMWH and in collaboration with the World Bank at the Gateway International Hotel,
Ota, Ogun State from the 9 to 13 September, 1991. The objectives of the Seminar were:
(a)   to raise and sustain awareness and commitment for mainining and
rehabilitating the Nigerian road network;
(b)   to identify issues mitigating against effectve road maintenance; and
(c)   To develop policy action planning capacity amongst the participating
institutions and government organizations.
12.   The Seminar was headed by the Hon. Ministers of Works and Housing, and Transport
and Communication, and attracted more than hundred participants from the Federal and State
organizations. The RMPS revealed a number of key matters to be reformed when aiming at
improvements in road maintenance. These issues were elaborated into the following nine
recommendations in the Seminar Communique:
(a)   increase in recurrent and periodic maintenance funding;
(b)   establishment of a Federal Highway Authority;
(c)   improved training for highway sector civil servants;
(d)   support for competent indigenous contractors;
(e)   safeguarding of public highway property;
(t)   inclusion of maintenance training in university level curricula;
(g)   use of contractors for road maintenace;



32 -
Arm= 1-1
Page 4 of S
(b)   approre use of labor intensive and ligtly mecbanized metods in road
()       henig of pavements and stricter axle load control.
0)    need for Improved management procedures, methods and system.
13.   Some additonal issues arising from the rwiew and assessment of current FHD
operatons are:
(a)   adoption of 'resealing' in maintenance activities;
(b)   poor disemination of study reports as well as avaiable data in the Pavement
Evaluation Unit and the Traing Centers;
(c)    need for substatW increase in the 1st and 4th quarter budget allocations for
road maintenance works;
(d)   insttionalizing the separation of planning and monitoring functions from
those of execution; and
(e)   clearing the maintenance backlog.
NRRI Ifroect Domn
14.   A Project Document has been prepared by a local consultant under the Suance of the
National Coordinator and World Bank AP4IN and AFTIN RMI Unkt, in order to frther
develp policy reforms. The following issues have been selected in the Project Document as
the first priority policy reform topics:
(a)   sufficient maintece financing through a Road Fund;
(b)   increased use of contractors in road maintenance;
(c)   establishment of the Pederal Highway Authority.
15.   The selected priority issues as well as the remaining issues as staed above, are further
elaborated In the NRRUMI Project Docment. A Plan of Operation is also included in the
Project Document for studies, seminars and policy reforms.



- 33 -
PageS of S
16. The following studies are proposed In the Project Document:
(a)   stdy of fiancing road maitenance                     US$100.000
(b)   use of conWactors to perform road maineace           USS 60,000
(c)   preparton of a 10-year Road Progra                   US$300,000
(d)   Road sector manpower and training needs              US$250,000
(e)    Use of labor intensive and lightly mechanized
road maintenance methods                            uS$00
Total        USS810-NQ
The Project Documet recommends these studies to be taken as part of the consequeat
Highway Secor and Multise Roads Projects.
TMe Role of States In NBMI
17.   As part of the NRRMI there will be three Regional Road Mainenace Policy
Seminas during 1992-1993. The focus on these seminars will be on state level improvemet
of applied maintnce policies and the cooperation between federal and state authorities. The
first regional seminar will focus on the selected three priority reform issues. It will be held in
conjction with the launching of the MSRP. The swdies and reports prepared under NRRMI
will be discussed with and delivered to the states. NRRM will support the state level policy
reforms and contribute to the state road sector seminars within its capacity. Under the
NRRMI the federal and state officials, the Indigenous stakeholders, the donor and aid
organizations will be brought together to reinforce the efforts in mwoving road mantenance
in all levels in Nigeria.



- 34 -
Annex 2-1
Page I of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND MUITISTATE BOADS PROJECT
Past Bank Involvement in the Road Sub-Sector
1.    There have been eight projects in the highway sub-sector, including the road
component of a transportation rehabilitation project. In summary, the project content was as
follows:
(a)    Northern Road Project (Credit 73-UNI, March 1965). This credit was made
to the Northern Region of Nigeria, and financed road construction,
construction supervision by consultants, and the supply of materials testing
equipment and weigh bridges.
(b)    Apapa Road Project (Loan 426-UNI, September 1965). This was a section of
urban road which consisted of the Ijora Causeway (1.2 miles) and Apapa Road
(2.5 miles) both to 4-lane divided standard.
(c)    Western Road Project (Loan 427-UNI, September 1965). This loan was on-
lent to the Western Region. It covered trunk road improvements and
consulting services for the supervision of works and detailed engineering, and
reorganized maintenance operations. It also included the procurement of
maintenance equipment and spare parts.
(d)    Road Rehabilitation Project (Loan 640-UNI, November 1969). The project
included the rehabilitation of about 200 miles of roads in the Lagos-Kano
corridor, and detailed engineering of the Lagos-lbadan expressway.
(e)    Transoortation Rehabilitation Proiect (Loan 694-UNI, June 1970). This was
intended to be a quick disbursing loan to rehabilitate priority transport
infrastructure that had been damaged during the 1967-70 civil war. Project
components were only tentatively identified at appraisal, consisting of eight
road sections, and consultants for engineering and construction supervision.
(f)    Fifth Highway Project (Loan 883-UNI, June 1974). As appraised, the project
provided for: (i) rehabilitation of 109 miles of highways and reconstruction of
eight bridges, (ii) consulting services for construction supervision, feasibility
studies and detailed engineering, plus technical assistance for improvements in
federal highway management planning and maintenance, and (iii) acquisition
of highway planning and vehicle weight control equipment.
(g)    Six_t Highway Proie (Loan 1883-UNI, August 1980). The project
components provided for: (a) strengthening about 520 km of federal trunk
roads, (b) studies of the Calabar-Ikom road, and establishing improvement
priorities on the federal trunk road system, (c) technical assistance for a
training program for technicians, and personnel planning, design, construction
and maintenance in FHD, and a pavement evaluation unit, (d) housing for



- 35 -
Annex 21
Page 2 of 4
technical assistance staff, and (e) highway safety equipment and pavement
evaluation equipment.
(h)    Highway Sector Loan (Loan 2963 UNI, September, 1989) The loan became
effective as of March 30, 1990. The loan was to support FHD's highway
sector program over the 1989-91 period. It required the following significant
changes in FHD's past practices:
(i)    highway expenditures to reflect substantial changes in favor of routine
maintenance, rehabilitation, and strengthening;
(ii)   improved planning and programming of proposed improvement works
by carrying out economic analyses;
(iii) more orderly budgeting and planning, and systematic preparation of
detailed designs;
(iv)   civil works lots to consist of road sections approximately 50 km long
which will enable most contracts to be completed in 12 to 18 months;
(v)    better supervision of rehabilitation, strengthening, new construction,
and routine maintenance.
2.    A ninth project, the Multi-State Roads Project I, has recently been approved by the
Board on July 21, 1992.
3.    No Project Completion or Audit Reports were written on the Northen Road Project.
The road construction encountered significant technical problems during and immediately after
execution.
4.    The Apapa Road project (PPAR No. 1229, July 1976) was eventually completed
successfully, and in spite of cost and time overruns the project was economically justified.
Issues discussed in the Project Performance Audit Review (Report No. 1229, July 1976)
were:
(a)    The quality of the original technical design: the consultant chosen by FHD (on
the basis of price as later revealed) to review the FHD design proved to be
incompetent.
(b)    Use of consultants for construction supervision: the consultants began work in
July 1966; the Bank had proposed supervision by consultants, but accepted a
compromise that the consultants act in an advisory capacity to FHD which
insisted it had competent staff. The subsequent Tribunal of Inquiry considered
that the Bank would have been justified in insisting on full construction
supervision by the consultants.
(c)    The traffic capacity of the initial design was inadequate and was more than
doubled during the redesign.



- 36 -
Am 2-1
Page 3 of 4
(d)   The Goveament did not comply with some loan covenants. lTe Bank may
have chosen not to enforce these behs of the civil war in progress at the
time. Irregularities in the adminion of the project led to the appointment
of a Tribunal of Inquiry and the removal of the FHD Director from office.
5.    The works included in the Western Road Project (PPAR No. 1639, June 1977), were
successfully completed, but there was only limited success in improving maitenance
operations as the Government lacked adequate masagement personnel, funds, and control over
heavy vehicles. The Government was late with payments to consultants and contractors, and
there was delay in appointing the maintenance advisors becuse of disagreement between the
Government and the Bank over the teams of service for the advisors.
6.    The main objective of the Road Rehabilitation Project (PPAR No. 1410, January
1977) was the rapid rehabilitation of two road sections. Project processing was prompt and
flexible, but loan effectiveness and contract awards were delayed, the first by 4 months more
han expected, and the second by a year. As a result the roads contned to deteriorate and
rehabilitation was much more extensive than expected, rausing costs and ultimately less than
half the original length was built. The study of the Lagos-Ibadan road led to a major
disagreement between the Government and the Bank about the tining of construction.
7.    For the Transport Rehabilitation Project (PPAR NO. 2092, June 1978), despite
modification of the Bank's procedures, the intended rapid disbu nt did not materialize.
The delays were caused by the Bank's need for economic analysis during the identication'
of sub-projects, and by the Government's slow procurement. The slow procurement under
the Road and Transport Rehabilitation Projects was partly related to the Tribunal of Ilquiry
on the Apapa Road Project.
8.    The execution of the Fifth Highway Project (PPAR No. 3244, December 1980)
covered a period of major disaBgreement on highway matrs between the Government and the
Bank. As a result no supervision missions visited Nigeria between September 1975 and May
1978. Execution of civil works was generally satisfactory except for poor corractor
performance on one lot, which reduced the length of highways completed from 109 to 99
miles. All the bridges were completed satisfactorily. The institutional development was less
successfil. Measures for improving federal highway maintenance were well conceived but
reallocation of responsibility for mntenance from PHD to SMOWs made the consultants'
efforts of marginal relevance. The Government made only limited progress on implementing
loan covenants on axle-loading and building up a data base, because these were not priority
objectives for PHD. Apparently, conditions offered were not sufficient to attract high caliber
experts to Nigeria to build the capacity of PHD, although eventuly a taffic engineer was
seconded from the British Transport and Road Research Laboratory for eighteen months. He
was assisted by two experts funded by United States Agency for Inetenational Development.
9.    The Sixth Highway Project was completed September 30, 1988. The road
strengthening works have been completed, together with the acquisition of highway safety
equipment and pavement evaluation equipment. Instttional development was limited. The
pavement evaluation unit was established, although its role is only now being defined under
the Highway Sector Loan. Other than the consultants for matance monitoring, the posts
foreseen in planning, design and construction were not filled. This was partly due to



.37-
Annex 2-1
Page 4 of 4
administrative delays, but also to a Government desire to reduce the amount of expatriate
assistance.
Highwav Sector Loan
10.   The Highway Sector Project is approximately 15% completed. Overall, the project is
about 2 years behind schedule. As of December 31, 1992 the loan has disbursed about
US$43 million against the original SAR fbrecast amount of US$213 million. Now, the
project management and coordination consultants are in place; progress has improved. About
27 contracts for design work have been signed. Suppliers for procurement of equipment have
been selected and the contracts are soon to be awarded (US$2.1 million). Tenders for nine
road projects (US$40 million) have been invited and prequalification of contractors for
another six roads (US$30 million) is in progress.
11.   Financial Covenants: The Special Account, Project Accounts, and the Statements of
Expenditure under the project were audited in December 1991 and June 1992. The auditors'
reports have been found satisfactory.
12.   Eunding: The allocation of budgetary resources for capital and recurrent expenditure
has improved in 1992. As of June 1992 about N500 million have been spent on capital
expenditure (including supplementary allocation) and the annual allocation is expected to be
about 9% of the total federal capital budget. Similarly, allocation for recurrent expenditure
has increased from N254 million in 1991 to W368 million in 1992. However, due to past
inadequate investments in periodic and routine maintenance, a large fraction of the recurrent
expenditure continues to be made on emergency and special repair projects, leaving litde for
programmed routine maintenance. The FHD is in the process of implementing pilot schemes
for programmed routine maintenance by contract. Government has allocated N8 million for
initial expenditure.
13.   Road User Charles: After the delay of 18 months in getting started, the road user
charges study was successfully completed in May, 1992. Draft recommendations have been
presented to FMWH. The study shows revenue from federal taxes and duties on importation
of vehicles and petroleum products, and from road tolls already exceed the desirable recurrent
maintenance expenditure on federal roads. Nevertheless, the study recommerds imposing a
fiel surcharge of 23 Kobo/liter on the price of gasoline, and 9 Kobo/liter on diesel to cover
the recurrent maintenance expenditure on state and federal roads. An action plan has been put
together by FMWH, for consideration by IDA and Government.
14.   Implementation Delas: The delays in implementation currently experienced under
the project are a result of the bureaucratic decision making process. Almost every decision
has to go through the Minister, before which time it must go through the Director of the
Federal Highways and the Director General. For the same reason, the ability of the
internationally recruited project management consultants is greatly hampered in terms of
speeding up implementation. These and other implementation issues have been discussed with
the Government and FMWH during a sector implementation review held in Nigeria in June
1992. As a result of that review, US$50 million was canceled from the outstanding loan
balance as of January 1. 1993.



..   EEAL RWVBLQCOF HIORA
SCCOND MULTISTATE ROADS PROJCT
CIIARACTI!RISTICS OF STATO ROAD HNiTWORKS, 1988
Road Projects h.t&ed In 4th S-yr Pla (1981-
Road Lensh       ravd Road      IS5) or tdab/Constr.Returfacing to:
Road                                               Wllb ADT a 300  Wtbh AlDT L$              Pavedl   Upaved
Ndwork  hravedR         Cond;in or State R -o (a)      or Moro          Tg30                 Lond4 Stwd -rd             TOw
(km)      (km)   )   % Good  s Pt  S poor    (km)  SPavd                     (km)             (kai)      (km)          (km)
Aasbubrl0gu        1636       320  19         21      16       63       733      (41)             0              IOo          0          110w
Dracm              1480 ()250  11             1        0      .89       182    (100)              68             770          0           7T0
DIam2D             3304      1490  4S         21      SO .   29        1117      (82)            570            2400          0          2Q00
_eau              2950        S30  18         23      40       3?      1118      (36             142             940       1350          2290
Dotsdsle           1700 (a)   149   9          0      I00       0       149    (100)               0             1700         0          1700
Akwolbe            1964       310  16         24.   30.        46  '.439          (66)            25              S00       350          1150
cla leff ba,    1165          240  21         69        0      31       352      (S5)             46              140       390          1030
I=dn ha            1217       780  64         29       32      39       920      (35)              0             1290          0         1290
K         _duAtsla  1880     109051           78       16       6       1096      (9)              0              730        S30          1260
Kanigsawa          1390      1000  72         68       2S       7       825       (89)           266             1620          0          1620
KwaItlKu           1189       210  I8          4        4      92        313     (S)             64             1000          0          1000
Lqoa                370    ) 3S0  96          7S       17       S       207       (97)           148              320          0          320
Niger               700       447 58          42      2X        30      450       (90)             0              300        660           960
Oreg                917 (b) 400 44            34       33      32       497       (67)            70              780        SO0          1280
Ondto              2160      1120 52           3       24      73       1170      (68)           330             2500          0          2500
Oydolw2 1099 (b)  480  44                     2S       22      S3        387      (6a)           220             1340.   1520             2860
Platma             2242       240  11         IS       4        37       39S      (56)            25              540        S60          1100
lIvrs               535       4791            0        12       19       241      (9)            255             1090          0          1090
SokddKMbbl         2620       SR   21         50       2S       2S       526      (78)            124            1220         SO      .1270
TOTALS            30548     10434  34                                                                           20180       6410         26S90
(a) Coditon daa baed on a 20-95% smple orf state toad wit  ADT of 250 r mo. Th overal condica of &We rmadnetkS
, lkyto be m*uc woo "ae he dwidke sho aboov. s udo coodio statlsic do OM InCdt lower volume oads
whic ore generally Ins wwors aedkiton.
(bi)  lat c   bla sban abd Won*   adsb.
(e) 1 tA
sem  Rept No. 7344-UNI. -Pedea Republic of N4gelr: Road Sedotr Sate  Pspe. Jury 199M. World Dak 
S



- 39 -
Anne
Page 1 of 2
FERAL REEUNJ OF MIGERA
SECONIE ROADS PROJECT
Selected Information on Protect States
A. OYOSI
1.    Oyo state is located in the south west section of the Federal Republic of Nige&id. It is
bounded in the east by Osun state, in the west, by the Republic of Benin (formerly Dahomey),
in the north by Kwara state and in the south, by Ogun state.
2.    Together with Osun state, Oyo state covers an area of about 35,750 square kilometers
and it is fairly urbanized. Ibadan, the capital of Oyo state is a very cosmopolitan town. It is
reputed to be the largest indigenous city in Africa, south of the Sahara. It is one of the
largest industrial cities in the country. It has both private and public businesses and seves
both the southern and northern areas of the country.
3.    The town of Oyo has an important historical backgound. it is famous for its past
warrior kings and it is well noted for carvings particularly of calabashes and the fabrication of
native drums. Iseyin, another sizeable town in Oyo state lies north of Oyo town. It is noted
for the weaving of native cloth fabrics.
4.    Oyo state has two universities within its geographical area. University of Ibadan is a
federal institution while the Ladoke Akintola University of Tecdnology situated in
Ogbomolsho is owned by the State.
5.    Oyo state has two major climatic seasons, the dry and the wet. The wet season
commences around April and lasts till October while the remaining five months are relatively
dry. In the southern part of the state, the vegetation is both thick and deciduous. To the
north, it is predominantly grassland that is suitable for arable crops. The average rainfall is
61.3 cm in the south and 50.3 cm in the north.
6.    Agricutural production in Oyo state consists of a wide variety of food and cash crops.
The food crops include yam, maize, cassva, beans, millet, plantains and banana. Fruits, like
oranges, tangerine are also produced in appreciable quantities. The cash crops are primarily
cocoa and palm produce. Ihe area is suitable for catde and in the 1960s, dairy farming by
government was extensively practiced at Fashola, a village some kllometers north of Oyo
town. Farming and fishing (on a limited scale) form the major agicultural activities of the
state. The Intenational Insdtitte of Tropical Agriculture, the Cocoa Research Institute of
Nigeria and the Federal Department of Agricultural Research are all located in Ibadan.
7.    Provisional results from the 1991 census put the present population of Oyo state at
about 3.5 million.



- 40 -
Annex
Page 2 of 2
B.  OSl
8.    Osun state was ceated out of the old Oyo stat in August 1991 and hares the same
imatic c. It s bounde In the ea by Ondo stae, in the west, by Oyo state, in
the north by Kwara sat and In the south by Ogun stte.
9.    The population of the State is provisnlly put at about 2.2 million. The agriculUral
activities are simiar to tos In Oyo state but being a young state, It has yet to develop its
industrial potentias. However, a fairly large brewery operes near Ilesha.
10.   Osun state however, has a disinctive tourist attaction in the annual Osun fesival
which is held at the Osun dr. During  e fsval, presents arebrought to e goddess of
the river and blessings, prosperity and pro-caton are invobd on all Osun state women
11.   Furthermor, the ancie CitY of lle-fe is shated in Osun state. Its believed to be
the origin of all Yorubas both in Nigeria and the diaspora.
C. WZEIE[ATIsrlcs
Total Estimated PopulatIon, 1991
Oyo                                          3.49 million
Osun                                         2.20 million
Total Area                                 3750 km
EwdIui Pattern budggtL 1991 (N milion)
Total exepnditure                             1,702
Total capital expeItue                         767
Amount allocated to Roads                      72
Amount allocated to Roads as % of
capital expedit                                9%
Amount allocated to Roads as % of
total ependitu                                 4%
Main Source. of Revenue for the States (ctuafl (N mfllion)
122  1 9 M   (udget)
Story allocatio from the
Federal Govenmnst               792   982   1262
Intal Reveue Mobiization         341   381   259



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGEtIA.
SECOND MULTITrATE ROADS PROJECr
SUMMARY OF GOVERNM9EN  RECURRENr REVENUE
Cm Naira mllions)
OYO/OSUN
1986   1 1987     1988     1989       1990     1991
TAXES                           38.49   43.00    49.14     63.76     74.06    99.26
FEES & FINES                    37.29   68.82    55.40     50.49     51.20    61.07
Vehide Ownership Transfer       0.02    0.06     0.07      0.06      0.07      0.08
Vehbide Regisraon               0.07    0.02     0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01
Fmns & Towing                   n.a.    n.a.     na.        n.a.      La.      na.
Road Worthiness Test            0.32    1.13     0.23       0.25     0.25      0.26
Paking Charges                  n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.      na.
Subtotal Transport             0.41    1.21     0.31       0.32      0.33     0.35
LICENSES                        10.31   10.82    11.01      11.94     11.41    11.98
Drivers License                 0.90    1.04     1.20      1.17      2.77     4.52
Motor Vhicle License            6.27    5.15     6.01      6.30      5.97     5.38
Hackney Permts                  0.37    0.35     'b43      0.54      0.56      0.55
Subtotal Transport             7.54    6.54     7.c;       8.01      9.30    10.45
Total Transport                7.95    7.75     7.95       8.33      9.63    10.80
EARNINGS & SALES                10.91    n.a.    n.a.      22.39     22.87     n.a.
STATUTORY ALLOCATION          264.10  318.24   551.48    729.21    982.01      n.a.
OTHER                           9.52    n.a.     n.a.      23.68     11.75     n.a.
TOTAL                     378.57  448.63   674.98    909.80   1162.93   183.11
Transport as % of Total
Revenue exc.Stat.Alloc.         6.95   5.94%    6.44%      4.61%     5.32%     n.a.
to 
x
0I
Data reflect actual revenue for each year.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF MGERIA
SECOND MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF STATE GOVERENT RECEIPrS AND EXPENDITURES
(in Naira millions)
I ___________________ -_             _ L_ --             -   'OYOIOSUN
REVENUE/EXPEND.              Budget             Actual              Budget             Actual              Budget
PATTERN                       1989      %        1989       %       1990                 990       %        1991    %
Statutory Revenue from
Federation Account           590.42    60.60    792.21    58.88    129.00      56.05    982.01    66.96    1262.00   74.13
Internal Revenue             298.24    30.62    341.45    27.57    411.54      31.64    380.92    25.97    258.86   15.21
Capital receipts             85.55     8.78     167.66     13.54    160.00     12.30    103.64    7.07     181.55   10.66
Total Receipts               974.21    100.00   1238.31    100.00   1300.54    100.00   1466.57    100.00   1702.43  100.00
Current Expenditures         683.55    70.10    688.80    55.90    855.80      65.81    863.93    61.49    934.92   54.91
Of which Road Maint.          5.00               7.2                 8.12               10.5                7.9
Maint. % of Curr. Exp.                 0.73                1.00                1.00               1.20              0.53
Capital Expenditures         290.66    29.84    543.38    44.09    444.74      34.19    541.07    38.51    767.51   45.09
of which Road Capital Exp.   22.77              29.26              32.44               58.72               71.76
% of Capital Expenditure              7.8                 5.4                 7.3                10.9               9.0
Total Expenditures           974.21    100.00   1232.18    100.00   1300.54    100.00   1405.00   100.00   1702.43  100.00
Roads Financing               29.11              36.26               40.56              68.77               71.96
Roads Financing as %           3%                 3%                 3%                  5%                  4%
of Total Receipts
1=--=1 =
a0iX



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND MULTISIATE ROAD PROJECT
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PArrERNS
(Naira milions)
SECTOR/Subsector                                             OYOIOSUN
1989                          1990                            1991
_ __ Approved   AApproved                   Acal             Approved
ECONOMIC
Ariculkw  & Rural Dcv.                  26.54        45.44            86.2        64.56              85.26
Livestock                               0.77          0.9"             2.71        0.20               4.24
}ortty                                   1.17         na.              0.24        0.24               1.25
Fisberies                               0.49          0.89             2.67        0.15               3.80
Maau&cturing                            n.a.         o.a.              n.a.       n.a.                na.
Powe                                     n.a.        n.a.              n..        n.a.                na.
Commerce, Finane                        14.65        77.41            33.30       39.95              81.77
Transport                              32.04        107.12           44.57        92.80             89.87
Subtotal                               74.66        221.81           170.21      197.79             266.19
SOCIAL SERVICES
Education                               27.35        31.19            75.31       139.71             103.88
Hafth                                   12.66        31.77            28.43       21.32              60.25
in6mntd_                                24.29        23.10            12.38       25.60              38.85
Soeial Deopmet                           S.2         13.67             6.S0        6.56              12.30
Subtotal                               69.54         99.73           122.62      193.18             215.27
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Waler Supply                            32.85        56.25            7035        48.98              97.90
Sewerg & Draiage                         2.40         6.39            15.92       12.18              57.70
Housing                                 n.a.         n.a.             18.16      - 25.13             27.69
Town & Couty Plnnig                     12.99        20.74            18.14        0.70               7.41
Community Devlpmend                      n.a.        n.a.              n.a.       n.a.                n.a.
Subtotl                                48.24         83.37           122.57       86.99             190.05
oI:
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIN                   94.08        119.33            30.54       S8.00              63.05
GRAND TOTAL                           286.52        534.24          445.94       535.96            735.21                 w x
o w
Tnspot   e         as % of                                                                                                  I W
Totl Capital bExEnd                      11.81%       20.05%           9.99%       17.31%            12.22%                W



- 44 -
Page 1 of 5
Mm %1PUBL1C OF MGMA
3CQ MUfII   ROQADS URQa
State m MaIninaa St LR2W              i!
Ititrdiction
1.    Desirable costs for recurrent (routine) maintenac  of state roads range from about
N7,000 per km for the lower volume unpaved roads (ADT < 300 vpd) to about N17,900
per km for the higher volume (ADT > 1500 vpd) asphalt concrete roads. When the
annualized costs for periodic manteance are also added, total mntenance costs (excluding
rehabilitation and constuction) range from N 18,000 to N57,000 per km. On this basis,
annual deirable Maintena   costs for the sates of Oyo and Osu are N30.5 and N29.5
million respedvely, of which recrrent cost constitute N 10.6 million and N9.72 million
respectively. In comparison, the esdmed total road transport related revenue at the state
level amounts to N5.98 million and X4.98 million in Oyo and Osun respectively. Tables 1
and 2 give summaries of the recurrent maintenamce costs and total (recurrent and periodic)
maitenance costs in relation to the total transport related revenue generated in the two states.
2.    As seen from these tables, the revenue amounts to oidy 19% and 16% of the totl
maintenance costs or 56% and 50% of recurrent maintenance costs respectively, for Oyo and
Osun.
Ir- Rdat Ran=
3.    Table 3 shows typical rates of road user charges and fees currendy levied by the states
in Nigeria and the specific ones levied in Oyo/Osun. Average yearly amounts collected by
the states vary from a maximum of N26 million for Lagos to a low of about N 1.0 million for
Benue. The main source of revenue is by far the motor vehicle license fees which represent
about 65% of all revenue, followed by driver's license fees amoundng to about 15%. The
total revenue collected by all states in Nigeria amounted to N82.9 million in 1988 and N84.8
million in 1990.
Cest Rery
4.    Table 4 shows a summary of recurrent and total mainteance expenditure required to
keep the entire sate road network in Nigeria in good condition. Recurrent maintenance costs
amount to N213 million while total maintenance costs, including periodic maintenance but
excluding rehabilitation and construction costs, amount to N537 million. In comparison, the
I/    Figures in this Annex are based on data available as of December 1991. On the basis
of the projected inflation rates and assuming 60% of the cost are in foreign
exchange, the expected increase in m_ntenace cost is 18% in 1992, 12% in 1993,
8% in 1994 and 6% per annum thereafter.



- 45 -
Annex 3-
Page 2 of S
totl revene collected at the state levd in 1990 (N84.8 million) represe only 40% of the
recurret maintn  requiment, and only 16% of th tota maint en   requiement. To
reover at loast the reret mannce costs at the state level, the sates should be required
to incee on averag the road user ches and fees by a fictor of 2.5. Considaing the
rates hav not cange  gn dy In Mt states since 1986, ths inr    woud be rgard
reaonable in lIht of the generally high Infladon rate In the coury.
S.    In the longr,  the full cost of recurrnt and periodic  dm ds to be
recovered from road users. This can be done more efficiendy by Including a pump sales tax
on feud to generate dw bulk of the rwonues neceay for highway mantenance needs.
Costitutally, only the Federal Goverment can regulat fud prices and levy sales tax on
fuel. A recent study by consultants has esdm     that a fuel tax of Kobo 23 on petrol and
Kobo 9 on dised per liter would be required to trecver fully recurret _ahice
expenditre on Federa and State roads. Ihe tax would have to Increase to Kobo 61 and
Kobo 27 per liter respecvely on petrol and diesel respectively, to recover the full cost of
road maintenance, i.e. recurt and periodic.
iTabl 1: Recurrent Road Maintewce Costs
State Roads                      Unit Cost         Oyo               Osun
(N/kn)           (km)              (km)
AC Paved
ADT <  1500                       12,800          153               S0
>  1500                      17,900          61                56
SD Paved
ADT <  1500                       10,800          199               276
>  15m                       14,900          46               184
Unpaved
ADT <  300                         7,000          259               128
>  300                       8,000           368              182
Subtotal                                           1,086              876
Annual Routine
Costs (Nm)                               10.64              9.72
1991 Road Trasport Re e                              5.98              4.82
Revenelrota  Costs (%)                              56%                50%
SouCe: Lr1 inc., Road User Clarges and Axle Load Study, Pbase One Report 1991.



- 46 -
Annex 34
Page 3 of S
Table 2: Total (Recurrent and Periodic) Road Maintenance Costs
State Roads                    Unit Cost             Oyo             Osun
(N/km)              (km)            (km)
AC Paved
ADT <  1500                      39,160            153              50
>  1500                    57,500             61              56
SD Paved
ADT <  1500                      33,850            199             276
>  1500                    49,450             46              184
Unpaved
ADT <  300                       18,000            259              128
>  300                     20,000            368              182
1,086            876
Subtotal
Annual Total
Maintenance Costs (Nm)                                30.53            29.5
1991 Road Transport Revenue                            5.98             4.98
Revenue/Total Costs (%)                                19.6%            16%
Source: LBI Inc., Road User Charges and Axle Road Study, Phase One Report, November
1991.



- 47 -
Page 4 of 5
Table 3: ate of Road Transport Related State Taxes
(Naira per anum)
Mg=  VEHICLE LIENSES FEES:
Other than commercial                                     Ave aQe yQo/Osun
1000 kg                                            50       69
1500 kg                                            90       100
2000 kg                                            140      170
mmercial
1000 kg                                            72       61
5000 kg                                            205      204
8000 kg                                            256      252
120010 kg                                          314      286
25000 kg                                           578       460
40000 kg                                           796       790
Annual Hackney gayable by owner
Taxi                                                150      30
D)anfo                                              125      53
Molue                                               150      106
911 Bus                                            300       106
Trailers                                           250       106
Tankers                                            250       106
Various Fees.
Registration of Motor Vehicle                        5        5
Change of Ownership                                  5        5
Driver's License Profesisonal                       10        10
Private                               5        5
Examination of Commercial Vehicles                   5        5
(every 6 months)
Sources: LBI Inc., Road User Charges and Axle Load Study,
Phase One Report, November 1991.
OYO Ste Government.



- 48 -
A4
Page 5 of 5
Table 4: Maintenance Costs fbr State Road Network
Length   RecffentManeBgikMaIm
State Roads          (km)   (N/knm)    Total (Nm)    (N/km)  Total (Nm)
AC Paved
ADT < 1500          1,536       11,355     17.44    34,715          53.32
> 1500           171       15,872      2.71    50,912           8.71
SD Paved
APT < 1500          9,133        9,589     87.58    20,989         191.69
> 1500         1,015       13,222     13.42    43,822          44.48
Unpaed
ADT < 300           4,580        5,799     26.56    14,799          67.78
> 300          7,79         8,402     65.53    21,902         170.81
Total                                     213.24                   536.79



- 49 -
AnUneL41
Page 1 of 2
Mm"E^ REPUBLI OF lfGERIA
SECOND MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Desl Stagdards
1.    New construction In Nigeria follows the Federal Highway Department (FHD) design
standards manuai. 'Mese standards are based on the U.S. AASHTO standards and are
acceptable. Relatively little In the way of new contracts for construction on new alignments
wil be undertaken under MSRP.
2.    In Nigeria, asphalt concrete overlays are the standard method of applying
srengthening courses to bituminous surfaced roads. The deteriorated state of the roads often
requires extensive rehabilitation or patching before the overlay is applied. In the past, the
overlay thickness applied was often 40 to 50mm, which was frequendy insufficient to carry
the heavily overloaded axles found in Nigeria. The Pavement Evaluation Unit (PEU)
etablished under the Sixth Highway Project has developed a methodology for the Nigerian
environment for dimensioning overlays, which will be applied in the project. All pavement
desig under the project will take into account the recent increase in legal axle local limit
from 10 to 11.5 tons/axle, as well as a survey of actual vehicle loading. All road designs
carried out under the project will take into account the recommendations from the MSRP
Environmental Assessment Study (Annex 410).
3.    All works, including reconstruction and rehabilitation, will be to the standards of
FHD design manual, modified for rehabilitation projects to lower standards, as applicable, as
follows:
(a)    Cross Secins
(i)    Carriage way width   =    6.70 - 7.30m
(ii)   Shoulder width     =      1.50m each
Overall road width    =   9.70 - 10.30m
(b)    New pipe culverts: uLamum diameter of 900mm.
(c)    Existing culverts to be extended in their present form.
(d)    Where soil is subject to erosion, a paved side ditch will be incorporated, as
well as other measures indicated by the environmental assessment to prevent
erosion.
(e)    Low lying sections of road will be raised as necessary with selected fil
materials.



- 50 -
Ann4-1
Page 2 of 2
(f)    Sub-base and base course will be of naturally occurring material, where
appropriate.
(g)   Double bituminous surface treament will be applied where technically and
economically justified.
(h)   Where a reasonable length of existing pavement Is in good condition only
single bituminous surface treament will be required.



- 51 -
Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 4
Tentative List of Vehicles. Equipmept. Parts and Supplies to be pro :
Oyo stat,e      Osun Stte
SMOWT   FRSC  SMOWT  FRSC   Total
A. Vehicles
Station Wagons                    8      5          6      4      23
Pick-up Vans                     10                 8             18
Saloon Cars                       5                 3              8
Ambulances                                3                 2      5
Motorbikes                       25       8        16       7     56
Bicycles                         90                90            180
B. Light jiRment. for
Rehabilitation of Gravel
TipperTrudc                       4                 4              8
Tractor                          12                12             24
Trailer                          24                24             48
Vibrating Pedestrian roller       8                 8             16
Roller Tractor-drawn (8t)         4                 4              8
WaterTankTrailer (2m)             4                 4              8
Water pump (portable, 75mm)       4                 4              8
Power saw                         4                 4              8
Pick-up                           4                 4              8
Fuel Trailer (3,0001)             4                 4              8
Motorbike (1800 cc)               8               8               16
Bicycle                          16               16              32
Puley block and rope              8               8               8
Site tools (set)                  4               4               4
C. Othe
Lab and Field Testing Equip.
Office Equipment
Traffic Counfing Equipment
Mobile Axle Load Measuing
Equipment
Surveying Equipment
Design Office Equipment



- 52 -                                 Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 4
Hand Too Rgffd=" for Forme Amntou Rod and Ewmere terc
Hiand Tool              Unit Cost        Reqzdam   forforc              Cost
(N             acownt rou*w and               ()
em.rioi  mantenww
Stt              _ ____
Cuta                               130                   400                    52,000
Mattock                            90                     60                     5,400
Shovel                             180                   300                    54,000
Spade                              150                   1S0                    22,500
Rake/Spreadr                       100                   300                    30,000
Eand Rammer                        250                   100                    25,000
Pickaxe                            240                   200                    48,000
Axe                                200                    60                    12,000
Headpan                            130                   300                    39,000
Sledgehammer                       140                    10                     1,400
Watering can                        70
Crowbar                            500                    10                    5,000
Bucket                              60
Wheelbarow                         700                   100                    70,000
Bowsaw                             400                    20                     8,000
Power Saw                        8,000                     6                    48,000
Manual bitumen sprayer           5,000                     6                   30,000
30m tape                         1,000                     6                     6,000
3m tape                            60                     12                      720
Spirit level                       300                    12                     3,600
Ranging Rod                        150                    30                     4,500
Line level                         200
Masonry level                      S00                     6                     3,000
Tool handles                                                                    30,000
Bicycle                          2,500                    90                   225,000
Total         i81: :
Requirementfor  1993/94 (100%)     N681,800
*  1995  (50%)'         N189,400
*  1996  (30%)          N113,600
*  1997  (20%)*         N 75,800      N1.060.700 USS55.000)
IThe peroenage sae emmuding the coa of biycles and power ws hib would not be teplae during he project
Needs of on a  stm   dat 40% of abveor N424A300 (r2J0r 0



- 53 -
Annex 4-2
Page 3 of 4
Hand Tool              UnR cost         Reqadmat for              cost
(N          rouu  maaintawe             (A)
_________________________   _ ______________    Lu ining pe r     St tem
Cutlass                            130                 50                 6,500
Mattock                            90                  15                  1,350
Shovel                             180                 50                 9,000
Spade                              150                 10                  1,500
RaWSprdae                          100                 so                 5,000
Hand Rammer                        250                20                  5,000
Pickaxe                            240                 s0                 12,000
Axe                                200
Headpan                            130                 50                 6,500
Sledgebammer                       140                 10                 1,400
Wateg ca                           70 
Crowbar                            500                 S                  2,500
Bucket                              60
Wheelbaro w                        700                 30                 21,000
BOwsaw                             400
Power Saw                        8,000
Manual biumen sprayer            5,000    .                        _
30m tape                         1,000          _____
3mtap                              60_p
Spirit level                       300
Ranging Rod                        1SO
Line level                         200
Masony lee                         SW00
Tool handles                                                              12,000
Bicycle                          2,500                 10                 25,000
Total             N108,75D
- $5,725
Total toolk for 2 M*Uina sacdions Sii45



54 -                    ~~~~~Annex 4-2
Page 4 of 4
Hand Tool RC Gulrerm for Earth Road ReHbi Aon Trining
Hand Tool               Unr Cost         Requirements for           Cost
(N)         training on lOkm eath        (N)
road rehab. sect.
Cutlass                             130                 100                 13,000
Matto0c 90                                              100                  9,000
Shovel                              180                 150                 27,000
Spade                               150                 60                   9,000
Rake/Spreader                       100                 40                   4,000
Hand Rammer                         250                 40                  10,000
Pickaxe                             240                 80                  19,200
Axe                                 200                  S                   1,000
Headpan                             130                 80                  10,400
Sledgehammer                        140                 12                   1,680
Watering can                         70                 30                   2,100
Crowbar                             500                  10                  5,000
Bucket                               60                  10                   600
Whelbaow                            700                 40                   2,800
Bowsaw .                            400                  4                   1,600
Power Saw                         8,000                  1                   8,000
Manual bitumen sprayer
30m tape                          1,000                  6                   6,000
3m tape                             60                  12                    720
Spirit level                        300                 10                   3,000
Ranging Rod                         150                 15                   2,250
Line level                          200                  6                   1,200
Masonry level                       S00                  2                   1,000
Tool bandles                                                                15,000
Bicycle                           2,500                 20                  50,000
N203,5S0
= $10,700
Totl tooks for 2 tr& a sedions S21.400



- 55 -
Annex 4-3
Page 1 of 10
liEDERAL RIEPUBLIC OF MGEL
NMULTISIA ROADS PROJECr II
STATE ROAN MAUEN  CONSAKY
(State Technical Asshtance Consultants)
Draft Ternu of Rebrenoe
Obiecties
1.    The main objectives of the technical assistance are to:
(a)   assist in carrying out the planned strengthening of State Ministry of Works
(SMOW) roads organization;
(b)   ensure efficient and cost-e£fective management of road maintance,
rehabilitation, construction, upgrading and planning activities;
(c)   train managers, engineers and tedhnicians to carry out their various fimctions,
with the objective that all road and equipment management and operating
fuctions can be carried out independently by SMOW; and
(d)   in collaboration with a suitable institution in the state, establish a Technology
Transfer Center for dissemination of information, facilitation of technology
transfer from more developed countries to Nigera, and providing training
materials.
2.    The State Technical Assistance Consultants (STAC) will assist and advise SMOWs in
implementing the road program under MRSP II. In particular, the following tasks will be
carried out:
(a)   assist the SMOWs in planning the execudon and the monitoring of field
operations for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of roads;
(b)    assist in planning, implementing and monitoring road mai ace by labor
intensive and light equipment assisted methods;
(c)   train selected domestic contractors in labor intensive and light equipment
assisted construction methods;
(d)    assist SMOWs in preparing Warterly and annual estimates of local budget
requirements for implementing the roads program;
(e)    assist in setting up the statements of completed road works for paymeats from
the Project and Special Accounts;



- 56 -
Page 2 of 10
(t)   assist the SMOWs by cauying out perodic field inspection of the roads
program;
(g)   aist in the project's procmen of works, services and goods (e.g.
equipment, vehicles, spare puts, bitum, fuel), including preparation of
bidding docmet ad subsequet bid euations;
(h)   eansur      the prper projet  oung  and Wuditing practices are followed
at field uni and hadqu s for road works, equipment and mainenace,
and related activities;
(i)    computrz the road m mem information system, including financial,
cost acaunt  and monitori  functions;
0)    provide and monitor on-the-job taning to managerial, office and field
personel of SMOWs Qioadquaters and field units);
(k)   provide technical and instiutional support to LGCs as agreed with SMOWs;
)    provitd guidanM  to SMOWs in selecting tinees, training maeial and
couses to be attended by stat1;
(m)   set-up and implement a system for monDring and reporting developmental
Impacts of the MSRP using suitable indicators;
(n)   prepae quaedy progress reports and a project completion reprt at the end
of the project; and
(o)   identify local university or other nsitution witable for setting up the
Technology Trnsf Center; work out the resource requirements and
modaities for making the Ceoter fuctional; and faciitate its operation.
3. Ihe technical assistance team will consist of,
(a)    project manager and team leader (36 mondhs);
(b)    a fInancial and accout  eert (36 months);
(c)    hihway plaer (24 moths);
(d)   materals specialist (24 months);
(e)   labor based  nuction and ontactor development epet (36 months);
(t)    management informatin systems spciist (24 months); and
(g)   short-tem visits by speaist (m          total).



- 57 -                         AnneAx 43
Page 3 of 10
Trainig Specialist
Pwurement Specialist
Environmental Engineer
Tne technial assitance team will be enaed full time for three years with periodic visits
over two years to monitor implementation of program and to run upgrading courses.
4. Particular functions and qualifications of the technical assistance team are described
below:
A. Projfect Ma=e and Tem Leader
The Team leader will assist and advise the Director General and/or the Director of Civil
Engineering of SMOWs. In particular, he will:
(a)    coordinate and manage all acdvities of the technical assistance;
b)    update quarterly, and as required, the state roads program and supervise its
implementation;
(c)    analyze the cost and performance data of the road contractors every three
months and make recommendations to improve their performance;
(d)    prepare manuals of standard procedures for road design and works
supervision, and provide on the job training to SMOW engineers and
suprvirs;
(e)    carry out at least on a quarterly basis field inspections to verify the accuracy
of the works reporting;
(f)   scrutinize and countersign the work accomplishment statements prepared for
the payment of contractors from the Project and Special Account;
(g)    assist with and monitor the procurement and utilization of goods and services
for all components of the MSRP;
(h)    develop and implement training programs and provisions for on-the-job
taining of SMOW staff and counterparts;
(i)    prepawe quarterly progress reports reviewing accomplishments, presenting
project statistcal data, progress in transferring sils to counarts, genera
oudook for followig quarter and important project schedule revisions;
including provision of other data required by SMOW, the World Bank and co-
financiers;
O)    assist the implementing agencies in meeting all credit and/or loan agreement
obligations and covenants;



- 58 -
Annex.
Page 4 of 10
(k)    assist In the planning, design, construction and monitoring of the state roads
program;
OI)    participate in the state transportation planning activities;
(m)   install and operate a system for monitoring achievement of project objectives
and developmental impacts;
(n)   submit a final report summarizing the accomplishments with all relevant data
in accordance with SMOWs and Bank requirements;
(o)    by the end of the initia three-year period, prepare in consultation with the
relevant counterparts detailed procedures for effective takeover of the above
activities, and assist other team members in preparing detailed procedures for
their counterparts; and
(p)    be responsible for setting up the Technology Transfer Center in the State.
5.    The expert should be a well qualified civil engineer with at least twenty years post-
qualification experience, out of which 10 years shall be in managing and supervising road
projects. He/she should have some experience in Sub-Sahara Africa. He/she should be fluent
in English.
B. FHnancialtAgc ting .Exirt
6.    The financial/accounting expert will be assigned to SMOWs and will:
(a)    Design and install a comprehensive project accounting system;
(b)    assist SMOWs in preparing monthly reconciliations of the Ptoject and Special
Accounts;
(c)    assist SMOWs in ensuring that all the required accounting documents are
prepared and processed, and make proposals to remedy any deficiencies;
(d)   if required, prepare inventory control procedures for SMOWs' divisions and
headquarters;
(e)    assist, as required, with the development of software for computerizing the
accountng functions, the inventory management and the cost and performance
accounting system;
(f)    assist SMOW in planning, programming and budgeting for recurrent and
capital expenditure;
(g)   train counterpart staff in the use of the project accounting system.
7.    The expert should have fill accounting qualifications and, at least 10 years of
accounting experience in managing multiple road construction and maintenace (or similar)
conas and must be able to set up accountng systems in the specific offices of SMOWs.



- 59 -
Page 5 of 10
C. igihway Planner
8.    The expert will be assigned the responsibility of planning and designing the
rehabilitation of existing roads and construction of all new road works included in the project.
He/she will:
(a)    evaluate current traffic patterns and growth rates;
(b)    plan, schedule and monitor all data collection, including traffic counts,
condition surveys, and axle load measurements and design work in the ofhce
and publish annual reports;
(c)    coordinate, review and evaluate data collected, formulate design criteria and
prepare multi-year road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance plans;
(d)    ensure that designs and documentation conform with approved criteria;
(e)    with assistance of local consultants, where applicable, prepare bills, cost
estimates, reports, bidding documents and other project documentation, and
participate in bid evaluation;
(t)   supervise and direct day-to-day technical performance, review and approve
designs, supervise preparation of all deliverables;
(g)    assist and advise the Team Leader on all technical matters as needed;
(h)   review all pavement alignment and drainage data;
(i)   take note of the high accident rates in Nigeria in discussing road works, and
ensure particular attention is given to enhancing road safety, including the
need to improve road aligmments, and arrange for conducting road safety
audits of all design and rehabilitation works;
fj)    provide on-the-job and programmed training to counterpart engineers and
technicians;
(k)    participate in the development of detailed work schedules;
Q)    ensure that economic analysis of all proposed investments is performed
satisfactorily; and
(m)   ensure that satisfactory environmental assessments are carried out f'r all road
projects and that recommendations of the mitigation plan are carried out.
9.    The highway planner should be a well qualified highway engineer with at least 10
years of experience in highway planning and design. He/she should be familiar with the
design and construction of highways, and have experience in the investigation and data
collection for highway planning, design, construction and maintenance. He/she should be
able to give on-the-job training to committed counterparts, and should have adequate
knowledge of computers. He/she should be fluent in English.



- 60 -
Anum4-
Page 6 of 10
D. Materialpeel
10.   The eoxpt will be assigned the responsibility of evaluating all matial Investigation,
testing, usage and quality control. The materials specialist's tsk will include the following;
(a)   inspect sites for verification of site information;
(b)    prepare quality control tests and plans for all road works under the project and
advise SMOW, supervise consultants and contractors accordingly;
(c)    develop matenals/geotew ical investigation and tesig plan;
(d)    direct materis/geotechnical field investigation to confirm materials
information;
(e)    carry out reconnaissance of quarries for selection of materias, sampling, test
pits and testing;
(f)   select materi sources, estimate deposits, haulage costs and oversee the
testng and approval of material;
(g)    approve materW and instlation standards for subgrade and pavement layers;
(h)   in the state of Osun, assist in the establihment of a materas laboratory to
enable SMOW to provide technical services for construction quality control
and field invesgations for planning and desig work, and
(I)   ttain counterpat staff in managing materials laboratory and monitoring quality
control on sites.
11.   The Materia Specialist should be a well qualified civil engineer with at least 10 years
of experience in geotechnical engineeing or soil mechanics. He/she shoud be familiar with
the design of regravelling, overlaying and resealing, and routine maintenance techniques for
biuminous and laterite roads. He/she should be able to give on-thejob training to committed
countepat. He/she should be fluent in English.
E. Labo  ase Cendon and Cactor Ibloment  slist
12. Under the project, labor-based methods wiUl be used for all routine road maintenance
works; labor-basedlight equipment supported methods will be used for periodic maintenance,
rehabilitation and spot improvements to earth roads. The Labor-based
Construction/Contraco Development Expert (LCCDE) would have responsibility for
asstig SMOW in planning and implementing all laborbed and light equipment supported
road works to be exicuted by conacos to be trained. Furtihmore, the LCCDE would
provie assistace to SMOW in making effective use of its gradually reduced labor force to
carry out road emergency and routne maintenance by force account.
13.   The LCCDE woud carry out his/her work under the overall direction and guidance of
the STAC team leader and in close collaboration with his/her c. These would
include the Assista Director of Maintenance, District and Superintendent Engineers. In



- 61 -
Annex
Page 7 of 10
addition, two selected enges would be trained by the LCCDE to gradually take over
responsibilities. Thes two eieers would, in advance of project commencement, have
received Itrductory trainig under a UNDPIILO supported labor-based uiftastructure
progra exted by the National Diredorate of Employment (NDE) of the Federal Ministry
of Employment and Ptoductivity.
14.   It is sugges that LCCDE arange with the Federal Highways Department (PHD) in
the Federa Ministry of Works to agree with ILO on information sharing and support in PHD
in the area of labor-based/light equipet supported road construction and maintenmce
methods. Tbis may encompass without being limited to:
(a)   routine exchange of relevant information, data and special study findings;
(b)   ILO taining materW made available to SMOW and vice versa;
(c)    mutual participation in selected seminas and workshops organized by
SMOWs/STACs and ILO,
(d) SMOW staff and contractor short term participation in ILO special training
modules; and
(e)   as appropriate (NDE)IILO pardcipation in relevant parts of FHD/FEDTAC-
SMOW/STAC coordination meeting.
15. In greater detail, the LCCDE, in close collaboration with his/her counterparts, shall:
(a)    armnge for introductory visits to NDE/ILO work sites and trning activities;
subsequendy, if feasible, agree on and implement short term specialized
taining for SMOW staff and contaors at NDEAILO training sites;
(O)   review with NDE/LO possibilities for contctors trained under the NnElILO
program to execute works under the muldistate roads project;
(c)   elaborate training materials suitable for taining of various categories of
SMOW staff, domestic conrs and consultants. As appropriate, the
training mateial, to be consolidted into traing manuals, could be based on
materal produced under the NDE/LO program. Furthermore, the
PHD/PEDTAC wold provide coordination between the various SMOWs to
avoid duplication of eforts;
(d)    asist SMOW and local consultants in design of works to be carried out by
labor-based methods;
(e)   assist SMOW in edl ng bidd    documents suitable for:
(i)   routne road m      d  work;
(h)   pero   maintenance of earth roads; ad
(Cii) rehabilitation and spot Improvemets of earth roads;



- 62 -
Annex 43
Page 8 of 10
(f)    assist SMOW and consultants in supervising labor-based/light equipment
supported) works by contract. Elaborate supervision procedures in a short
manual (this to be coordinated by FHD/FEDTAC);
(g)   establish contact with the Kissi Training Centre in Kenya and affange for
SMOW staff to participate in the training;
(h)    assist, as appropriate, in the systematic planning of maintenance and
rehabilitation activities including those emergency and routine maintenance
activities to be carried out by force account with a gradually decreasing
SMOW labor force;
(i)   train at least two trainers who would gr. Jually take over responsibility for
training from the LCCDE, and at the LCCDE's departure be filly capable of
undertaking continued future training;
(i)    contribute to the elaboration of the following SMOW/STAC reports:
(i)   inception report to be issued six weeks after commencemeat of
consultants services;
(ii)   quarterly progress reports;
(iii)  special reports as warranted; a'sd
(iv)   terminal training report summarizing experiences other than those
included in manuals.
16.   The LCCDE will train his/her counterparts and oversee the training being carried out
by others. The LCCDE shall gradually and systematically transfer know-how and
responsibility for his/her assignments to the counterparts and others as appropriate. Capacity
building is a prime objective of the project and will be closely monitored and reported on. In
case of inefficiencies or delays being observed corrective action must be taken.
17.   The LCCDE should be a well qualified civil engineer with at least 10 years relevant
post-graduate experience to a large extent acquired in developing countries, preferably
including Sub-Saharan Africa. Hetshe should be experienced in planning, design and
execution of low cost roads where labor-based methods are used. In particular, the LCCDE
should have substantial experience in providing training to engineers and technicians in
applying these methods. He/she should be fluent in English.
F. J    &namement Information Systems Soedalist
18.   The expert will be assigned the responsibility of developing a management
information system to automate road management accounting and tracking:
(a)    computerize the road management reportng system and choose and install
appropriate software for the MIS;



- 63 -
Page 9 of 10
(b)   establish a system for synthesizing and updating data on road network
inventory and condition;
(c)    create a database to collect financial information and assist financial expert in
design and implementation of the project accounting system;
(d)    assist SMOW in selection of computer hardware and software for MIS
application, install the appropriate systems and train counterparts and SMOW
staff;
(e)    develop monitormg and scheduling systems to give up-to-ate information on
each contract, contractor, consultant and on physical progress;
(t)   install and operate an appropriate system for monitoring developmental
impacts and skills transfer achievement; and
(g)    mount basic training courses for selected SMOW staff.
19.   Ihe expert shoulld have 15 years experience in management information system
development and database management systems, and have a degree in MIS or computer
science. Candidate should have full knowledge of word processors, spreadsheets and common
applications programs and have the ability and experience in training others.
Short-Term Visits by $Secalists
20.   These experts will spent a total of 8 man-months.
(a)    Trainings Speiali. Assist in the instittional development. Develop a
management training program to train managers in: planning, programming
and budgeting for recurrent and capital expenditures, procurement,
supervision, quality control and contract management, organization and
monitoring of programmed maintenance by contract, and financial accounting
and control. Assist in training management in monitoring developmental
impacts of infrastructure investment.
lTe Training Specialist should be an engineer with 15 years of experience in
the management of capital projects, preferably roads, with experience in
financial accounting, project management, and development monitoring.
(b)    Procurement Specialiat. Assist in the project's procurement of works,
services and goods (e.g. equipment, vehicles, spare parts, bitumen, fuel),
including preparation of bidding documents and subsequent bid evaluations.
The Procurement Specialist should have 15 years' experience in capital
procurement and contract administration, and be familiar with the
development of ICB and LCB documents under World Bank guidelines.
(c)    Environmenal Egin. Assist in building capacity for environmental impact
assessment of roads. Assist in and train SMOW staff to determine if the roads
are passing through any sensitive area which would pose serious



- 64 -
&=@X 4-3
Page 10 of 10
envronmentl concer. Detrmine If there are any rlocations expecd to
result ftom the contuction of these roads. Work with  e Eironme
mpact Commission or withe Envronmentl Impact Assment Unit to
prepare an  viromea Impat Asesnt report.
The Enironmental Engineer should have 15 years erience In the
development of e  enl impact studies, preferably those relaWt to road
construction and land development.
21.   Deliverables:
Management tining report
Istitutional development report
Tender douments
Database: software and opeting manuals
Geotechnical laboratory: opating procedures manual, tests, traiing report
Monthly reports on design progress
Materia availability reports
Construction cost esmates and bill of quanties.
Transfer of sldlls and know-how to LIcal Stan
22.   Consultants we required to progressively transfer skldls, know-how and
responsibilities to their local counteparts. Development of and agreement with the client of a
detailed program for achieving this transfer of skills and know-how is very esental. The
extent to which such a transfr is atually effected wil be taken into accoun in the evuation
o consultant's performance.



- 65 -
Annex 44
Page 1 of 6
FERA REPIBLIC OF NIGEIU
swim NE MULIStm RO A II
NManwe Rrftvegmet and Training
1.    Tne ability of SMOWs to plan and implemnit effectve road  gnteac and
rboilitation has traditionally been very weak:. lti has often been due to a variety of fiwcors
such as insufficient operating budgets, excess nmnbars of marginally qualified staff, lack of
tools and equipment, and poor nuageen of available resources. While sometia
recognizing these institutional consrits, ShlOWs have been ineffectve ill improving dhidr
cawt to maintain the state road networks with the result tbat many state road systms are
daeiorating at a faster rate tha they ar being naingned. Now, after seveal decaes of
poor maaeetand widespread road deterioration, bot the Federi and State Govanent
wfe rewpgizing the need to make drastic changes in the way they carry out road maneance
opertons. After an extensive review of various altenative strategies, it has been decided to
transfer the major portion of road nmahtence worksa from force account operains curied
out by the SMOWs to private contacwtos. To this and, SMOW staff in the dime pilot states
.w;l overme works carred out by local contactors. By being telieved from the nmaagement
of force accaunt opeaSons, the SMOWs wil be able tD concenae on ptuningy, design, and
s*vision of contacts, while the conlEtoals will be able to ca¢y out dbir responsibilities
wihout the typical bureaucratic constai  tfat had prmvously plagued the SMOWs.
2. Due. to the natur of the ptoposed road maintence program, manpower development
will take on a limited role in 1hat (i) only small nmes of SMOW persnnel will require
ftWan  in contrac manaement, and (ii) conutrcors wHil be motivate to acquire nwcesa
skill by competitive means within the labor market. Ihis does not preclude, however, the
need to provide a firum for Govermnen agencies and the costmtion industry to exchane
ideas, educate the work-force, and provide general channels of cmuiaonbetween all
parties in the sectr. To addres fth need, the Goveomiet wishes to contne and expand
Xhe use of Technlogy Transfer Centers initate under the ongoing Highway Sector Loan (see
Annex c43). In order to achieve these objectives, the project will financ thie following
activities:
(a)    Tmaioing fr SUMO   and FMWH Staff, Selected senior and mid-level SMOW
staff from the pilot state and from FMWH will have need to attend various
intrnioalworkshops, _sem, confereces and/or study tour during the
project implementaton period. Participation in this component wt-. be
effected according to an anmual traning plan to be prepwed in advance by
twaBh SMOW and submited to the Bank for review and nona-bjecsion prio tD
implmenetio. Tne training plan will identify:



- 66 -
Ann"e 
Page 2 of 6
(i)   each participant including job title, and length of service;
(ii)   the training venue, including the purpose and/or training topics, and
the duration of training; and
(iii)   a breakdown of travel, tuition, and living costs.
The purpose of the above training plan is to establish a standard and
acceptable procedure for manpower development that will maximize the use of
available funds, and minimize ad hoc participation without proper planning.
The foreign exchange available for this component is to be accounted for on
an actual cost basis and is not to be used to pay Government Estacode
allowances. In conformity with the Bank's Articles concerning payment for
actual costs, while at the same time recognizing the Estacode requirements,
the project will finance only actual costs of travel, tuition and living expenses,
with any difference between actual costs and Estacode allowances being paid
by Government from other sources.
(b)                            Instom Designed Core.ternational organizations, such as the
International Roads Federation RpF, and other teaching institutions abroad,
over the years, have produced a great deal of training materia' related to
maintenance and rehabilitation of roads. They -lso have programs for
conducting customized training courses in host countries and abroad. Ihese
courses could also be conducted for training of trainers. lhe participating
SMOWs and FMWH could avail themselves of these training courses and
materials under the project. Where feasible, the training will include
attachments to Road Authorities, Construction Firms and Materials testing
facilities.
(c)    Technology  aMfe Centers JI.O. Under the ongoing Highway Sector
Loan, contacts were established between FMWH and the National Highway
Institute (NHI) of the U.S. Federal Highway Administration (FHA). NHI
operates a network of technology transfer centers (called T-Square Centers)
throughout the United States and has extensive experience in the dissemination
of road sector information. With the objective of setting up similar types of
centers in Nigeria, the Government decided to establish a Technology Transfer
Center within FMWH which would then form the basis for establishing
similar centers at the state level. Under the proposed MSRP, work begun
under the Highway Sector Loan will be intensified to provide capacity at the
state level to meet the technology needs of SMOWs and the construction
industry. In this regard, the project will finance:
(i)   local costs and the provision of facilities to administer the extension
program to the two states;
(ii)   the cost of purchasing andlor reproducing the various software and
training materials to be provided by NHI and other sources;



- 67 -
Annex 44
Page 3 of 6
(iii) local costs to conduct seminars and workshops for SMOW personnel
and contractors over a five-year period; and
(iv) the costs of training local environmental specialists in assessing
environmental impacts of road projects (One from FMWH, and one
each from Oyo and Osun SMOW).
In order to implement the above program, FMWH and the SMOWs will
prepare a plan for staffing and provision of facilities for the Technology
Transfer Centers to be ready for Bank review by the time of project
effectiveness. The plan will follow the staffing guidelines already established
under the Highway Sector Loan (see Annex 43) and is to include a
description of facilities and equipment required along with a proposed annual
budget for each of the eight years of project implementation. In addition, the
plan will indicate the training requirements of SMOW personnel and the
proposed activities of the Centers (i.e. workshops, seminars, production of
materials, etc.).
Cost Estimates (Per State):                        Equivalent US$ (million)
LTal         Foreign
(a) Training SMOW and FMWH staff
including seminars, study tours      0.05           0.60          0.65
(b) Custom Designed Courses and
practical attachment                 0.05           0.20          0.25
(c) TTC
(i) Facilities
(ii) Software & train. materials
(iii) Seminars & workshops                       QI20
Total                Q.L0                         1.25



- 68 -
Page 4 of 6
FEDEBALLRMU QIUM
SEOND MULTSall ROADS PRC)1
TeOnoogIm lhnsfe Coda
1.    The concept of establishing technology transfer cete  througout Africa was
endorsed at thie I18th World Road Congress sporsored by the Parmalnot lnwnational
A&ciation of Road Congresse (plARC) during their meeting in Brussels in 1987.
Establi-shing centers in Nigeria would be the firs step in reaching the PUMRC goaL Ibo long
range goal is to establish an Africa Technology Tramfer Cente suPPorted by reneXe cen
provided widiin each country. Ultimatey Nigeria, due to its pionefla jntafve, would
Become the nucleus for the technology transfer progrm wkhin the continent of AfricL
2.    in essence, technology transfer addresses nlot only technical sMdl but als muuuuril
and supervision aspects as relevant and appropriate to the Nigerian cotet Ihis consulta
service will be provided to the FHD under the Highway Sector Loan.
Canaftm Assignment
3.    The main objective of this part of the consultncy assignment is to assist the Federal
Higways Department (E7HD) to establish a network of Technology Tranfer Cenlters (ITC-s)
modeled after similar centers successfilly established in mnore developed counuies. Ihe main
-YTC, which could be established in Lagos directly under PHD, would include direc lWp
with a major ITC center abroad, such as the United Staem Federal Highway Adm;'imto
IWA). T.his linkage would include access to several hunde miin wounss taninig
films, student textbooks, and user mamals. PHD will have the capability of sending
instructors to the United States National Highway Insdbtue (NHI) for the putpose of taking the
training and then transferrng the. entire training course to Nigeria. Ilastuctors would be
Nigerian highway engineers from FHD, if available, or hired engineers. Alteratvely,
engineers from the Unitd States or elsewhere may come to Nigeria to provide the wtrann.
4.    In addition to increasing mhe technical abllities of PHD, mhe technology is to be shared
by the Highways officias in the Nigerian States. At first, diree pilot state highway TTCs,
will be established as part of mhe MSRP. The initial stat cear will be served by die
primary 1X operafti within the F}ID. Ibe pfimay center will provide services to the
FHD field offices.
S.    The objectives of the Nigerian TIC system are to:
*     Establish a mechanism for transferring highway technology *nom the Undt
Stes and other counties to Niger!an usportaton officis.
OEncourage the use of innovative, cost-effeettiv technoogy within NigetiaL



- 69 -
Pago 5 of 6
*     Provide lines to receivo bchology from tranfer syems oprati  in
other parts of the world (such as Pan American lnstituto of Highways, Canada
and China).
*     Demonstae new technology so that it can be quickly used wifthin Nigeria.
*     DZetermine highway training needs whin Nigeria and provid traning to PHD
and State employees.
*     Synthesize the succsful application of new technology in one center so that it
can be used by other centers.
*     Establish a ?IC within the FHD. The minimum stafing should include one
full-time experienced engineer (center director), one fil-time secretary and
two well-trained highway techncia.
*     Estblish two pilot TTCs in the States pardcipatig in the MSRM: ligawa and
Kano. The minimum stfing should include one ful-tm  expedence
engineer (center diror) and a full-time secretay. in addiion to operatg
the center, this staff will also be available to assist the MSRP State
Coordinator.
*     New TIC center dieor  all be provided traing (one month) in the NH!
of the U.S. FHWA and selected state highway d     in the U.S.
*     The taiinng currey provided by the FHD maintenance training cees at
Badgy, Kaduna and Ugnekl is crtical to the mannan  of Nigan
highways and to the success of the MSRP. The himediate task of the
Nigerian TMs should be to provide high quality traning materias and visual
aids to the 1,200 students trained each year.
*     Locate and distribute technical data and iformation throughout Nigeria.
*     Publish quarterly a newslette nrming federal and state tnoraon
officials of new and existing technology available to Nigeria.
*     Maintain mailing lists of transporton officials.
*     Conduct at least six seminars each year.
*     Provide tcnology trnsfr materials.
*     Perform a yearly self-euation and prepare annual report.
*     Complete technical development and demonstratIon projects.
*     Provide technological and training support to ensure that road projects do not
cause unnecay envonmentl or social damage, and support the
implementaion of enviro    impact    _       of road projects.



- 70 -
Annex 4-4
Page 6 of 6
*     Establish a IfC advisory comnittee.
llmetable
6.    The timn for implementing the TlCs will be as follows:
(1)    Signature of Consultancy Contract, Month 00.
(2)    Outline plan of action for TrCs, Months 00-04.
(3)    Establish TICs, give technical support and complete all training under TICs,
Months 05-14.
(4)   Evaluate TICs and develop policy for long-term sustainability, Months 15-22.
(5)   Produce Draft Final Report, Month 23.
(6)   Produce Final Report, Month 24.
'mdlrX
7.    The following reports will be produced for FMWH and World Bank information.
The World Bank will be supplied with four copies.
(a)    An Inception Report three months after contract signature and Progress
Reports at three-month intervals commencing at Month 06; and
(b)   A Final Report describing the TrC InfWomation system and training
conducted.



_ 71 -
Page 1 of 4
FEDEtLRE,IEPUB=<I OFWGERI
SECONDM= llOADS I RS 
Draft Terms of Referenc for 1rWeet Oversigbt
(Feddrl Technical Coordinadon Assistance)
1.    A Nadonal State Roads Program (NSRP) is being considered for fimding by the
World Bank and other lending institutions. The funds will be used to upgrade, rehabilitate
and maintain state road systems. The First Multistate Roads Project (MSRP) is the initial
phase of the NSRP. The Federal Mmistry of Workm and Housing (FMWH) has agreed to act
as the Apex Agency for the MSRP. This terms of reference covers the functions of a Federal
Technical Assistance Coordinator( FEDTAC) for the project. The FEDTAC is to help the
FMWH provide assistance in coordination and an independent assessment of the
implementation of the MSRP.
2.    Two states were selected to participate in phase I of the MSRP (Kano and Jigawa),
and another two in Phase II (Oyo and Osun). Each ste will hire a State Teonical
Assistance Consultant (STAC) to help them carry out their project. Each STAC will help
their state contract and supervise the road upgrading, rehabilitation and matenance program
funded urder the MSRP. Also, the STACs will train counterparts to do the same functions in
the future. The FEDTAC will help the FMWH monitor and evaluate the performance of all
MSRP participants. This includes each State, each State's STAC and the contractors hired by
each state to do the work.
3.     Other stes will be added in the future. The PEDTAC will continue to help the
MSRP as additional states are added to the Project. Further, the FEDTAC will help the
MSRP identify future NSRP states.
Objecthe
4.    The FMWH is the Apex Agency for the MSRP. The consultant hired as the
FMWH's FEDTAC will help the FMWH objectively monitor and evaluate the effectiveness
of the participating states in the MSRP. This oversight function is being undertaken to allow
timely improvements and corrections to the project This process is directed toward
enhancing the success of the MSRP.
So  of Work
5.    The FEDTAC is principally an advisor to the FMWH. Ihe work comprises:
(a)    Visiting each participating state at periodic intervals and collecfting infomaton
to use in evaluating the performance of the State, the STAC and the
contractors.



- 72 -
MMea 4-5
Page 2 of 4
(b)    Advising tho PMWR on the progres and achievements realized in each state
and helping the FMWH Identi other states to include in future phases of the
projec.
(e)    Preparing reports to document their assessments with reco ns for
Improving the MSRP implementatin proce.
6.    Monthly, the FEPrAC is to visit each State participaing in the MSRP. These are to
be random visits. The state, STAC and contractors are to cooperate with the FEDTAC and
make available, for examination, any information requwed by the FEDTAC.
(a)    The FEDTAC should provide each state with a list of the types of informadon
ihat wfll be sougt durig each vist This list should be mede available to the
stae bdere the FEDTAC's first visit.  he list should be annotated as needed
durng the project. Revised lists should be forwarded to states at intervals.
(b)   The FEDTAC should meet with the STACs and determine how efecvdy the
STACs are doing their tas. He should judge the overi caliber and
pfomance of each STAC's staff member. Included in the review wil be an
assessment of the following STAC activities:
-     Supvsing construction work and checking work progress.
-     Monhorn the quality and conformance of mat s
to spcficatons by ordering and evaluating appropriate tests ad
results.
-     Insuring contractors comply with safety guidelines
and directg contractors through SMOW to carry out measure
needed tn insure safety.
-       OAssistng the State plan, execute and monitor routine and periodic
-     Helping the State MOW to budget road progranus to ensure th
adequate funding is included in the State's budget each year.
-     Guiding the State obtain works, services, and prepare bid doc _nnts.
-     Monitoring and approving accounting and auditng acivites.
-     Assesdsng progress on the comptiz  of road manaement
Inomtion.
Training countepart personnDel.
Pwovidin tehical assistance to LGCs as needed.



- 73 -
Annex4
Page 3 of 4
Maintining a Daily diary of events relevant to contracts.
Vetting of submitted as built drawings from the contractors.
Ensuring sound enviromental procedures are being applied.
Preparing monthly progress reports for the State which will include
minutes of site meetings with the Contractors.
(c)    During the monthly visits, the FEDTAC will examine road projects and assess
the contractores performance in:
-     Complying with consultant's reports on quality
and work completion.
-     Adheting to safety guidelines.
-     Removing and replacing unsuitable materials and work as directed by
the STAC and State.
(d)    During site visits, the FEDTAC should determine how timely the contractors
are being paid. If there are delays, the reasons for the delays should be
established and recommendations made for corrections.
(e)    During monthly visits, the FEDTAC will evaluate how effectvely the State's
c  pesonnel are adaptng to the techniques being provided under the
tehnology transfer fimction of the Consultants. This should be based on:
-     How well the STAC Is transferring the skills and knowledge identifled
in the STAC terms of reference to the local counterpart stff. This
includes examining the requirements for counterpart certification and
the progress made by counepart staff towards certification.
-     The adequacy of the STAC/Counterpart facilities, transportation and
budget
-     If individual counterpart staff members are capable of leaming and
perfming their designated job assignments without STAC assistance
in the futre.
-     if all countrparstaff positions are flled.
(t)    Review and endorse any proposed replacements or subsftiutions proposed by
the STAC for counterpart staff. Replacements will be required when
counterpat leave. Substttions will be necessary when current counterpart
staff prove incapable of performing their designated job assignments.



- 74 -
Annex 4-5
Page 4 of 4
7.    The FEDTAC is to work directy for and report to the FMWH's Deputy Director of
Federal Highways, Planning [DDFH(P)J. The FEDTAC should orally brief the DDFH(P)
weekly and cover:
(a)    His previous week's activities and his plans for coming weeks.
(b)    Critique and assessments of the State Ministries of Work and Transport
(SMOWs), the STACs and contractors as reflected in trip reports. Trip
reports are to form the basis for monthly progress reports.
(c)    The current monthly progress report contents as proposed by the FEDTAC.
(d)   Any activities of the FMWH that impact on the conduct of the MSRP.
8.    The FEDTAC is to prepare monthly progress reports covering his findings and
evaluations of the SMOWs, STACs and Contractors. Six copies of the report should be
delivered to the FMWH within one week of the end of each month. Also, two copies of the
report should be sent to each participating state. The contents of the monthly reports should
be summarized in quarterly progress reports. Twelve copies of this report are to be delivered
to the FMWH. Two copies of the report are to be sent to each loan agency participating in
the MSRP.
9.    The FEDTAC may be required to the FMWH in ideutifying candidate states for an
expanding NSRP. The FEDTAC is to work with FMWH's Pavement Evaluation Unit (PEU)
in developing high priority rehabilitation prograns for candidate states.
10.   At six month intervals, the FEDTAC will arrange to present a seminar to a1l
participating states. The purpose of the seminar will be to review the progress being made on
the MSRP. Problems encountered will be identified and discussed. The success of proposed
solutions to problems reviewed. The objective will be to gain an exchange of ideas that can if
implemented increase the opportunity for success in the MSRP.
11.   The expert filling the FEDTAC role is to be a well quaiified highway engineer. Tbis
expert should have at least ten years post-Qualification experience. Also, the expert should
have five years of project managing and supervising experience. He should have sufficient
computer skills to use word processors and spreadsheet programs in preparing documents and
reports. Some experience in sub-Sahara Africa will be desirable.
12.   The PEDTAC should be able to handle up to four states concurrently. Once more
states become involved in the MSRP, the FEDTAC should have assistance. Any assistant
should be a highway engineer with at least five years post qualification experience. He/she
should have some experience managing and supervising projects and be conversant with
computer use. Staffing for the FEDTAC function should be as follows:
a)    One to Four States ...............  FEDTAC &lassistat
b)    Four to eight States ............. 1 FEDTAC & 2 assistants
c)    Eight to twelve States ........... 1 FEDTAC & 3 assistants
d)    Twelve to sixteen States    1 FEDTAC & 4 assistants



Federat Repubfic of Nigeria
Oyo State Ministry of Works and Transport
Proposed Multistate Rd ProJ.II
Table 1. OYO STATE
etai ted Cost Table
Hafra
Totals Including Contingencies              Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Base Costs in USS                                           US$                                           USS
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total       1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMNET COSTS
A......i..........
A. CIVIL WRS
Upgrading                  0.00   1.18   2.53   2.53   2.53   1.77  10.54       0.00   1.36   3.03   3.15   3.27   2.37  13.18         8.56    4.31    0.30   13.18
New Construction           0.00   1.00   2.50   2.50   2.50   1.50  10.00       0.00   1.15   2.99   3.11   3.23   2.01  12.50         8.12    4.09    0.29   12.50
Rehabilitation             0.00   1.55   3.21   3.21   3.21   2.08  13.26       0.00   1.79   3.84   3.°9   4.14   2.79  16.56        10.76    5.41    0.38   16.56
Maint. by Contract         0.00   0.20   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.30   2.00       0.00   0.23   0.60   0.62   0.65   0.40   2.50         1.62    0.82    0.06    2.50
gravel Road Rehab.         0.00   0.30   0.75   0.75   0.75   0.45   3.00       0.00   0.35   0.90   0.93   0.97   0.60   3.75         2.44    1.23    0.09    3.75
Spot toprveent             0.00   0.06   0.14   0.14   0.14   0.07   0.55       0.00   0.07   0.17   0.17   0.18   0.09   0.69         0.45    0.22    0.02    0.69
.....  ...... ..... :.;... . ... ....... ......  ........ ......  ....... . ------  ------.. ------  ------.. ------  ------.. ------  -------. -------  -------.. ..---.-.---  . .. .......... .... _.  ...
St&-Total                   0.00   4.29   9.63   9.63   9.63   6.17  39.35       0.00   4.95  11.53  11.98  12.43   8.27  49.16        31.96   16.08    1.13   49.16
S. Vehicles 5 Equipments        0.00   0.40   1.60   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.00        0.00   0.46   1.92   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.38        1.90    0.12    0.36    2.38
C. rechnicsa (ssistence
Project Mangement          0.00   0.85   0.85   0.85   0.15   0.00   2.70       0.00   0.98   1.02   1.06   0.19   0.00   3.25         2.76    0.32    0.16    3.25
Osgfn, Engrg. & Slperv.   0.00   0.21   O.S2   0.52   0.52   0.31   2.10        0.00   0.24   0.63   0.65   0.68   0.42   2.62         2.23    0.26    0.13    2.62       -p
.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~  . . .   ...s
Sb-Tlotal                   0.00   1.06   1.37   1.37   0.67   0.31   4.80        0.00   1.22   1.65   1.71   0.87   0.42   5.87        4.99    0.59    0.29    5.87
0. Training                     0.00   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   1.00        0.00   0.23   0.t4   0.25   0.26   0.27   1.25        1.00    0.25    0.00    1.2S
... .. ...... ...... ...... ...... . . . . . .   . . . . . . ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......    ....... .. . .....  ....... .......
Tota   I0NVESTMENT COSTS           O.00   5.95  12.80  11.20  10.S0   6.68  47.15        0.00  6.86  15.34  13.94  13.S6   8.96  58.66        39.85   17.03    1.78   58.66
a*=== 2==X=U1 t====a= 3==== n===== 220CU2 vn===    0==-a= ==3-;= =s===Su #===3 3=3== at3=== ==3533    CS- === 5_= ==== 35=
Totat                           O OO   5.95  12.80  11.20  10.50   6.68  47.15        O.Q0  6.86  15.34  13.94  13.S6   8.96S  58.66       39.8S   17.03    1.78 S86
Vatues scaled by 1000000.0  10/2611992  0:50
0I 
4.5



federal Reputf4c of figeria
Osun State Ninistry of Uorks and Transport
Proposed Nuttfstate Rd Prol.Z'
Tabte 2. OS3 STATE
Petal ed Cost Table
Matra
Total8 Inctuding Contirngencies         Breakdown of Totals Inct.Cont.
Base Costs in US%                                      USS                                       uS$
1992  1993  1994  t995  1996  199T Total         1992  1993  1994  199S  1996  199? Totat    f.Excb  tocat  Taes  Totat
1. INVESTM   COSTS
..... ........ .
A. CIVIL UIS
Upgrading               0.00   !.4S   5.38  5.38  S.38  3.31 21.90        0.00  2.82   6.4   6.69  6.95  4.44  27.34       17.77   8.94   0.63  27.34
M Constructfon          0.00  O.3   0.87  0.67  0.87  0.52  3.49          0.00  0.40   1.OS  1.09  1.13  0.70  4.36         2.84   1.43   0.10   4.36
Rebabilitation          0.00  0.80   1.41   1.41   1.41   1.03  6.06      0.00  0.92   1.69   1.75  1.82  1.38  ?.ST        4.92   2.47   0.17   7.57
Nafit. by Contract      0.00  0.20  o.so  0.50  o.so  0.30  2.00          0.00  0.23  0.60  0.62  0.6S  0.40  2.50          1.62   0.82   0.06   2.50
Naterial Lab Buitding    0.00  0.06  0.14  0.14  0.14  0.09  0.58         0.00  0.07  0.17  0.18  0.19  0.12  0.72          0.47   0.24   0.02   0.72
Bravwl Road Rehab.      0.00  0.30  0.75  0.75  0.75  0.4S  3.00          0.00  0.35  0.90  0.93  0.97  0.60  3.75          2.4    1.23   0.09   3.7S
Spot Iqzrovement        0.00  0.06  0.14  0.14  0.14  0.07  0.55          0.00  0.07  0.17  0.17  0.18  0.09  0.69          0.4S   0.22   0.02   0.69
Sub-Totl                 0.00  4.22  9.20  9.20  9.20  s.7  37.58          0.00  4.86    .   11.44  11.88  7.73 46.93       30.51   15.31    1.08  46.93
S. Vehicles 9 Equipments     0.00  0.40  1.60  0.00  0.00  0.00  2.00          0.00  0.46   1.92  0.00  0.00  0.00  2.38         1.90   0.12   0.36   2.38
C. Technical Assistance
Project NMagement       0.00   1.00  1.00  1.00  0.30  0.00  3.30         0.00  1.15   1.20  1.24  0.39  0.00  3.98         3.38   0.40   0.20   3.98
sign, En£rg. & Superv.  0.00  0.20  0.51  0.51  0.51  0.31  2.04          0.00  0.24  0.61  0.63  0.66  0.41  2.55          2.17   0.25   0.13   2.55 
Sub-Total                0.00   1.20  1.51  1.51  0.81  0.31  5.34         0.00  1.39  1.81  1.88  1.OS  0.41  6.53          S.SS   0.65   0.33   6.53
0. Trainfng                  0.00  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  1.00          0.00  0.23  0.24  0.25  0.26  0.27  1.2S          1.00   0.25   0.00   1.2S
Total INVEStMENT COSTS          0.00  6.02  12.51  10.91  10.21  6.28 45.92      0.00  6.94  14.98 13.57 13.18  8.41 S7.09         38.96  16.37   1.76  57.09
83~UU*u3~ U==== ~~m uu~=  m--- an ==am=   sun=m 3333g ..ouu3.3g333  owns". ==us*= 0=0U.   uswasuB 3mU=z*a  ma===.  a
Totat                        0.00  6.02  12.51  10.91  10.21  6.7  45.92       0.00  6.94 14.98 13.17 13.18  8.41 57.09         38.96  16.37   1.76  57.09
- Values scaled by 100000.O 10/24/1992 23:16
0S
K.1
Nt



Fedawat flpMIc of SNiwea
Frwt NInItr of VW* an Nousing
P dqxmM  ulUtistate Ad Proj.Il
TeAl 3. FEDEUAL NInIsUT OF WmS & NOStI
Oet8Iled Cost Tble
laira
Totals Including ContinofncIes     Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Base Casts in US1 0S                                                    usS
1992 9397 Total    1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 Total    F.E=ch  Local  Taxes  Totat
1. INESTNT COSTS
................
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTACE   0.00 0.16 0.80    0.00 0.18 0.19 0.20 0.21 0.21 1.00        0.87   0.07   0.05   1.00
TRAINING             0.00 0.02 0.10    0.00 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.12         0.12   0.00   0.00   0.12
STUDES               0.00 0.22 1.10    0.00 0.25 0.26 0.27 0.28 0.29 1.37         1.12   0.18   0.07   1.37
..     ;  ...   .... .. ..... .     ...     . ....... ....   ...  .....     .....   .....   .... .
Su-Total              0.00 0.40 2.00    0.00 0.4  0.48 0.50 0.52 O.S4 2.49         2.12   0.26   0.12   2.49
Total INVESTENT COSTS       0.00 0.40 2.00    0.00 0.46 0.48 O.SO 0.52 0.54 2.49         2.12   0.26   0.12   2.49
n33332333=333    3m=333333  33333=233333  33333   3333333    322R=  3333X=3333
Total                     0.00 0.40 2.00    0.00 0.46 0.48 0.50 0.52 0.54 2.49         2.12   0.26   0.12   2.49
- Vals sca8led bV 1000000.0 10/26/1992 23:31
to
Ib 
as
o0.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF Nt6ERIA
PROPOSED MULTISTATE ROMDS PROJECT It
CONSOLIDATED:(OTO,OSUN & FNl)
Sury ACCUnts Cost 3Mry
MAIRA                                        uS                                    S Total
..      ........................             ........................... _                    - X   Foreign  Base
Local    Foreign          Total           Local  Foreign          Total        Exchange         Costs
1. IVESTPRNT COSTS
. ..................
A. CIVIL  ORS
1. 010 STATE                              247.90       460.39        708.30           13.7        25.58       39.35            65.00        41.38
2. OSCU  STATE                            236.82        439.80       676.62           13.16       24.43       37.s5            65.00        39.s3
Sub-Total                                     484.72        900.20    1384.92             26.93       50.01       76.94            65.00        80.92
S. VEHICLE & EWIPUENT
1. OtO STATE                                 7.20        28.80        36.00            0.40        1.60        2.00            80.00          2.10
2. o010   STATE                              7.20        28.80        36.00            0.40         1.60       2.00            80.00          2.10
..............................               ........................................................ *** ....................
Sib-Total                                       14.40        57.60        72.00            0.80        3.20        4.00            80.00          4.21
C. TECHNICAtL ASSISTANCE
1. 0O1  STATE                               12.96         3.44        86.40            o.72        4.08        4.80            85.00         5.05
2. CJI  STATE                               14.42        81.70        96.12             0.80       4.5S4       5.34            85.00          5.62
3. FED.N1 N.OF WOWRS & HWJSE.                5.41        30.68        36.09            0.30         1.70       2.00            85.00          2.11
,................................................ ...........................    ....................................... ..........
Sib-Total                                       32.79       185.82       218.61             1.82      10.32       12.14            85.00         12.77                        
D. TRAINING
1. 010 STATE                                 3.60        14.40        18.00            0.20        0.80        1.00            80.00          1.05
2. oSuN STATE                                3.60        14.40        18.00            0.20        0.80         1.00           80.00          1.05
....................................................,* ...........................    ....................................... ..........
Sib-Total                                        7.20        28.80        36.00            0.40         1.60       2.00            80.00          2.10
Totat BASELINE COSTS                          539.11    1172.42    1711.53                29.95       65.13       95.06            68.50       100.00
Physical contingencIes                      53.91       117.24       171.15            3.00        6.51        9.51            68.50         10.00
Prle  Contifnencies                      671.41    1436.33    2107.74                 4.37        9.28       13.66            67.97         14.36
................... i;...  ..       --       ........................................... .........  ....................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                         1264.4       2 5.9         3i0.43            37.32       80.93    118.25              68.44       124.36
... ... --^---***------**-*** ............................................................. *.................. @X**
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  -                       s101-91992   3:04
00
IPdt
0 1
6   (Z.



- 79 -
AMQ 4-7
Page  of 4
EERAL IEPBBLIC OF NWEA
,SECOND NMUTIrATl Ro -A  SERQllK
Technical ssistance for Supervlsion of Road Work Cntat
Draft Terms of Rfrn
Badlqoud
1.    Ihe Government of Nigeria has applied to the World Bank for a loan. A portion of
the loan will be used by the SMOWT for an upgrading, rehabilitation and mainteance
program. Under the program, road contracts wIll be awarded by ICB on a slice and package
basis. This will provide domestic contractors the opportuniy to participate. Geographically
dispersed work wIll be procured by LCB.
2.    The main objective of the consultant services is to enhance the ability and capacity of
the states to supervise road works under contract and ensure quality control and adherance to
technical specifications.
Scoe ofW
A. Duties and Responsibilities of the Consultant
3.    The Consultant is to supervise the works and to approve the materials and
workmanship of the works. He is to do this in cooperation and consultation with the State.
He shall have no authority to relieve the Contractor of any of his duties or obligations under
the Contract. He shall not order without consultation with the State any work entailing
delays or any extra payment by the State.
4.    Accordingly, and in consultation with the State, the principal responsibilities of the
Engineer shall be:
(a)   to issue the order to commence to the Contractor;
(b)   to authorize the. Contractor's subleting parts of the work;
(c)   to explain and/or adjust ambiguities and/or discrepancies in the Contract
Documents;
(d)   to provide assistance to the State in the settlement of disputes with the
Contractor;
(e)   to approve the Contractor's working drawing and, if necessary, to issue
fiurer drawings and/or to give instructions tu the Contractor;



- 80 -
Sex 4-7
Page 2 of 4
(t)   to approve data for the setting out of work;
(g)   to approve or to disapprove the Contrator's superindence, key personnel
and/or construction program, land to be occupied by the Contractor, materials
and/or sources of materials;
(h)    as required, to order speeial tests of materis and completed works andlor
remove and eplac improper materils and/or work after prior conltaton
witi the State;
(1)   to control and appraise Works progress, to orde the suspension of Works,
and to authorize extension peiods for Works completion;
(J)   to Issue variation orders, to evluate variations, to fix rates for unpWced
work, to order daywork after obtaining prior approval of the State, and/or to
make recommendatons to the State regarding altemnatives;
(k)   to issue interim certificates for payment to the Contractor and to certif works
completion or parts thereof;
(1)   to inspect the works during and/or after the Mintance Period and to issue
the Maintenance Certificate;
(im)   to carry out all the Engineer's duties as specified in the Co n, within the
limitations specified above;
(n)   to advise the State on all matters conerning claims from the Contractor and
to make recommendations thereon, including the possible recourse to
aitration;
(o)   to insure that their representative and staff provide the State's counterpat staff
with the skills and knowledge needed to provide effective contract supervis
on future state projects;
(p)    advising the State and carrying out work following the apped to arbitration or
litigation concering the Works; and
(q)    any other specialist services by the Consultant or other specialists as may be
agreed upon.
D. Dudes & Resnonhdbilltles of the Consultant's Rrgnteatlve & Sin
S.    Ihe duties of the Consultant's Representative and staff are to supervise construeon of
te Works. They are to test or order to test and examine any materials to be uswed or
workmanship employed concerning the Works. lhey shall have no authority to relieve the
Contra   of any of his duties or obligations undet the Contact. They shall not order any
work involving delay or any extra payment by the State nor to make any variation of, or
ln,Wors. They will transfer to local cutpart staff the skills and knowledge nede  to
pride contract supervision on future projects.



- 81 -
An 4Z
Page 3 of 4
6.    The principal responsibilities of the Resident Engineer shall be as follows:
(a)   to lnspect the performance of the Works concerning workmanship and
compliance with the Specifications and to order, supervise or perform tests on
materials and/or work and to approve or disapprove the Contractors plant and
equipment;
(b)   to order, if required, the uncovering of completed work and/or to remove and
replace improper materials and/or work;
(c) to check systematically Works progress and to order the initiation of certain
work that I part of the Contract;
(d)   to examine and attend the mesement of any work that is about to be
covered up or put out of view before permanent work is placed thereon and/or
to examine and attend the measurement of the completed Works;
(e)   to check the Contractor's accounts, invoices, claims and other statements
concering arithmetical error and compliance with the Contract, and if
reauired to correct thereof;
(t)   to supervise the Contractor in all matters about safety and care of the Works
and if required to request from the Contractor the necessary ligs, guards,
fiencing and watching;
(g)   to direct the Contractor to carry out all such work or to do all such things the
Resident Engineer thinks may be necessary to avoid or to reduce the risk in
case of an emergency affecting the safety of life or of the Works or of
adjoining property;
(O)   to carry out such duties under the terms of the Contract as may from time to
time be delegated in writing by the Consultant;
(i)   to prepare as-built drawings for the complete Worms;
0)    preparing reports or additional contract documents for consideration of
proposas for the carrying out of addidonal work
(k)    arrying out work consequent upon any assignment of the Contract;
01    maintg a day-by-day project diary that sball record all events relevant to
and that might impinge upon the Contract, requests f*om and orders given to
the Contractor, and any other information which may later be of assistance in
resolving ueries that may arise about executing the Works;
(m)   to insure  urpat personnel receive the skills and knowledge needed to
provide contract supervision on future stae projects;



- 82 -
Annex 47
Page 4 of 4
(n)   to identify the skills and knowledge that have been transferred to the
counterpart personnel; and
(o, to demonstrate through certification procedures that the counterpart personnel
are qualified to provide effective contract supervision.
7.    The Consultant shall furrish the State with a full list of all the responsibilities he will
delegate to the Consultant's Representative for Contract supervision in accordance with the
Agreement.
8.    All additional services will be authorized by the State at rates and under condidons to
be mutually agreed.
Regorts and Documents
9.    The Consultant shall furnish to the State the following reports and documents in the
mnumber of copies stated:
(a)    Progr  Reort (10 copies). The Consultant shall submit monthly Progress
Reports to the State. The reports shall include udnutes of site meetings with
the Contractor that the Consultant's Representative has convened. The reports
are to commence at the end of the month following the date of award of the
contract for construction. After the issue of the Completion Certificate, these
reports shall be submitted at quarterly intervals until the end of the
Maintenance Period.
(b)    C(2eton R        20 copies). The Consultant shall submit a completion
report at the time of final certification.
,Oualifications of the Consultant's Reprsetativ
10.   The Resident Engineer is to be a well qualified highway engineer. This expert should
have at least ten years post-Qualification experience. Also, the expert should have five years
of constuction management experlence. The Resident Engineer will need an assistant and
someone with accounting experience. The assistant should be a highway engineer familiar
with construction quality control procedures and tests. The accountant should have experience
in monitoring construction projects and be able to document the flow of materiais and fuids
for construction projects. It will be useful if the Consultant's Representative is familiar with
the FMWH(HSL) standard bidding documents and procurement procedures which will be
used by State for contracting under the MSRP.
11.   It is estimated that this consultancy will consist of about 80 staff-months during the
project implementation.



- 83 -
Annex 48
Page I of 7
F1MDRAL REPUBC OF NIGERIA
SECOND lMULTUMTE RQADS PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Introduction
1.    In the past there have frequently been problems and delays encountered during
implementation of projects in Nigeria. The end results of many projects have also often not
produced the developmental or institutional impact which had been anticipated at project
commencement. In an effort to rectify this situation, particular attention was focused during
preparation of the MSRP II project on how such deficiencies might be overcome.
2.    This annex briefly outlines the proposed approach to monitoring and evaluation of
MSRP II. It is based on monitoring progress during implementation towards achievement of
developmental objectives. The approach known as the Disaggregated Effectiveness Evaluation
(DEE) technique, is described in more detail in background Document No. 4 in project file
(Monitoring and Evaluation, June 1992). This annex outlines the DEE technique, describes
its application to MSRP II and presents sample DEE frameworks to illustrate the processes
involved.
The DFE Technique - An overview
3.    The DEE technique has been developed for the design, monitoring and evaluation of
projects, programs and master plans and for the effectiveness evaluation of organisations in
the private and (especily) in the public sector. The DEE technique uses a systematic
approach to develop frameworks which link objectives, outputs and indicators. These, on an
aid funded project or otherwise, can be used to assess the degree to which stated
developmental objectives are being achieved, either project or plan implementation, or in
terms of the functions of an organisation.
4.    The DEE technique offers an analytical tool to assess how well an organisation is
doing in terms of achievement of its developmental objectives in different technical sectors of
its acivity. It also, at the same time, enables assessment of the organisational effectiveness of
the different divisions in the organisation in terms of their expected contribution to
achievement of those stated objectives. Thbrough this method the technical areas of an
organisation's activities, and :ts organisational effectiveness in achieving its objectives, can be
monitored and evaluated.
5.    The technique is particularly appropriate for application to service sectors and
situations where outputs are difficult to define and measure through conventional monitoring
techniques. It can be applied in any situation where the stated objectives are known and it
provides a measure at any point in time of the degree of achievement attained with respect to
the objectives specified.
6.    In a typical application, DEE frameworks (see figure below) are devised in
consultation with the client organisation to cover all the technical sectors to be evaluated.



- 84 -
Page 2 of 7
Each DEE framework constitutes a skeletal framework which links outputs and indicators in a
very specific way with stated developmental objectives. lhe technique is aimed at achievn
more clarity in the definition of objectives, outputs and indicators at the project or plan design
stage providing a simple and systematic means for monitoring and evaluation of the project or
plan.
Project   Subproject    Component  Output Indicator
TyPicaOFE ae wor Siructur
7.    The technique consists of first establishing an overall objective for the project (or
plan) and then breaking work to be undertaken into a number of sub projects. For each of
these sub-projects, a developmentl objective is established. Components of improvement in
each sub-project are then selected such that they are directly derived from the sub-project
developmenta objective. Each component Is then defined via a mber of outputs and each
output is defined via a number of easily verifiable indicators.
8.    Through this hierarchical method it is oniy necessary to monitor the individual
indicators and, since these are chosen and formulated to be easily verifiable, this is a



- 85 -
An
Page 3 of 7
reively straightforward task. The technique has been or Is now being used for project or
plan design or monitoring on the following types of applications:
*     Public health project (Egypt).
*     Water supply project (Kenya, Nepal).
*     Rural integrated development programme (Nicaragua).
*     Road projects (Peru, Philippines).
*     Forestry project (Kenya).
*     Forestry master plan (Nepal).
*     National road safety projects (Kenya, Ghana).
*     Development of county road safety plaps in 4 UK county councils
(viz. Noningbamshlre, Durham, South Glamorgan ad Clwyd).
Applcation of DEE Technique to MSRP I
9.    As a means to illustrate the DEE Technique and its potential application for
monitoring projects in Nigeria, it was agreed that some illustrative frameworks would be
devised of the type that could be used by the relevant State Authorities and by World Bank
offcials to track developmental progress during implementation.
10.   Since the elements included in both Osun and Oyo States are broadly similar (with the
exception that Osun State includes a maerials testing laboratory), the only red difference
between the 2 states will be in the timing of activities and the actual length of roads to be
mantained or rehabilitated in each State. It was therefore felt acceptable to develop a single
set of DEE frameworks based upon Oyo State in order to illustrate the process involved and
the types of indicators which could be considered for monitoring. Separate (but similar) DEE
-fameworks can readily be devised for Osun State in due course so that that project can be
monitored independendy from the Oyo project.
11. Ihe development strategy agreed between the Nigerian government and the World
Bank and the list of project objectives indicated the key elements and issues which somehow
had to be incorporated into the developmental objectives. Similarly examinton of the project
description identified three of the major area where activities would need to be implemented.
The fourth was derived on the basis of the description of the Roads Sector. This gave four
potenti self contained "sub projects' which, between them, appeared to cover all the main
areas of activity implied by the stated objectives (see Figure 1).
12.   Developmental objectives were then derived for the whole project and for the 4
individual "sub projects". These developmental objectives were fonrulated in such a way that
they encompassed all the key elements of the stated project objectives while providing a
specific focus for developing each DEE famework. These developmental objectives are
given below.
(a)    WholeProj     MRM0Q=
Protection of exist  assets and implementation of a more efficient cost
effective and safe road network through selected road improvements,
insttutonal strengthening and the development/implementation of an effective
labour based system for rouine and periodic road mance in Oyo State.



- 86 -
Annex D4
Page 4 of 7
(b)   Sub-project 1: Road Improvement
Implemnentation of a road improvement programme to protect existing assets
while minimising environmental and road safety disbenefits on the improved
network.
(c)    Sub-prolect 2: Maintenance
The development and training of small scale domestic contractors and
SMOWT staff in labour based and light equipment construction methods and
gradual transfer of routine and periodic maintenance to the private sector in
order to improve signiflcantly the quality and sustainability of road
maintenance activities.
(d)   Sub-proJect 3: Road Safety and the Environment
SMOWT staff, trained In the appropriate techniques, planning and designing
safer, environmentally sound road improvt,aents and rehabilitation schemes
and identifying and improving hazardous locations.
(e)    Sub-project 4: Institutional Strenphening
Improvements of organisational arrangements, institutional capacity and cost
recovery for better planning and maintenance of Oyo State road system and,
in particular, to ensure sustainable maintenance of the road network.
13.   In order to demonstrate how Objectives Achievement frameworks and indicators could
be devised for the project a single sub-project was selected as an example. One of the main
objectives of MSRP2-Oyo is to develop labour and light equipment based methods of road
maintenance and rehabilitation and to gradually move from a force account maintenance
system to a contract maintenance system. Hence the maintenance sub project was selected as
the illustrative example.
14.   The monitoring and evaluation specialist, working with the labour based methods and
maintenance specialists, was able to devise a number of key indicators which, if achieved,
would give a reasonable degree of confidence that the desired developmental impact had
occurred. A DEE Framework was prepared reflecting discussions with the maintenance
specialists and key monitorable quantitative and qualitative indicators were derived so that
progress could be tracked during implementation.
15.   Figure 1 provides an overview of the whole MSRP-Oyo project and shows the 4 sub
projects mentioned earlier. Only sub-project 2, Road Maintenance framework (see figure 2)
has been developed down to indicator level as an illustration of the processes involved. This
pardcular framework was devised in close consultation with the maintenance specialists on the
Mission team but should only be regarded as indicative of the approach to be adopted.
16.   Before this MSRP2-Oyo project can be monitored similar frameworks have to be
developed for the other three sub-projects and the Maintenrnce framework has to be fiurer
refined and edited. Weightings, indicators, targets etc., all have to be agreed with State



- 87 -
Aprex 44
Page 5 of 7
officials. Ilis can be best done at the proposed Project Launch Workshop when all parties
and implementing agencies will participate in discussions about the project and on how best to
ensure trouble free implementation.
17.   That forum would be the appropriate time and place to introduce all parties to the way
the project will be monitored and to get broad agreement on detailed indicators and
weightings for use with DEE frameworks for Oyo and (in due course) for Osun.
Monitoring during implementation
18.   A key element of design is in the selection and derivation of the monitorable
indicators. These are derived in such away that it can be easy to answer with a "yes" or a
"no" to the question "has this indicator been achieved?". If the answer is 'yes' then that
particular indicator can be assumed to have been achieved 100%. If the answer is "no", it
should always be possible to estimate the degree of progress towards achievement of that
particular indicator (eg. 10%, 50%, 70% etc.).
19.   At any point during the course of the project, assessments can be made as to what
progress, if any, has been made with respect to each indicator. These assessments can then
be used along with the weightings ascribed at each hierarchal level to assess overall progress
within sub-projects and by amalgamating sub-projects each project with respect to
achievement of its developmental objectives. Comparison against precalculated achievement
profiles of anticipated progress enables assessment of whether the project is ahead, on or
behind schedule with respect to achievement of its developmental objectives.



m02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f Ii -X 
flile'i  5  2,   1!        1          1~~~~~~H



- 89 -
Annex 4-8
Page 7 of 7
0tcAKOINr
O't lted broeloin of no. afd Ce o miatonc  Staff ad eqsipet
*OOiDt* 68hSinM  of       ..                 aseilable by Manth 0
- nlacIng reetga  svltal                 I                     to *et rai  ac-uto tl vanth I
t I              i tc  tht  e to be retained, cntracted end to be
reSident by Mrt" 2
1eetletic amexasnt of  in    i- tinless  05  rowtiii Cihit"Wentn  ntngcy wstOAdufind by
-ei             of   _            ortiOlOSf   IC     'e   t Omth                                                       -  n
esting gloW  forz ce                            O ll_ t Staffi ang od oipt reqtrents dt(nd tr  Mont 4
*eseW Staff                          rad  mintahee
Se_tla"oiat ptan proepd NW appred by mwth S
Adequate cagoneirn being paid to encourage rotirtSide
Itake ie by eoanth 4
teptMKtation of                  _      tx VW  atsye   opratti  as individuat Ccna toro an routine
rd rtoya  otcm                               SMItVnase bY M       nth9
Rtetained staff fulty occwgied on Wrgciey wd rkeidjat routinw
mintenance by math 6
suwplt saltes retired or moet reaSaidnt tie Of f paiveti) by manth 12
C- ntrectS to hel pro  pa oymnt c leas Inctudd by math  6
Caitrector pamn _     being Made within 28 days of intrif clotes by
Conercrttet odltost to    -                   nth 
be ftir to _ntt contrateorsn             Where edvencr pettnts not possibte. tetUSt requirinMg erladfAta paYct
Of takst coats to be inserted by mAts 
-d t     8th f oreg nb d tooet Cbnyerter to have precisely the so" caditlora
-        ftetttntbt cnratoe                       otctrs     *orif awl tenace   "dstttrtit (4"ti'i'd'  for Muoby cotnth 3
ideatif ld               *       ~~ Contractors for periodic Maintenanceandrhbttto  f"t/r"
reedst idnti led by month 3
Si- 2  l   staff introduced to tabor based gethods en IL0 projects by
tMe 2 traineeS crfinfd as inetrwttorn by mtws 6
coet_  et o                                                               trainiq eurts  of (ttrm  baed routine and periodic qrintte
oottretlg                   -       ittenttet contratws                           prevard by tmaoth 6
lajaffy                             trained it rettetMt ttbtir               LtseW  of tight guipM&Ait (of Aitch I tat for tCrjtnt,G atquiCrd Cy
NNW 44hot                                    wornth 6
At tost 3 mtat contractors traened on pricdic/rehbitiution coure"
bymoth  )
At t7ut lOOb undw contract Maintonance by mcth t2
Aro4rd 600k5* twdw entrec feuds. eeatoetntnc by math 60
otottr corew eustt                       tv(dt   that  ~W  Is atre, ttt *rtanisw rcIOrn  ht pttr(dic 0. t,r0neAC
se  SSiSbte for tf ee                        training as required by eath 24
t*a                                                         wenting thee
_        private t4lcncrtt    being --- =         Sinati wan m_atawnt eontractors tgivn pitot setiom by moth S
given ppartutuities ftr                 Contratrto beqng given Pitot sectiOn. of rtors to raintefin tby  nth 6
pratsIcia ttidnint via pilt
probate  MWrod
- Es .......t....COndition of minteined roa  brought ip to en acteptabeao Lent by .
;Oreg  smitIng effoctively               f     etoinca abst qgatity of weroreanttip ft.. sqttvsts y .
Ceteact "intendme                       i~Rb 1 titatfon and iteprovad trttds et In good cndition by math 12
Maintewnce .prnIr                    warkt4t swsoafully an          =         Condition of *It other maintainable reoas being tept a en tstaable
UlOt rad                                   tint by manth 2'.
edtsution e0 the bet"tlg of 0eriodiC esinte . Wad rathsbtitation
wiats smiting attention by ..........
Sacassary tots. vehictes and frlsdtvaeitabte* at ihort notice for
routine aid owegesy work by month S
amining  Ml t mlatafa                    fargty reapats attended to In order to ainimise traff itc disrtetien
staff fully ossuptld on   -                  Md safety ht_ard  by Mqth t8
_rtWito  a to.tne              -          ehabidtitated ad i(posd project roads being Maintained in goad
MIntRWOR On eaidAt keeds                     owdition yw .
tth r saintibteo roads befng kept In accotabte coodition by .
Staffing teet eaomenurae with actut acrtstad by mnth 12
eto  identifroed-              .       Conditlon surs  being vdrtan at tent 6 menth interets by  anth 6
_n_ae  ctivity n              '           intmnt ativitie  being prioritised erd iaptlgtad in accordance
with cendittien Survey findings by mnth 18
VWt ae to pln. bpt          e           aptonin fi bsd ecoditin surveys ad faAs   fron esisting
am gaio mt Into ee            i towea   activities by math 11
laptovonoatsj                           Adequeta aidt cinty release of fisid occurring bay ajach 3
Neiatasad conrast tender systee working smothty by emath IS
tinrasing  Mam of etI                    IO d of fd netrit Wed  tontr ett MnteWc  by Mnth 12
contratorS wing Lebo                     15 of mintainabte nspsrb wAdr contract _intenonoe by Moth 60
twd med
nmetAia4r4         Ot                 asiatme contestbe ing-.---    Sur tanders being held for sainteansce contracts by manth 12
simide ane a soiitfve          6-        Apatt ft. singte ma aid pO1t cotracts, atl goatractsrs to ha.t
gode Sas                                     atheys gS_  through e tadr proces  fora opantoct by math11 24
for  _ewE    iam e                       VW tS? utf being uEd onty f*r enmPsenies and reeldlt eintainlage
actvity In V             --; roa
rtrictad to _egeit s            -       O        fIt tf tet$ cmans:,-l with srbk ted
aid rMiamt trds
laineatnauca cotactor smtpvialon VSySe astalbtishad by......
le   e  SiSS ecacty NW          -saprvsytf s.. traesidbss by.
e~t_usa to aipatvise              .      .    overeers prvided with swtrccteis by mtnth 6
tract miftawu                                 section tn prosided sith cytcs by mtoth 4
- btter supavilen of                     Accuat repstig st     on -cntrsct tap-t_     tion aid force a at
mustam,e activity an    --                      tinvity    rtin by..........
gait reeds                               SeRads being minteinad to eaqsied stadardsa by......
Sno dswe m   ad traing of et_tt mate d_Iac  atar                 aded staff
in t1st_ tt tad tIght egaiw c5tftstion  _to   d grSWe               troar
d ratstle tiud aedle              to te prisva    tser In ador to ifbeev
o      i i f   t dl ti ate ity of itoe miat _c  ativities.
ViCeS 2: liroejct at  iItu  t(J/Z t     Ot'e



- 90 -
Anne4x
Pae1 of[ 10
EDERAL REPUBLICD NTGJ
SECOND MULTSIST1X JRADS ECT0J
I. IMPLED1A3IONSCHDL
SMOWi (Oyo & Osun)
Acyit
1. Appointment of local consultants (finm local funds) for designing two   August 15,
roads in each state (Done)                                         1992
2. Submission of Training Plans to the Bank for review and agreement    January 31,
1993
3. Appointment of State Coordinating Consultants on tenns and
conditiens agreeable to the Bank
(a)   Submission of request for proposals (RFP) to Bank for
review and clearance (comprising LOI, short list of   January 15,
Consultants, TOR and draft contract)                  1993
(b) Iitaon for P      ls ..........                      .  February 15,
1993
(c) Appointment of Consultants .....................  June 30, 1993
4.    Letter of commitment to implement an agreed plan of action to  January 31,
adjust road user charges to recover recurrent maintenance costs    1993
5. Opening of Special Account (in Dollars) and Project Account (in  May 31,
Naira) with an initial deposit of at least $280,000 equivalent (Naira) in a    1993
commercial bank
6. Appointment of consultants (Bank financed) for designing first and
second year road projects                                         June 15, 1993
7. Appointment of consultants (Bank financed) for designing 3rd, 4th and
5th year road projects                                             June 15, 1994



Annex 4-9
Page2 of 1Q
8.    Civil Works in Para   above:
(a)   Finaibidsing idoments .       do        m    nt...................  Mayl5,1993
(b)   Ivitebids ..........................   June 15, 1993
(c)   Award Contacts ..........................  November
15, 1993
9. Civil Works in Para. 6 above:
(a)   Finalise bidding documents ...................  April15,
1994
(b)   Invite bids ..........................    May 15, 1994
(c)   Award Contracts ..........................  October 15,
1994
10. Works in Para. 7 above:
(a) Finalisebiddingdocuments    .....................   April15,
1995
0b)   Invite bids ...........................    May 15, 1995
(c)   A-Awd Contracts ..........................   October 15,
1995
11.  Procrement of vehicles and equipment ([CB):
(i)   Preparation of specifications and schedule of  January 15,
requirements .1993
(ii)   Preparation of draft bidding documents .February 15,
1993
(iii)  Clear draft bidding documents with theBank ....   March 15,
1993
(iv)  Invitation for bids .............  ......   May 15, 1993
(v)   Award Contracts                                August 16,
1993



- 92 -
12. Labor based mainteace by contract component;
(a)   Assignment of two persons for taining wi ILO/NDE      September
project in Nigeria (Done)                             30, 1992
(b)   Identficationof local contactors to be trained  .......  June 15, 1993
(c)   Commence  taining of con    actors ..... ..........  July 1S, 1993
13.   Appointment of xtenal Auditon at the State level .........   May 15, 1993
14.   Submission of annual audit reports s tartng..........    December
1993
15.   Siging of subsidiary loan agreement between the stat and FON    June 15, 1993
16.   Obtain legal opinion of FON on the Credit Agreement .July 31, 1993
17.   Consultants:
(a)   Appointment of Consultants for MSRP m..........   February 15,
1993
(b)   Appointment of consultants for MSRP IV  ..........   September
15, 1993



-.93 -
IL D?TS 0E ROE
A. ONO SQA2
Project Zlemet                    _ ___Pot Year
1993       1994     19-      1996      1997      18       em
Loan Timiq.
S4    eti veoa                    5/93 8g93                                           6/98
BWAward                          0 0
1.S        3.6       3.8     3.6                         12.5(Lotl)
-eyin4jaye                             'x xx    xrxcx   X
15       3.1      3.3       3.2              11.1 (Lot 2)
koyi-Ile-Ahoro Dada-dege                        m1c    mx   mmx   22
1.0     2.0                         3.0 (Lot3)
lbadJn JnDagbolu4LBdr.                                   m        Ixx    Ix"xm
1.0     2.1       2.1      1.0      6.2 (Lot4)
-Igaa-boora                                               lx=    mXXiX  xmamOi xxx
0.5     1.0      1.0       0S       3.0 (LotS)
Undefined                                                  712   121002   XXXmwX   xxm
Pf:
Bid/Award                           0    0       0    0   0  0    0   0
badan (Cesatl)-badn (Weal                        0.7       0.9      1.0      0.9      5        4.0 (4 LAts)
Ibadan (CcowaD-bodan In. (Be)                     xxxi um mx  1x    x      mawxxicx   xxx
Ibadan (Gaft-bdan Ote)
0.1       0.2              0.3 (1 Lo)
Oyo (C ra-Ah 4nmin                                                 xx      x
.3      .7        .8     .2        2.0 (3 Low)
Budo lyayoyM..XIshi                                      mxxx     xx,oxx   mmx   M
.8       .8       .8        .8       .5      3.7(12Lots)
narel Rade RehablIato                           mm XmXx   xmxxi  mxxxxmx                          (1.2 VDA)
(2.5 MMS)
glbw.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.2 (Other)
.7       .7      .7        .7       .4         (0.6 IDA)
Road MainUnane by Conant                       xxxxx  xxox                            mx          (2.6 OMSL)



_ 94 -
5 of10
Prqeat Elment                                             Poct Year
1993            199S4  9     1996                1998    RemOs
Bid/Award                            0   0
.8       .8      .8                          2.4 (1.9 ICE)
Vehicles, Light Equi_ent for rebab. of         xxxmcx  mmc         xxx                           (0.5 Othr)
gravel roads, hand tools and office, lab
and survey equipment, oft.
.2        .5       .6       .6         .5      .2       2.6
Project Tnplementaon                 xxxix     xixxxix    xix)s  xxuxm   mxxxix   xx
5         1.0      1.0      .5        .3                3.3
Capaity Building                     xxxi      xaax  xiaux   xxixx               x
.1        .2       .3       .3        .3       .1       1.3
t TrailiiDz                                    x xmxxx  mmx   xxoaox  It. aacI  mmx   xx
Total (Oyo State)            2.3        9.8     14.8     17.5      10.8      3.4     58.6



V 95-
Annex s
Pas 6 of 10
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ U .    .                         PtYea
ProJet Yewr
Proect Element                                                                  -        -       Remark
_____________________________________        1993     1994    l99S     19       1997     1998   __ marks
Loan Timing:
Sign/BfecteClo,                             00        -        -                         o
.4      1.0     1.0    1.0       1.0                4.4 (Lot 1)
Oahogbo By-Pa.                                mx       xm       mx       mx=
Ada-bokmn
Igbajo-Imea-Re Ondo StAdr.                      .7      2.0      2.0    2.0      2.0                8.7 (o 2)
Osogbo-wD lnel                                xxx       xm     mxo    xxx       x
~Jebu-J.sa-flare Otan-De
I1are-lboak                                              .7      1.S    1S      1.S        .8      6.0 (Lot 3)
EseaokoEssodo                                          xxxx    mx    xxxx    xxx           x
Ibokun-Oita Ido Miasi
EjWoAia-Ed                                               .9      1.9    1.9      1.9       1.0      7.6 (Lot 4)
ftigbo-Aa-P.                                                    xxmx    mwx    Xx        m
Kuta-Ede
1.7    1.7      1.6                S.0 (Lot 5)
Apomo-.Anri.Owu.Ori Owua                                        m      xxx
.7     1S      1S                3.7(Lot6)
Undefined                                                       xxix   xxm      xm
Packaep:
Asipa-Edunabon
Rua (SUJ)4foVWnj                                        .5       1.0    1.0      1.0       .4       3.9 (S Lots)
niaa-4gboy*4Woen                                       xxx     xX      m        xx=x ma
Gravel Road. Rehabition                                .8      .8      .8       .8        S      3.7(12 Lot)
xxsx    xxix   mx       xXix      xx          (1.6 IDA)
(2.1 GOSL)
.7                                       0.7 (1 Lot)
Matrials Lob. MIwt
.7      .7      .7     .7   .4            3.2 (Other)
Road Maintanae and Spot  provemt                                0x xxx    xxix   mx                  (.6 IDA)
_____________________________ _                                     ;(2.6   GOSL)



.-96 -
Amex4-
DUg 7 g£ 10
Projec Year
Project lt_                                   1993    1994_             1996     17       1998    Rma*b
Uf: Vebicles, Ilght equipent fr rehabilioaoo of          .8     .8       .8                        2.4 (1.9 LCB)
gavel roads, hand tools and office, lab and suwy             x(05 Oe)
aquipmen, etc.
Tochale AWsww
.2      5      .6      .6        S    .2        2.6
pretl uple_ mwm tation                                        m x         =m
.S    1.0      1.0     1.0      0.4             3.9
Capacit Dlug             emII IIaam                                      I     xxaxmm 
.1    .2      a3      .3        .3    .1        1.3
Tz~nina                                                                        x2x xxxa masm    xm XI=
Total (Osun S)                                  1.9      9.8    14.0   14.8    13.2         3.4  S7.1
;                        .   .               .                            ,  -
C.-
.2      .2                 0.4
Project I=inpmetatio                                                  xwaax     mo
.6      .7    .7                           2.0
Capaity Boa"in                                                xx ax
0.1      0.0               0.1
Sub-total (FMWBD                                          .6      .7      1.0      .2               2
GRAND TOTAL ftojw)                              4.2     20.2    29.5    333      24.2       6.8   118.2
IDA FDNANCJNO (Anna by PY)                        7.5    16.8    20.4       19.6    17         8.0 8I.0



_ 97 -
Pago o
]LMONlORABLE TARGM AM PRFORBMANCE ENDICATORS
A: ,0 Y.OSI&2
At  Dec  Doe       Dec      Dft        Dec     Al   pjtee
MSab_how                                          uns  Sbart    93           94       9 _                 96 7   c_m  k
Doesi  SUdie                                        *       0        30      sO       100                            100
Sal audit sytm etablsHd                                     0 O     100                                              1o0
DosgM  vieed/sa       audted                                0 O      30      80      100                             100
Egined  desiSas + bid documents comd               lmn      0               200      350        381                  381
Civi Wak Contas awardd                             km       0        45  lSO         250       350        381        381
Kras. of roads in maitable condiion                km      3W      300      400      Soo       600       750         no
OpeAl deme   (sgns, makng, el:.) instaed           km      100    200       400      500       60a       750         750
tA cyMW    o dMiGiera mons ind_y                    %       20      20       40       80       100       l1O          100
Km. undwe conacto maintenance                      km       0       100     250      350       SW0       700         700
% of ndwo*  unde forcaccoun mainte m                %       100     90       7S       65        SO        30          30
Supeevi     tff in maint nano odion                 no      34      27       20       20        20        20          lo
Labore  In maina I   _   division                   no     638    S10       383      255       200       200         200
Labor/h cquipmet be contato tlvAd                   no      0       0        10       1S                              1S
Siogl mn coQ hnt      empbyd                        so      0       30       80      120       180       250         250
pdl inst. w    it h labor/ight equip. based mbods  km       0        0      100      200       300       450         450
Sham of fomawcountintotAlmitonwe                    %       100      90      75       65        50         30         30
Localcapaciy to adminst maL contra s                        10      40       90      100                             100
Loal cpaoity to eiuivey supeie maitane                       10      20      50        75      100       100         100
Biddoeueom                                          S       .       2.4                                                2.4
Contrct awared                                      $                2.4                                              2.4
Vad   p      whas                                    S               0.8                                              0.8
Dquipmant/splispsr purched                          S                1.6                                              1.6
Lol staff taind (dosic)                            mm       0       so      1o0      150       200       250         250
alaasftaff  atvd (ovase)                           mm       0       20       40       60        s0       100         100
Capc0y to managdomperviseo confta  mal sysm                 10      40       90      1to        --1



-98 -                                        Anae%492
bag 9of l
At    Da        Da       Da       Dec       D        At Prodece
M          xoutorb item                           Uni  St           3    94    95    96                 n    Capla
.. , ,, .l -                                                -     -,. ,,,._......
Cost rwovery from road sem (recumet malL)          %       56     100      100       100     1t0        100         100
Msitenano budget allocation as % of eod            %       30       60     100      100       100       100         100
Quartedy progrs Repors                             no      0        2        6       10        14        18         18
Fil
Disbu   zemetag  achivd (cuuative)                 Sm      0       1.8      8.5     19.0      31.3      39.2       41.9
Counterpa fiud aget abieved (cumultive equW.)      Sm      0      0.7       3.4      7.6      12.5      15.6        16.7
STAC Cnsukunbt                                    mm       0       40      120      200       240       250        250
Deig + Supervisio Coasukant                       mm       0       30      110      160       180       200        200
Loca Con_ _a_                                     ___20                             200       240       250 __0
B: Q.1I
Road lmnroveen
Daign Studies                                      %        0      30       80      100                             100
Safety audit system estabshed                      %        0      100                                              100
Design mviewed/safidy audited                      %       0       30       80      100                             100
Engineering desigs + bid domaet compkletd          km       0      55      182      318       377                  377
Civil Works Contas awarded                        hn       0       41      136      228       328       377        377
Kms. of roads m maintainable condtion              km     200    200       300      400       500       650        650
Opentonal elements (sips, mardng, ow.) inled       kn      100    1S0      300      400       500       650        650
Loal capackyto adm;n;s oontacs indepedey           %       20      20       40       80       100       100         100
Miitaaem  (Sven)
Kms. under contract Maintenanc                     km       0      1OO     250      350       SOO       700        700
% of neworkunderforoaccount maneenane      o       %      100      90       75       65        So       sO          30
Supersory staff in maitenanec davision             no      16      12       10        6         4        4           4
Labourers in mainteane diviio                      no      1ff     150     100       75        50        50         50
Laborigh equipment basd  _onco  tained            no      0        0       10       15                             1S
Single mam conact  employed                        no      0       30       80      120       180       250        250
Periodic Mat laboig  equip. based methods          km      0        0       50     LO        250       350        350
Share of force accountintal nn manoost             %       100     90       75       65        SO        30         30
Lca capacity to adAnister mai ance contracts               o1    40         90      1OO                             1OO
Lcalcapacity to effctvely supervisc m _aien        5       10      20       50       75       100       100         100
VEadoVSvar
Bid docucens completed                             S        O       2.4                                               2.4
Contracts awardd                                   S       0        2.4                                               2.4



TE~~~                                              -I F
01  *t t 
I~~~~I -t                  U    N1 
I            I                 V     
_ I   I                                          ,
o~~~~~ ~ ~                           C o  0      0  Sog <S Ag  iioXa  
.. t t .. _ s  t
I-oo Ywg B gi    {ooOg      * "          oW o W$ 
!  I  !                            -  ---    
o_ _ _  Iw         I B              W w°tA              fi"



- 100 -
FEtDRXA  REPUBLIC Or NIGERIA                Annex 4-10
Page 1 of 2
SECOND uLYiS?ZAYN ROADS PROJECT
DZ8D]38 UNNW sCeEUgLE
(u8$ MILLION)
STANDARD
)"PRAISAL KsTINA?XS                 RZEU.R P1xaLx
ANUAL DI8NRSBSUE    CUR. DZSB3USXUBM          AFRICA  EaIoN
AT END QUARTER         AT END QUARTER        RANSVPORTA12:'N
QUARTER ENDING                 I    V8S                I    uS                   (I)
FISCAL YEAR 1994
First Quarter Sep 93             2  1.88                 2  1.88
Second Quarter Dec 93             2  1.88                4  3.75                  a
Third Quarter Mar 94              2  1.68                7  5.63
Fourth Quarter Jun 94             2  1.68                9  7.50                  3
FISCAL YEAR 199S
First Quarter Sep 94              5  4.20               14 11.70
Second Quarter Dec 94             S  4.20               19 15.90                 10
Third Quarter Mar 9S              5  4.20               24 20.10
Fourth Quarter Jun 95            5  4.20                29 24.30                 18
rISCAL YEAR 1996
First Quarter Sep 95              6  5.10               35 29.40
Second Quarter Dec 95             6  5.10               41 34.50                 30
Third Quarter Mar 96              6  S.10               47 39.60
Fourth Quarter Jun 96             6  5.10               53 44.70                 42
FIsCA.L YEAR 1997
First Quarter sep 96             6  4.90                58 49.60
Second Quarter Dec 96             6  4.90               64 54.50                 54
Third Quarter Mar 97              6  4.90               70 59.40
Fourth Quarter Jun 97             6  4.90               76 64.30                 62
FISCAL. YaR 1996
First Quarter Sep 97             4  3.18                79 67.48
Second Quarter Dec 97            4  3.18                83 70.65                 74
Third Quarter Mar 98             4  3.18                87 73.82
Fourth Quarter Jun 98            4  3.18                91 77.00                 82
FISCAL YEAR 1999
First Quarter Sep 98             2  2.00                93 79.00
Second Quarter Dec 98             2  2.00               95 81.00                 a6
Third Quarter Mar 99             2  2.00                98 83.00
Fourth Quarter Jun 99            2  2.00               100 65.00                 94
FIsCAL YEAR 2000
First Quarter Sep 2000            -     -                    -                   98
second Quarter Dec 2000           -     -                _   _
Third Quarter Mar 2000            -     -                _   _                   100



-0
E "
80  sWPSw3 IVS    .                      (B VM) ,odsuAeL .....
IUAsOJddV 4jpsJ WOJ~ SJSJUN
O£ 8Z 9Z bZ ZZ OZ 81 91 bl Zl. Ol 8 9 V 0 
.................................  ........................................................................................................   ...... . . ..................... .................  w ..:':._O Z
.                                                ..''""'/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. 
~~~~~...........     ..........I.........  ...................  ......................                 ..............   .............I..........;. ,.. X  _ 0 9
.. ............. ...... .     8
.......                      .  B::::....  ................ .... ......  ......   .........I...........................................I..........  ........  .............  ..........I.........I.............................. 0 0 OL
MzPGA3 O  %)
eq  ;ouosinqsiC
oa.3...6'J  43 'PU                                                                         001
10efOJd speoU 89jesgfljn puooeS



- 102 -
AnnexA1 1
Page 1 of 5
FEDRIWAL REPUBLIC OF NIGEQ IA
Q&MD EIAiTEROADSUQJE
Eovim lu al Assessmnt Summaa
1.    State roads in Nigeria handled 15 million vehicles/km/day in 1988 or 25 percent of
the flow of the federal roads system. State roads are of primary Importance as the link for
intra-state commerce and trade between seats of local governments and as the backbone of the
secondary collector-distributor road system. Many of the roads are In vary bad condition and
in sgificant need of rehabilitation and routine maintenance.
2.    The main objective of the proposed State Roads Project is to support a five year State
Roads rehabilitation program in selected states, including a feasible road upgrading,
rbilitation, and mainenance program; and an institutional development program including
traing. Ihe FMWH will coordinate all the design, rehabilitation, and inaintenance activities
of the partcipaJng states.
3.    An environmental reconnaimance (assessment) of the proposed multi states roads
project (MSRP) was carded out in May/June 1990 in cooperation with the Nigerian Federal
Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) and the Pederal Ministry of Works and Housing
,MWH). As a result of the findings of this reconnaissance, the project was classified as
Category B.
T   Environmental-Reoonnasanoe
4.    The Terms of Referepee for the environmental study were:
(a)   to identify environmental issues which relate to road rehabilitation in the
participating states of Nigeria at generic and specific levels, while providing
definition of those issues to clearly illustrate the type and scope of issues
which should be addressed during project implementation;
(b)   to identify potenti adverse ecological changes which are normally associated
with road ma_itenace in general and, specifically, within the participaing
states;
(c)   to prepare recommendations for environmental studies which would provide
necessary information to road agencies to ensure the environmental soundness
of the design and techniques employed in state road programs, and
recommend measures which would mitigate potenially adverse impacts of
road maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading practices; and



- 103 -
Annex 4-11
Page 2 of 5
(d)   to assist government agencies in establishing environmental assessment
practices which could be applied to all road components of the federal roads
system.
5.    The states selected for participation in the Multi State Roads Project have different
environmental conditions. In general, road construction projects - including the reconstruction
or rehabilitation of roads - have local environmental impacts, positive or negative. The most
common negative impacts include soil erosion due to improper designs of embankments or
side drains; scouring of the landscape due to the opening of borrow pits; and destruction of
vegetation due to clearing of right-of-ways. Positive environmentl impacts may accrue to the
local 1apulation living along the roads, in dhe form of less road accidents, better agriculural
marketing possibilities, and others. Adverse impacts due to the construction of new roadr are
normally much more severe, and could include disturbing fiagle ecosystems or opening up
areas of natur ' resources to exploitation or unplanned population movcnent. Examples of
this include placing roads through wildlife areas or forest reserves, which increases the
chances of poaching or over-exploitation of timber. New road construction can also create
land-tenure system stress, as roads through areas can increase market opportmities and,
therefore, the value of land. Since no new roads will be constructed by this project,
environmenal conct.ns associated with new road construction are not relevant to this project.
Neither will the project cause any resettement of people.
6.    In the case of road rehabilitation works, as in the MSRP case, the enviroamental
impacts tend to be more limited, local and direct, and will result more from construction
activities or improper design. Based on secondary research and limited field trips, the
following impact are expected:
(a)    potential increase of gully erosion in all states, but especially in Anambra
Staw, due to the improper placement of state roads and the lack of design
procedures for adequately distributing runoff;
(b)   local and temporary reductions in air quality due to emissions from bitumen
processing plants;
(c)   soil erosion from side drains and improperly reseeded embankmens; and
(d)    environmental and health problems associated with the improper restoration of
gravel borrow pits.
7.    Since the road alignments of most roads in the project are expected to remain
unchanged, the secondary impacts of the MSRP are fairly benign. The following
recommendations were made to ameliorate the potent  adverse environmeal impacts of the
MSRP:
(a)    each road to be rehabilitated should be surveyed by the appropriate agency in
each state to determine whether a separate environmental analysis is
necessary;



- 104 -
Anex 11
Page 3 of S
(b)   the FEPA should develap  ronmental assessment (EA) guidelines with
paticular rfrence to road constuction and rehabilitation works, and should
use the MSRP as a case study for the preparadon of EAs on road
tehabilitation pojecs; and
(c)   the case study should identitr appropriate or innovative design procedures for
dispersing water runoff for roads in all of the states, but with particular
emphasis on roads being rehabilitated in Anambra State.
Envi_anu Inmu
8.    Road rehabilitation and the continued mainten ce of these roads may have either
positive or negative direct and secondary impacts, depending on the former condition of the
road Q.e., its use and the accessibility of the community to markets) and the opened
opporties to improved health and other soca services. Rilitating a feeder road from
a foot path to an all-aonal road opeig new markets and socia services will have a
positive direct e  mental impact due to opening up of new land-use opporunides for the
om    nity at the end of the road.
9.    In the case of the MSRP, the main impacts will probably result from the direct effects
of rehabilitation activities on the immediate environment. Ihe severity of the impacts wil
depend on the type of rehabilitation activity, such as bituminous resealing, asphalt overlay, or
regraveling, and the amount of clearing associated with this resurfacing. Ihe extent of
readigmnt and change in the road gradient will also determine the extent to which the direct
nvironment will be affected, especialy with respect to soil erosion.
10.   The eAviromental impacts of rehabilitating state roads varies from state to state. As
evidenced in Kaduna State, soil erosion has been exacbated due to inadequate design of
runoff drains and culverts. Additionaly, improper revegetation of embankments on bridge
abtments and gravel borrow pits leads to increased water and wind erosion. In the case of
Osun and Oyo states, it is expected that proper enginering designs of surface water drains
will reduce erosion and sedimentation problems along the profile of the roads.
11.   Borrow pits used for gravel base and sub-base material are not always restored
prperly. With federal highways, the pits may be levelled, but they do not appear to be
revegetated. In livestock production areas, local poplaion often request that these pits be
left open for watering livesto    lhis may be an acceptable use, but only if they are
protected from livestock damage and soil erosion, someting which is presentdy not the case.
In addition, these pits provide breeding habitat for mosquitos and snail hosts of bilharzia
12. In certain states, like Anambra and Imo, gully erosion is severe and caused by, or
ex 1-1 sw 1by, road constucdon. However, there are other reasons for the guUy erosion
that originate from improper land-ue activities and land clearing. From inteviews with
consultants involved in erosion control projects, it aopears that the problems are created by
the inadequat provision of drage facilities, especily crossoad drains. This leads to
sUious damage of roads and the incrse in erosion in the vicinity of the roads.



- 105 -
Page 4 of 5
13.   Specifications for the desi  ad construcdon of roads, it appears, do not necessarily
cosider proper stabilzation of subsoil nmteri for crsing wetand areas.
14.   Jn most cases, Indiret environmental hmpacts of road rehabflitation works will
probaly not occur, sic the road aligame  and gradients are not being changed. In certin
cas, as in the KaolKaduna road, marks have developed along the road when tl a has
been a change in alignment. lhis should be expected especially if the old alignment passes
through a settlement Iherefore, the selecdon of the final road sites for each state is very
imorant.
15. Road rehabilitation is supervised and inspected differently in each state. In some
stat, te staff exist to inpect and supervise all of the reconstruction work. In other states,
the State Ministries of Works and Transport (SMOWs) must hire consulting firms to supervise
and inspect all of the rehilitation work. In both cases, conwtractors should be required to
reseed embankments and restore gravel pits.
16.   The primary respomibility for environmental protection in Nigeia rests with the
FEPA. Specificaly, FEPA is mandated to -...have responsibility for the protction and
development of the envonment in general and envronmental technology, including initiaton
of policy in relation to v i     research and technology..." In relatiLz to the
assesmn of  Ivimnet impacts of development project, FEPA is also mandated to:
(a)    develop, utilize, cooriate, and share environmental monitoring programn,
promote environmental research, collect basic data on chemical, physical, and
biological effects of various activities on the environment, and engage in other
y related activitie as appropriate;
(b)    establish envioneal criteda, guidelines, specifications, or standards for the
protection of the nation's air and inter-state waters as may be necessay to
protect the hedth and welfare of the population from environmental
degradation;
(c)    establish procedus and guidelines for industrial or agricultural activities in
order to minimize damage to the enviomnt from such activities; and
(d)   providing a progm of tecnical assistance to bodies (public or private)
concerning implnt          of environmental criteria, guidelines, regulations,
and s ds, and monitor the enforcement of these regulations and
standards.
17.   To date, FEPA has ocentd on developing its central and regional offices, and
developing ewpertise in specific areas. In the near fitue, FEPA will be located in Abuja with
zona offices in six regons. Ihese include the five already established at Kano, Lagos,
Kadun, Port-Harcou  and Benin City. The other will be at Ma . FEPA views its
madate maiy as quantfying and reducing pollution from direct water pollution sources.
The backwr        and experience of the staff at the agency reflect more of the chemical



- 106 -
Annex4
Page 5 of 5
engineering and environmental engineering perspective than that of environmental assessment
and the development of plans to mitigate the adverse impacts of road rehabilitation and/or
reconstruction. However, IEPA has a strong interest in developing the guidelines,
procedures, and staff to review and evaluate environmentl assessments on infrastructre,
engineering, and development projects.
Mitigation Plan
18.   FEPA will provide FMWH with the broad enviromnental guidelines applicable to the
project. These guidelines will also be agreed with the Bank. However the final responsibility
for the implementation of EAs lies with each participating state. ITe SMOWs would be
responsible for: (a) environmental screening and monitoring of their progrms; and
(b) conducting, with the use of local consultants, ElAs of sensitive road links.
19.   Since neither FEPA, nor the respective SMOWs have the in-house capabilities at
present to conduct EAs, the EAs will be conducted by consultants working under terms of
references agreed with FEPA and the Bank. The consultants should be hired by each
participating state under the framework of the project. Previous environmental work
performed by Nigerian consultancy organizations for Bank projects have demonstrated an
adequate EA capacity in the private sector.
20.   Ihe First Multi-State Roads Project will facilitate the establishment of an
Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Unit, (EAMU) in the FMWH. This unit will
work directly with FEPA and the SMOWs in the preparation of terms of references for FlAs,
selection of consultants, approval of EIAs, supervision of mitigation programs, and regular
monitoring of impacts caused by the projects.
21.   The local population living along the roads to be rehabilitated must be kept informed
through public meetings that would also serve as suitable forums for consultation on
environmental impacts and the need for local community measures.



- 107 -
Page I of 2
IRDERAL REEl)LIC OK NIGERIA
MU=S NMULllSATE- ROADS IPROEC
SupBesoan,
Ithe IDA input into the table below is In addition to regula needs for the review of
progress reports, procuement actions, correspondence, etc., esmated to require 12 staff
weeks per year for the first t    project years, and 8 per year thereafter.
Approximate         Activity            Expected Skill       Staff Weeks
Dates of Input                           Requirements
(mo/yr)                                                                 l
9193       Supervision Mission   Engineer, Economist,         10
(Project Lamch)     Inst}itional Specialist,
Procurement Development
Specialist, Disbursements
1/94      Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial           8
with special        Analyst, Institutional and
emphasis on         Trainig Specialist,
technical assistac    Traffic and Safety
l ____   and training               Engimeer
5/94      Supervision Mission   EngIeer,                      12
Economis/Isittonal
Specialist, Prcuremen,
Disbursemet,
_ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~Environment_                 _    _
8/94      Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial           10
with special        Analyst, Insthtuonal and
emphasis on         Training Specialist
supervision of works
12/94      Supervision Mission   Engieer, Financial            7
Analyst, Insttutional
Specialist
6/9S      Supervision Mission   Engineer,                     7
Economitnsiuonas
Specialist, Analyst,
l ___ ____ ___ _    __ ____ ___ ____ _   E nironm ent



- 108 -
Page 2 of 2
Approxima             Activity              Epcd  Skill            Staff Week
Dates of InRa
(m o  /yr    _ _    _   _   _   _   _   _   _ _   _   _   _       _   _
9195       Supervisio  Mbssi      Engiee, Financia                  7
Analyst, nsitona and
l__________      .___________        _  . .T a in n   Sp ilist
12/95 to 98    Supervision Mission   Engineer, Pinancial               7
Analyst, sdtional and
l _  _  _ _  _    ,__    _  _ _    _    Tr in n   S pe ias           _  _  _  _
6/96       Supvision Mison   Engineer, In          onal and         9
and mid-term reviw   Tning Specit,
Eniron AlySt
6197 to 99    SupetvisIn Mision   Engineer, Economist,                 7
Instuton and Trnn
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  S peciait_                          _   _
9/99       SWpervision and        Engie, Fincial                    8
PCR prqmaeon          Analyst, Institutional and
pp t E   -      ... ._    Training Speciu   j



- 109 -
Anex51
Page 1 of 11
FEERAL, REPUBIIC DE NLGIR=
SECOND MULTAU  ROADS PRUOJ
Econoric Andysis
General
1.    From an economic point of view, the main objectives of the physical components of
MSRP's road imptovement program are to  ease the road transport capacity, reduce
transport costs and ptect past Investments in the highway network. lhe purpose of the
economic analyses is to detrmine the appropriate design, tming and the works to be
undertaken on each road. The work on economic analyses, summaized below, was
conducted by Consultant (DF) financed under a Japanese Grant Agreement as part of the
preparatory studies undertaken in the participating states to develop a five-year program of
priority road works in each state and to identify ffnancial and ins"tional requirements for
carying out the program. A copy of their report 1/ is included in the project files.
2.    Ihe Consultants used the World Bank's Highway Design and Mantenance Model
(HDM HI) for evaluation of alternative investments on each of the road sections in the state
roads network. The model eentally simula the total life cycle conditions and costs on
each road section to provide the economic decision citeria for multiple road maint ce and
rehabilitation alteratives.
3. Benefits were evaluated on a 'with and without investmentW basis, derived essentially
from savings in vehicle opering costs, but the impact of variations in the costs of road
m-ntenance was also included. Evaluation was based on the net present value (NPV) of all
costs and benefits and the economic rates of retu  (ERR) of the proposed works.
Prioritzation and phasing of individual road projects was done on the basis of the ERR.
4.    Alternatives for demining the ext of works ranged from minimal routine
mainenance on the existin roads to resurfacing and complete reconstruction of the road
pavement. Ihe depth to which each alternative was studied was related to its likelihood of
being chosen as the optimal solution Each component of the most promising alternative (i.e.
strengthening, reabilitation, upgrading, improvement of alignment, new construction, etc.)
was, whenever technically meaningful, stdied seaely. he economic rate of retrn was
computed separately for each road section which was then selected for implementation only if
the return was at least 12% per annum.
1V TRDF, Multi State Roads Project (MSRP) Praration, Draft Final Report, June, 1992.



- 110 -
Am LI1
Pae 2 of X1
Basic Dat
5.    Basic data required for input to the H1DM model was collected by the Consultants
during prepartory stdies. This comprised, inter alia, network inventry and pavement
surveys to obtain for each road link, the geometric char cs, pavement condition and
struct    strength, subgrade strength, traffic volumes and vehicle distibion, unit cost of
maintenance operations, and vehicle fleet characteristics and unit operating costs. Tables 1
through 4 give a summary of representative data on road link char tics, unit matenace
costs, vehicle fleet cdacteristics and unit costs, and maiteace alternatives evaluated. For
a more detailed description of the input data see Consultants' report on file.
6.    Costs were considered both in financial and economic terms (after adjusig for taxes,
duties and subsidies, etc.). Benefits to generated traffic, where applicable, were computed on
the basis of 50% of savings in unit vehicle operatng cost (VOC). Traffic projections over the
economic life of a road improvement were based on a uniform growth rate of 3% per anm.
7.    Table 5 gives a summary of the average vehicle operating costs for diferent vehicle
classes obtained on roads vaig In condition from good to very poor. As seen from the
table, weighted average savings in VOC resulting from improvements in the road condition
range from US Cents 2.8 to 12.3 per veh-km depending on the initial condition of the road.
8.    Tables 6 and 7 give a summary of the ERR of selected road improvements in Oyo and
Osun states respecdvely, to be implemented under the project. The minim  desirable ERR
is taken as 12 percent. As indicated, the evauation and selection of some gravel and paved
roads to be improved, reconsucted or upgaded in the two  s  will be done during
implementation of the project. In addition, some allowance has been made in the cost
estimates for spot improvement of selected unpaved roads by contract using labor Intensive
and light equipment assisted methods in both states. For road projects to be included in the
project subsequently, it would be ageed dung negotiations that the minimum acceptable
ERR would be 12%.
9.    Based on evaluations carried out thus far, the results show that the weighted overall
ERR for roads component in Oyo state Is 53% and In Osun 32%. The combined ERR for the
roads component in both states is 43%. Benefits fDr the remaining components (technical
assistance, equipment and vehicles purchase and training), amounting to about 19% of total
project costs, are high but non-quantifiable. Excluding benefits from these components but
icluding their costs, the composite weighted average ERR for the project is 35%.



- 111 -
Annex 5-l
age 3 of 11
TABLE 1
ROAD LINK CHARACI:ERISZ
_       -_       .                          N= --*
iQk        Prom                o            LAem&     Pavement   Fbwmm venaj    AR    RouA"ihnes
(kin)     TZE a/   W!idth (m)   yI4Ik    1221       anR3
_ _   __  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _      _ _  _     _ _  _     _  _        (mn)_              _  _  _
844    IkIrs            Ikoyl                   4.6      SD           5.7       0.0    4488         8.67
835    Iwo ldabout     IbadanRoad              2.7       SD           6.7       0.0    3503         5.29
867B   Eebu Oesba       iare                   14.5      SD           6.1        0.8    758         9.06
838    Awo              PJjgbo                 223       SD           6.7        1.2    661         13.00
856    ifitu            Ondo St. Brder         10.0      SD           S.9       0.0    620         13.00
832    Iwo Rdabout       gigbo Road             2.6      AC           7.4        1.4    3053       15.21
930   OChoubofly.pm    Oshoobo Bypass          15.0     NEW           6.1        0.0    1335        9.63
850    16 So. Oke"rew   I (E) Abui St.          0.7      AC           72        0.0    9427         5.32
864     bokua           Ads                    12.0       AC          6.0       0.0    600         13.00
852A   tbsha (SW)       Ifewara                19.0      SD            .-       ..       _           -
827    Iwo Nofdh        Iwo Cnraol              0.9      AC           6.1       0.0    7S8          13.00
8478   Adfi             lb Centra              19.3      EAR         11.1        0.0    100        13.00
866    Ibobm (E)       ibokun                   1.5      EAR          6.6       0.0    2100         7.06
857    Okuku            Eukolo                  8.1      SD           5.7       0.0    S8S          18.24
867A   tare             Dbokun (E)              5.5      EAR          6.0       0.0    399         13.00
825    Iwo Wet          two North               2.7      AC           S.0       0.0    1662         9.93
847A   Adi&             ib (Central)           3.3       SD           4.8        0.0    15S2       17.24
103    W8sbo           EDd                    3S.0      EAR           6.0       0.0    100         13.00
860N   Oyo Border       ore                    13.9      EAR          6.0       0.0    100         13.00
833    Iwo (Awo Jot)    Iwo Roundabout         4.0       SD           7.3       2.0    30SI         5.44
843    Ikoy4            AkopM an               28.4      EAR          S.8       0.0    703          9.31
925    Ed.              Awo/Osho Obo Jot.       1.7       AC          73        2.0    3009         5.05
846    Asip             Edunaboni               7.8      SD           6.7        1.2    661        13.41
928    Esa-koD           Ea-Odo                 9.0      EAR          9.0        0.0    399         7.00
8S1    am(E)             s O(NE)                1.9      AC           6.S       0.0    103         13.00
104    Uebu-tbes        Ed=no                  8.3       SD           6.0       0.0    300         13.00
855    teshai           Or  Border             50.8      EAR          6.0        0.0    290         15.00
751    teblu/Akur Rd.  tests                   4.0       AC           9.0        0.0    282        13.00
924   lUbu eb0          Mbokun (E)             16.S      EAR          6.S        1.2    S02        1S.87
929    bnd              Ondo Eordxb            21.0      EAR          6.7        1.2    977         6.1S
8585   own-Ne           bnsmile                 7.6      SD           7.0        1.4    5761        3.84
5575   O*hoobo          Oyo S. Border          18.0      EAR          SA        0.0    230          13.00
102    Kia0             Ede                   25.0      EAR           5.3       0.0    357          8.21
855A   Dbmxu            OAhoogbo (5)           16.4      EAR          7.0        1.0    8756        3.00
84m    Iwo RR Ste       Ddb#                   19.3      EAR          4.2       0.0    100         13.00
870    18bajo           imesie                 11.0      EAR          5.9       0.9    299         17.61
871A   Jgbao            Orita he               4.1       EAR          4.8       0.0    100         13.00
8553   IbokUn           OaoSgbo (E)             3.9      SD           7.4        1.5    282         9.09
NWC   Orke              DdSUn                  11.4      SD           7.0        1.5    244         5.00
858    Doeln            lyekU                   6.2      SD           6.2       0.0    444          6.07



- 112 -
AmuRe S-1
Pae4 of 11
819A   bWa OtaoU)   bEa&  Can. (Dubp          1.2       AC          14.6      1.2   IOXO0       tO.QO
818   Ibadaa Ce        ane (W                 2.9       AC          73        1.2   13417        10.00
875    Bdn              Akb                   2.7       AC          6.0       0.0    604         13.00
820    badbn Ceanl      bodaJn )a  m          O.S       AC          7.3       1.2   lQQQO        13.00
IOOB   Yoyl.           Xid                    4.7       SD          6.9       0.0    1241       13.QO
819B  1b 1komml)   b          Ia   n (Du      3.6        AC    7b     3       1.2   10000        9.00
814    Oyo (C          A(da                  4).S       SD          S.5       0.0    20m         8.11
821A  lb_ &aJ.         clods                 30.0      EAR          7.        0.0    "a6        13.00
822    IbadEmaJ.       St Boa DaCbolu         7.8       AC          1.0       0.0    1001        10.08
818    od  Coeiya Junction                    2.9      EAR          6.8       0.0   614          13.00
812  Olan       c       AOko                  7A.0 NEW              5. 0.0    600                13.00
820   ibadan MCl        1d                   12.0       AC          4.5       0.0    600         13.00
176     YaI$n          AXl*ui                 4.ot  33A  S          6.0       0.0    698         13.00
817     b Ayuaaa        b    (Ce1)C           9.2      EAR          7.        0.0    1000       13.00
874    byin  ml        Aik                   61.0      EAR          6.0       0.0    297         13.00
S8IA   JBam  n.a                             2S3.0     am            7.5      0.0    479         13.00
107    Old ae RdB OM 1D Rtd                  34.0      NEW          7.3       0.0    1913        15.00
523    Abe             XMd                   34.9      EAR          7.4       0.0    332         13.00
811    1Okb EmlMnwl                           124.3     AC           .3       20.     697        5.00
17524B   Ada           OAa                   74.5      EAR          7.1       0.0     77         15.00
821B  Id Ayu.          Obdas                 17.0      EAR          6.S       0.0    300         13.00
87459    PPelSa ARd    °8boho                16.0      EAR          6.0       0.0    294         13.00
801B  l a       It aqan                       25.0     EAR          5.3       0.0    479         9.12
521    May Jdib                              56.0       AC          6.0       0.0    200         15.00
810    AbaW             Xlii                 30.6      EAR          5.1       0.0    200         13.00
55t    0gu BoW         F2061Saf Rd.           14A4      SD          6.5       0.0    294         13.00
524D   Ago-Are         Abea                  60.0      BAR          4.4       1.4    89         IS.00
725   dtd               Ew      a             43        AC          73         .5    734    1 5.00
524A   bAlk            Aka                   35.5      EAR          7.1       1.7      77        19.86
816    Ataga           AM                    30.7       SD          5.5       0.0    264         14.79
860    Ob8omobo, (NT)    Oyo/OC   Boot4e     12.9      EAU          6.8       1.5    539         5.00



- 113 -
ha1f11
M  CMST OE MAIEIENO CEReATIN2S
Ma-nt-nan' eOpeatons        unit   Cost Type   Cost (USS$)
Payed Poads
Patig                            sq.m      Fin.        8.20
Econ.        8.90
Resealing                        sq.m      Fin.        2.90
Econ.       3.10
Asphalt Overlay (40mm)           sq.m      Fin.        5.50
Econ.       5.10
Pavement Reconstruction (SD)     sq.m      Fin.        9.50
Econ.       10.10
Basic Routine Maintenance       km./yr.    Fit.       232.00
X______________________        _            BEcon.     246.00
Blading                           km       Fin.       172.80
Econ.       183.20
Spot Regravelling               cu.m.     Fin.         8.90
Econ.       9.40
Surfce Regravelling             cu.m.      Fin.        4.50
Eoon.       4.70
Basic Routine Maintenance       km/yr.    Fin.        232.00
Econ.      246.00



- 114 -
Annexc 5-1
Pag  6 ofS
TABLE 3
r rLQ          CHARACSUBIM  AMD UNr com
1                   ~~ ~ ~~~Car  VUt31t   hda          LnBlu        2A&         LAo         >3-Axle
____k       Thick       1Iuck
Vehle  aracteiscs
Veoic lTpo                 1          4           S           5            8           9           10
Fud Typo                Petol       Petol       Dese        Diesel       Diescl      Diesel       Diesel
Gross Vebicmi VA (tons)  1.10        1.70        2.70        12.70       18.30       26.00        38.00
ESAL                      -           -          0.02        1.50        I.SS         350         6.20
Payload oe)               _          0.30       2.30         2.30        4.S0         6.00        13.00
Drive HP                  30          40         100         100          100         100          210
Bob HP                    17          30         160         160          250         250          S00
Annual Hou Driven        SOO        I,S00       2,000       2,033        I,S00       1,900        2,500
Annual km Driven        50,000      54,000     100,000      122,000     40,000       40,000      77,600
Vehicb Svc Llfea   )      6           5           7           7            9           9            9
No. of TlslVeh.           4           4           4           6           6            10          14
unit code (US$
A. FWAncia CoS
Now Vebiclo            11,939.00   18,855.00   28,500.00   179,620.00   65,000.00   103,339.00   140,3S5.00
Thi                       82.20       96.90       82.20       355.90      267.80       394.10      15S.00
MBahuenance labot           .23         .23        .23          .37         .23          .23          .37
Crown Te                                .23        .23          1.33        .44          .44          .92
Annual Ovwhead ()          -           5.00        S.00        12.00        8.00        10.00       12.00
Annuad Inmtes (%)         17.00       17.00       17.00        17.00       17.00        17.00       17.00
Fudl & LubriantsB lt)  Ptrol  -   .07         Diese FMue    -   .06 [Begne Oil  -   .92
B.         cod$ _  
Nenv Vehice            10,544.00   16,652.00   27,765.00   179,627.00   6S,000.00   103,339.00   140,35S.00
Thres                     74.70       88.10       74.70       323.S0      243.S0       358.30      468.20
Mainenane Labor            .25         .25        .25          .40         .25          .25          .40
Crew Thnm                   .                       .25         1.41        .47          .47          .98
Anuad Overhead (X)        10.00       1S.00       15.00        15.00       1S.00        15.00       15.00
Annual lntere (%)         12.00       12.00       12.00        12.00       12.00        12.00       12.00
Fuel& &b u laOiter)   PWeto   -   .10         D=bs l    -   .08           *oil    _       .90



- 115 -
A=ze 5-1
aEM 7 of 11
TBLE 4
M Al N ll  ANC B ALTE IMAI VES
pAVED ROADS:
AL1T  NULL        -*-hut I      vement which Is mantenance stndard NULI Inludiqg:
Pach 50% of Potholed am  pls Routin Maintenane-Paved Read
ALTI NCMM         *Minlmm   aineane' which i maintenance tanrd MINI includigS:
Patching 100% of the Potoled ar  to a maimm applicable r yss of 9 1I. Reconsuct
whe rughnessxceads 9.0Q tI. New surce: Sufc6 Trm t 15 am thikk. Iniial
roughss 3.0 M. New graular bas 150 mm. Incemet In the Structural Number (SN) 0.8.
RoutieM a inenance - Paved Road.
ALT2 NCD1         *Overay Design 1P which b maintenace andard DESI including:
Patching 100% of poaoled area. Oveday when roughnsu exceeds 4.0 11. Minimum
applicable interl 10 year, Oveday type AC. Stngth Coefficient 0.44. Overly theck     40
-mm. Routine maiac e Paved Road.
ALT3 NCD2         'Oveay Desp 2n  which Is minae sandard DES2 Inclding:
Sam  as above wih Overay thickns of 60 mm.
ALT4 NCD3         'Ovely Desig 3' which ui maintence and        DES3 including:
Sam  as above with Overay thickns of 80 mm.
AL"S CODI         mRscoamuction wit sulfac tretment* which is maintenance staard RECI including:
Reconstot  when roughnes exceeds; 4W. Minimam applcabl interval 10 year. New
suae: surfce teatment New surfin layer thickness 15 mm. Inil rouhm  3.0 MI.
150imm. of grnuar bae. Inrment in the SN 0.8. Routie mainenance Paved Road.
ALI6 COD2         'Recoestructlom with Ashal Concree which a mnnance sandard REC2 Icluin:
Same assbov but e surfac: AC. New surfacing byer thicas 50 mm. Increment to the
SN 1.7. Inld rugss 2.0 RI.
ALT7 NCM2          No Consucio Patch and Ses' which I maintemance sandard bMN2 inclun:
pach 100% of ptholed aea. Rast when total damage are excees 30%. Reconstuct w:.en
toughs excds 9.0131. Minimum applicable interval 10 yeas. Surface type: suace
treatme. New surfciqg layer thickness 15 am. bdtial rouness 3.0 W3. 150 mm grnuar
base. Inmet of the SN 0.8.
ALT  lRJI        'Upgae fiom sigle lan road to dual cnarniway' with construction oPon   l nd   inteance
dsanord MNIN  icu:.
Patching 100% of the pothold ares to maxiwmm appleable roughness of 9131. Reconsruct
whe rounss exes 9.0 M3. New uface: suce treat t 15 mm. thick. Lilal
roughns 3.01RtL  New  graua baseISO mm. Increment  heSN 0.8. Routine
mainten_nce - paved road.



- 116 -
Am= &1
IJNPAVED ROQI:
ALTOMMUP           'Miimum Malneo  Uvpfvd Roadsw    b w          Alomeo tandud WhM  IudW:
RoutMe  OMeitnO UnpavedR*W&na ds~Iudes iunme. vege"tonwsouder, an
udsemummodw.
ALTI UPMI          'Unpave Manmalmae 1' whIc is =ulMeumo aaadm    UPMI lauhadhtg:
Gmadngwherougn ess ezceede1.031.  ""s egaveUleg10%of iateda0Loe  ROAMin
malatmaco far unpaved rash..
ALT7UInG            UiyadMalntonawer vwic  mIlc_ stadard uPI Inaud:
Graivg whe  oughns  ec s 10.01. MLGave esfocg wt   nar maria eve  ewo
ymat         upo 100 tmm tk layer;,niti ru m  5.01RI. RouIe amanem  fo
uV*wd.
ALT3 FMi           'Upade  om _wed to paved road whh Is co.           o  opc 12 anud ulen stndard MINI
Coaattoto upgrad to paveroa th G   Xyear. Psdig100% ofpouhoid arsmaim
appicblroghnessn.0IL   Reolat  wenrugnss.aeDs .01to aacaeals.
Nwlaye thck s           15.00  Mt    ou    s3.0 I    ame Iqethkne   SO0m
Jremr in th SN O.



- 117 -
mm -1
bo9of 11
MMIBLU S
(US Cuts. Ecomomic cast)
,- ---                                                                   - ..   ___  
ICiQ               d      MN       LI       2Li d    l ad    axl  Wesh1o
Good OR[ 25)    8.6    1l2       12.0     69.0   40.7   73.0   101.5        20.9
Pair (II .5)     0.0    14.5    12.4      72.7   S8.9   84.0   116.2        23.7
Poor (fl1 7.7)   1.8    17.8    12.8      77.1   57.3   95.0   131.7        26.9
V.a Poor (IRI 11) 6.0   25.3    14.0      86.0   70.8  112.7   1S6.7        33.2
Pair to good     1.4    2.4      0.4       3.7    8.2   11.0    14.7         2.8
Poor to good     3.2     5.7     0.8       8.1   16.6   22.0    30.2         6.0
V.y poor to good  7.4    13.2    2.0      17.0   30.1   39.7    55.2        12.3
Exchng raft at the tim of data anldysis was US$1.0=NIO.0



- 118 -
lAW~A2
pate 10 of I11
TSX6
PRPOE PIRITY ROADs PROG)RAM DIN OYO SAE
_          _    _    _     _          =      'Su_ _-                     m                   *_!
Link           Road Section           Lengt     Snrfaeo      ADT        Proposed     Eoomic&  Estimoatd
No.                                   (M)       Type A/    (1M)          Woit        Rat of    Bas Cost
-                             -       ________   ___________     ~~~~~~~    ~~~~Retumn  (US$)
818       Dugbo-Oke Ado-Molst           2.9       AC        13,417      Overlay       >150        0.73
[Ibadan CentualXbadan (West)J
820       Dugbe-Old obasl-eiw          2.7        AC        10,000      Overy         >IS0        0.68
ibadan (CetAl)-hadn In.
(Bern)_
819B        Adamangba-Dugbe             O.S        AC       10,000       Ovelay         119        0.30
[badau (Mokala)4badan
(Dugbe)]           _
8768         Agodi Gat- Molet           6.0        AC          698       Oveay          42         1.50
[Ibidan (Gate)-lbadan (Mol.t)]                  _
814      Oyo (Cenal)-Ainmoin            4.7       SD        2,090       Rehab.         116        0.2S
822     lbadan Jn.-Dagbolub-  Bdr.     41.5       SD        1,961        Reseal        102        2.40
874            Jsyin-aIye              50.0      sew          S97      Consdt           70        10.00
1OOB         Budo Ibruba-Kisbi         11.1       EAR        1,241        Pave          72         1.64
801B           auiF-lbo-Ora            34.3        AC         479       wclaID          31         S.00
'!oyi If*-Ahoro Daa-Iding.     60.0       EAR         722         Pave          42         8.90
Undefined gI            17.0    EAR/SD               _ Rehab.                      2.40
High Volume Gavel Roads 4/    1SO.0      EAR        100-200      Rehab.         28         3.00
Ltow Voune Unpaved Roads      100.0      EAR        < 100      Spot iipr        iS        0.S5
Mantenance by Contract                            _                                     2.00
Totat       480.7                                             53        39.35
V   AC - A~Im*CinuftU
SD - 9Wao Dmuin -0 asodmloom_X
BAR - ENOWGrad
EnR eatsd frm link 1005 in, patiom do ur asfi vobma
Sabjeg t ecmmlsj uaftdihd
gI  1. Mowing roads will be - arPk is.dawagwviii dun fr induiain him rgrn baudon- samnls juuflat
CkObW tgb *a.Babe Od 09 
0iZ     Z..       4      dZ(45 b*
@)    _A9"-;.w*Q idI A 



- 119 -
~Annex 5--
Ve 11 of 11
TABLE 7
__ _      E_      _ PR=RAS PROGRAM IN    STATE
Link           Road Section           Lengh    Surfc         ADT      Poposed   lconomic   Estiated
No.                                   (Cm)      Type I      (1992)     Wors        Rate of    Base Cost
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ _    Retun       (USS)
aE         gcbu-Jesa-a  Otan-11I        18.0       SD          758    Resuraci       8          1.11
930          Osogbo Bye Pass           8.0        New        3,500    Conaruct       72         3.49
864            Ada-Ibkiun              12.0       AC         1,662    Ovelay         53         0.72
8S52A         esa (SU)liewa             19.0       SD         1,552    RewrEfae      52         o.9
867A            lare-Pbolun              5.5      EAR          299       Pave        42         0.99
103          Ei8boAa-rAEde             3S.0      EAR           S9      Pave        38         4.55
846          Asipa-Edunabon             7.8       SD          917      Rooa         30          0.30
928          Es-Oke-Esa,-Odo            9.0      EAR           399      Pave         28         1.33
923     Ibokhm-Orita Ido Minasi / |   10.0       EAR           479      Pave         34         1.38
.bisa-AsbeyeEwosin         152       EAR          1,225     Pave         26         1.90
870    lgbjo-lmeui-Ue Ondo St. Bdr.    18.0      EAR           250      Pave         19         2.25
102             Kuta-Ede               12.0      EAR           3C0      Pave         37         1.50
843   Apomo-Orle Owu-Arromi-Owu        32.0      EAR           585      Pa           32         4.00
Osogbo-lbkun lmesi          32.0      EAR          350       PAve         16        4.00
Undefined /             29.0     SDIAC                  R6bab.                   3.00
tHigh Volume Gravel Roads £1  150.0      EAR        100.200     Rehab.       28         3.00
Low Volme Unpaved R"ds        100.0      EAR        < 100    Spot impr       15        0.55
Maitance by Contrat                              .         .                          2.00
Total                512.5                                         32        37.00
AC -A*a Caa
SD - Sudacs Drew ping saWul now*"
EAR  a Erdimd
ERR ehuted fiom in M in piOe to to trafil ve
Mim foaoiaw rade wInbe cmulderda  wla di.a her inobmian in 0* prqwm b   anedcono.mic juaifna
AkWnalbsp               (7k*
WI&I _ s                   (7ko)
3"d"Baw S1     Q   m       (21W
(IV)    baim-EbhuIAM           ( 8 ha
(V)     lb-FPAM                (IS hk
(VI     0y14b Oran.            (14b S
(.1     b8IEgbea                (5kw
(i     DBuba4edoSL Bordr 5)b (O



120 -
A=6-
SECOND ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ U,o l1
DQoumet AvaiAbe In PXject Fil
1.    M_R bus              Ru  FM _   Te   meorch and Develomnt
Pmdton« (IRDF) & Feft  Wisty of Worh ant Housfg :MWH), June 1992.
2.    Roa Usw    _ d Ag La    _  Daf FindI Report Fdota  Mdnity of
Wd and Houdag, ald Loo Begro     tal  be., May IM9.
3.              =4I*ZjM            =o   g    A m    n  Abiao
zad ~    I Ded 9et o£oefC aonr. hous     n-Aw    Report Svren Herte
(RD) inwt Oluwjdi Olgb1   (Coh), Ausut 1M9.
4.    Mkw           Eimult  _aeok Al Ross, Ross Silcock Paruehp, Jima
M92.



MAP SECTION



('I 1A1.)
~~~~~~~~~N I GJ  R v
RURKINA                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chad
I S/\V   IK;T    ~~~~~SOKOTO               Ymo    IGAWAffff        YOBE          9t 
r  o2   X fv  _   Ir S  v  KANO   V  < g  \  . | B.
J < gA < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAMAT7UR
BE[NIN                               KAD {UNA    \\    t1rf                                   -
8< > ~~~~~~~~~~~BAUCHI t1i
/ X Nl(;ERt MINNN GFR                                              ADAiMlAWA  <  . 
h OYO                 C , toA   se P.t
G Ie (OSUN3>  4    K Cl  l,    M^xuRa ~)  JARABA    \/y  MULTI-STATE
.  J    ,  t      J    -DO    ED    BENUE                        r     ROADS PROJECT ff
AOCUUN                                    _> NOXEo//Project States
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~CT                     ENG                                   1: S  /  OIFCrSITAES 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .nm                         . ofE  T    IRM WbtfdRIKR    RMRS
Cesfi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n #c*             . theM *. T         tNTfRNATIONALBOCUNDARtf[S
m          \ <       9     p  Lf >                   < I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mlTff Rt , 0   0 1.1IUt
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r Ws                                                 _ 



3a00'  3°30'                                            NNIGER
NIGERIA                                                                jf 'GM o
MULTI - STATE ROADS PROJECT 11
OYO STATE
PROJECr ROAD LINCS 
9.30,-                                PRIMARY ROADS                                            9.30,
SECONDARY ROADS
,      RAILROAD                                                                                                               CAMERO
_ RIVERS                                  1r
0     STATE CAPITAL
STATE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
4<00                                       430'
KWA RA                                              GlldO\   '/
z
8*00*                                                            @                XS                      /' /                                 \
0                 20              4                          \>0g RIIQMTSEESb\irr
Z   )          Cf                 ~~~~~~~                      ~~Ik or r  A69.gcgo                             C        
1  p                                         .
L30'                                                                                                                         D.& sio botObS_   _t   0  ;  < 300'
OGUN                    t   f)  W q t \                                           OSU
O           }           20           30          40 MILES                                 
0   20             40              fa01a~~-o rLOMuERS                                                                              8.
00'                                                                                                          t        *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 0'-
J~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Tlb_-_*30- ' 



NIGER                     aEAE          4305
L /d                      >                      >NIGERIA
MULTI - STATE ROADS PROJECT II
BENIN 89"' 41'  S X   V                f                                            OSUN STATE
04oe   r40. C                                                                        K WAR A
-8-W~~                                                                                                     ~~~ |-hl.-hOmVlns
ovo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y 
70~~~~~~~~~1
70 O              10 25-l11o                                                                    ST.AT   NAS
Tf *./d-d                                                          />            }     >   icl 
-710 \ N /aA 15            20          3OI( OMEflS
ToloeX4Xi(. 1.OND O
INENAINA  OUNDRIE
-7&1.l-S        000.W    7o81o   h0'000                                                         .  1.000 0. 0 1  00101
0~ A ) \ . ) I 0 . 0oAip yiza X o 0(0wn01lo~00o01.do, lRoO                                         U
X  '  J   \ o;>ot  itH    /  WA]  A   AA~~~~~~~~~SECNDAR WAD
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41
t_--\\,bAu   \   \    X   HAIuli-Erilql[  flA    n       /~~~~SATEBOLNMIE
4-00,v                              4'\                   0  
I~ ~ ~ 1                                            -



