WFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 2485 UNI
Project Agreement
(Second Multi-State Roads Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
OSUN STATE OF NIGERIA
Dated     vl                   , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2485 UNI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1993, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and OSUN
STATE OF NIGERIA (Osun State).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty one
million   four    hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 61,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Osun State
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by  a Subsidiary   Loan  Agreement  (the  Osun  State
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and
Osun State, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent to Osun State
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Osun State Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Osun State, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Osun State declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project with due diligence and


﻿-2-
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and road maintenance practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A, B,
C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon Osun State's
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, Osun State shall:
(i)   provide in its annual budget amounts satisfactory
to the Association sufficient to cover: (A) Osun
State's counterpart contributions to the costs of
the Project, and (B) all recurrent costs for the
routine maintenance of state roads such amount
not to be less than $750,000 equivalent per year;
(ii)   open and maintain an account in a commercial bank
(the Osun State Project Account) to be used
exclusively for expendi%.res under the Project;
(iii)   deposit into the Osun State Project Account an
initial amount equival,nt to $270,000; and
(iv)   thereafter, deposit in the Osun State Project
Account each month an amount equivalent to
$270,000.
(c)   Osun State shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and thereafter maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the
Osun State Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Osun State Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Osun State shall: (i) ensure that an
increasing share of road maintenance works to be performed under the
Project (up to about 70% of all maintenance works carried out by the
fifth year of Project execution) are carried out by contractors
through contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Associati .
concluded between Osun State and said contractors; (ii) formulate a
manpower development action plan for SMOW staff to be agreed upon
with the Association; and (iii) promptly implement said action plan
as agreed upon with the Association.


﻿3-
(c)   Osun State shall not undertake: (i) any investment for
roads estimated to cost more than $4,000,000 equivalent; or (ii) any
investment for roads to be financed under the Project which shows an
economic rate of return of less than 12%, unless each such
investment has been reviewed and agreed upon with the Association.
(c)   Osun  State  shall: (i) assess the impact on      the
environment of road works to be undertaken under the Project, and
design appropriate measures required to adequately address any
environmental concern that may arise during the execution of the
Project; and (ii) promptly implement appropriate environmental
protection measures as agreed upon with the Association.
(d)   Osun State shall: (i) assist the Borrower as required to
prepare and carry out the annual review, the mid-term review and the
periodic reports referred to in Section 3.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement; (ii) reassess periodically in agreement with the
Association the rate of the various road users charges with a view
to adjusting them as required to ensure an adequate financing of the
recurrent costs to be incurred by Osun State for road maintenance;
(iii) carry out by June 30, 1995 the axle load survey referred to
under Part C.2 (b) of the Project; (iv) review with the Association
the results and recommendations of said survey as soon as they are
available; and (v) promptly implement the recommendations agreed
upon with the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Osun State shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and
Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project.
Section  2.05. Osun   State   shall  duly  perform  all  its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, Osun State shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Osun State Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. (a) Osun State shall, at the request of the
Borrower or the Association, exchange views with the Borrower and
the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B, C.1, C.2
and C.3 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Osun State Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   Osun State shall promptly inform the Borrower and the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by Osun State of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Osun State Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Osun State shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the
Project of the departments or agencies of Osun State responsible for
carrying out Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project.
(b)   Osun State shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section (including those
for the Osun State Special Account) for each
fiscal   year   audited,   in  accordance   with
appropriate   auditing  principles  consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the


﻿-5-
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at    least  one  year  after  the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records   and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Osun State thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the  date  on  which   the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the  date 25 years after the     date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Osun
State of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Osun State:
The Honourable Commissioner
Ministry of Works, Lands and Physical
Planning
PMB 4308
Osogbo, Osun State
Nigeria
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Osun State, or by Osun State on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the State Commissioner responsible for works or such
other person or persons as the State Commissioner responsible for
works shall designate in writing, and Osun State shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                  (      j \kp3c-V&-1 --' ' n ~C0
Regional Vice President
Africa
OSUN STATE OF NIGERIA
Byized R
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines, except that for works to be
carried out during the first year of Project execution bidders may
be postqualified as provided for in paragraph 2.57 of the
Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works and goods
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $500,000 or more for civil works and $100,000 or more for goods.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, Osun State may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than $500,000
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$4,600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of selective tendering, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 10 -
3.    Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $400,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of prudent shopping.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Osun State Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Osun State Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.


﻿- 11 -
Section II: Employment of.Consultants
In order to assist Osun State in carrying out the Project,
Osun State shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(b),
(2)(b), (3)(b) and (4)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $ 1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower  shall   furnish  to  the   Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 13 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph      3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount  of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and
C.3 of the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and
C.3 of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible


﻿- 14 -
Categories for Parts A, B, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association : (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


