Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE  COPY
Report No. P-2769-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
April 9, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their ofliial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discled without World Dank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won
Until January 11, 1980
Won 485        -   $1.00
Won 1,000      -   $2.062
Won 1 million  =   $2,062
From January 11, 1980
Won 580        -   $1.00
Won 1,000      -   $1.724
Won I million       $1,724
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
CTC     -   Centralized Traffic Control
EPB     -   Economic Planning Board
FFYP    -   Fourth Five-Year Plan
KAL     -   Korean Airlines
KDB     -   Korean Development Bank
KfW     -   Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (Germany)
KFX     -   Korea Foreign Exchange
KIST    -   Korea Institute of Science and Technology
KMPA    -   Korea Maritime and Port Authority
KNR     -   Korean National Railroad
MOC     -   Ministry of Construction
MOHA    -   Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT     -   Ministry of Transportation
OECF    -   Overseas Economic Cooperative Fund (Japan)
OSROK   -   Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
SMESRS  -   Seoul Metropolitan Electric Suburban Railway System
TCC     -   Transport Coordination Committee
TCO     -   Transport Coordination Office
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:              The Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:           The Korean National Railroad (KNR)
Amount:                 $94 million equivalent
Terms:                 The loan would be for a term of 17 years, including
4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
Prolect Description:  The project focuses on the goals set jointly with
Government for Bank participation in the sector, namely
to increase the capacity of the transport system in the
most economically efficient way and to develop and
strengthen the institutions dealing with the transport
sector. The main component of the project is the
1980-81 part of KNR's 1977-81 investment plan which
aims at: (a) initiating the institutional changes
necessary to gradually transform KNR into a public
corporation; (b) providing KNR with the capacity
required to meet forecast traffic; and (c) reducing
operating and maintenance costs. The proposed loan
will finance rails, track maintenance equipment, break-
down cranes, passenger cars, freight cars, workshop
equipment, technical assistance and training. The
project will enable KNR to move increasing quantities
of bulk commodities and passengers on routes for which
the railways remain the most economic mode of trans-
port, thus realizing sizeable savings in transport
costs to the entire economy. The main area of risk
for railway projects is traffic forecasting. However,
in Korea's rapidly growing economy, it is unlikely
that the shortfall, if any, will be significant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                                              Proposed
Local  Foreign  Total    loan
KNR Investments                                  ---       (US$ million) ---
New line construction (industrial sidings)  12.64             -   12.64
Increase in station and line capacity          131.70   30.19  161.89           -
Way and structures                              37.10   18.35   55.45    18.35
Motive power and rolling stock                  110.16   68.65  178.81    53.85
Motive power and rolling stock
repair facilities                             19.42    3.22   22.64        2.08
Miscellaneous (including telecommunica-
tions, power facilities, housing and
hospitals, technical assistance and
training)                                     14.05    8.05   22.10        1.90
Subtotal                                  325.07  128.46  453.53    76.18
Contingencies (physical and price)             118.33   26.61  144.94    12.02
Total KNR                                 443.40  155.07  598.47    88.20
Training and technical assistance for the
Government                                           -    5.80    5.80       5.80
GRAND TOTAL                               443.40  160.87  604.27    94.00
Financing Plan:                                        Local  Foreign  Total
-- (US$ million) --        %
Foreign Currency Requirements
Proposed Bank loan                  -    94.0    94.0   15.6
US Export-Import Bank/
Commercial Banks                  -      8.0     8.0    1.3
Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (Japan), or other
foreign source                    -     5.0      5.0    0.8
Korean Foreign Exchange,
or foreign source                 -    38.0    38.0    6.3
Korea Exchange Bank                 -    15.8    15.8    2.6
Local Currency Requirements
Government and KNR              443.4        -   443.4   73.4
Total                     443.4   160.8   604.2  100.0
Estimated                                                        1981   1982   1983
Disbursements:  Bank Fiscal Year                               -- (US$ million) -
Annual                                     52.0   37.5    4.5
Cumulative                                 52.0   89.5   94.0
Rate of Return: The weighted average economic return on the capacity increas-
ing investments and on way and structure renewals is 22%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 2770, dated April 1, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $94 million to help finance
the seventh railway project. The total project cost is estimated at $604
million equivalent of which the foreign exchange component is expected to
amount to about $160 million equivalent. The remainder of the foreign
exchange expenditure will be met through borrowing from other foreign
sources. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years of
grace, with interest at 8.25% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Rapid Growth and Search
for New Perspectives" was distributed under cover of SecM79-390, dated May 24,
1979. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Developments
3.        During 1977 and 1978, the growth of GNP in real terms outstripped
the target of 9.5% p.a. postulated in the Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81).
As a result of a rapid increase in domestic demand, the rate of increase of
real GNP accelerated from 10.3% in 1977 to 11.6% in 1978. For the first
time in many years, the increase in domestic demand for manufactured goods
exceeded the increase in manufactured exports. This increase in domestic
demand, fueled by substantial increases in private construction and
equipment investment, resulted in capacity shortages for some essential
items, and a speculative investment mood. For the first time, a shortage of
certain types of skilled labor became a matter of greater concern than
unemployment, which declined substantially during 1978. For the third year
in a row, there was a substantial increase in real wages in the manu-
facturing sector, which was in excess of the increase in labor productivity.
There was also an increase in the rate of inflation; during 1978, the
wholesale prices increased by about 12% as compared to 9% in 1977, and
consumer prices increased by about 14%, compared to a 10% increase in 1977.
/1 This section is identical to the corresponding one in the President's
Report on the Higher Technical Education Loan (No. P-2694-KO, dated
January 30, 1980), which was distributed under cover of R80-15 of the
same date.



- 2 -
4.        Exports continued to grow according to the Fourth Plan targets,
but after increasing by 43% in 1976 and 26% in 1977, the real growth of
goods and services slowed to 18% in 1978. On the other hand, as a result of
a substantial increase in the demand for imported capital goods, total
imports increased more rapidly than exports, resulting in a sizeable trade
deficit. However, overseas construction activity continued to expand
rapidly during 1978, increasing from $3.5 billion in 1977 to $8.1 billion in
1978. Although the receipts from these contracts resulted in a substantial
surplus in the invisible account, a current account deficit of about
$1 billion emerged as compared with the surplus of about $12 million
in 1977. However, in view of the need to promote allocative efficiency and to
counter domestic inflationary pressures, the Government initiated in 1978 a
far-reaching program of import liberalization. Korea's access to inter-
national capital markets improved considerably enabling the repayment, ahead
of schedule, of large amounts of short-term loans incurred on hard terms
during 1974/75 when the economy faced the twin shocks of rapidly rising prices
of its major imports, particularly petroleum and foodgrains, as well as the
international recession.
Major Trends and Economic Policy for 1979
5.        Economic policy for 1979 was formulated on the premise that infla-
tion and rapid increases in wages were weakening the international competi-
tiveness of Korean exports which could jeopardize sustained rapid economic
growth. Hence, the major emphasis was on stabilization. The stabilization
program has four major components. First, the tight monetary and fiscal
policy designed to reduce excess liquidity in the economy. Secondly, measures
designed to correct structural imbalances caused by inflation. These include
the adjustment of investment priorities in favor of the industries producing
necessities for domestic consumption, the encouragement of non-grain produc-
tion in agriculture, investment to modernize the marketing and distribution
network, and greater investment in public transportation. Thirdly, measures
specifically designed to create greater competition in the economy, including
the deregulation of prices on a large number of commodities, the removal of
barriers to entry of new firms in some industries, and accelerated import
liberalization. In addition, a set of measures designed to assist the poorest
segments of the population who had been hardest hit by price increases were
introduced which include the expansion of public work programs, the exemption
from the payment of tuition by children of low-income families and some direct
cash payments. Although the effects on the economy of this last set of
measures are not anti-inflationary, the Government considered them necessary
for reasons of equity.
6.        While the stabilization program has had considerable success in
containing domestically generated inflation, it has been overwhelmed by the
increase in import prices, particularly of oil. During the first eight months
of 1979, wholesale food prices increased by 6% and wholesale consumer goods
prices by 9%, but the price of raw materials, which are mainly imported,
increased by 34% and the price of capital goods by 12%. The Government has
boldly combined its stabilization efforts with a reduction of price controls



- 3 -
and removed most of the suppressed inflation which had been built up. Most
government-administered prices were increased to realistic levels, including
transport rates, coal prices, petroleum product prices and those of a range of
industrial products. Consequently, wholesale prices are expected to increase
by around 25% and consumer prices by about 22% in 1979, which would be more
than double the targeted figures.
7.        As was to be expected, the Government's stabilization policies have
had some impact on output and employment. But exogenous factors such as a
weakening of the world economy and an increase in protectionism in the
developed countries have exacerbated the problems resulting from a weakening
of Korea's export competitiveness. While the momentum of economic growth in
1978 continued into 1979, a substantial increase in inventories in the
early part of the year was a symptom of the impending slackening of economic
growth. Furthermore, there has been a deterioration in its terms of trade
in the current year due to higher import prices. However, the pragmatic and
effective measures the Government has taken appear to be paying off. The
upsurge in imports seems to be decelerating, resulting in no small measure
from the Government's energy conservation measures which are proving to be
effective. Exports, on the other hand, are proving to be rather more buoyant
in the latter part of the year and it is expected that export value will be
close to the target of $15.5 billion. As a result of the substantial increase
in the value of imports, it is expected that the trade deficit would be of the
order of $4 billion. However, as a result of a surplus of about $1 billion in
invisible trade, the current account deficit would be about $3 billion,
representing about 6% of GNP. The financing of this should be manageable.
Longer-Term Prospects
8.        There appears to be a consensus that Korea should continue to pursue
the high growth path, that greater stress should be placed on social develop-
ment and that there was a need to effect greater financial liberalization and
to free the private sector from the reins of Government control. The mainte-
nance of a high growth rate is essential if Korea is to achieve the objectives
of greater equity, of ensuring that the fruits of rapid development are
available to the mass of the people. However, at the new threshold at which
the Korean economy has arrived, there is a need to redirect efforts towards
reconciling growth with equity. In order to achieve a better rural/urban
balance, the Government has reiterated its support of the rural development
programs, the generation of off-farm employment opportunities and of programs
to improve agricultural productivity. For interpersonal equity, more
resources would have to be devoted to the educational sector with increased
emphasis on improving the lower income group's access to the system. As
indicated earlier, to help the poor, the Government has moved to strengthen
programs focussed directly on the target groups and away from the former
reliance on general subsidies, whose effects tend to be relatively diffused.
9.        Since the early sixties, Korea's pace of urbanization has been one
of the highest among the developing countries. In the early phases of its
growth process, Korea economized on social and urban development expenditures,



- 4 -
particularly in transportation and housing. With the rapid growth of
household incomes and the concentration of population in the major urban
centers, the demand for urban services is rising rapidly. The Government is,
therefore, giving greater emphasis to programs for providing increasing
housing, particularly for the low-income groups, and for dealing with the
problems of urban transportation. The Bank hopes to play a role in support of
these programs.
10.        A further dimension to the problem of harmonizing growth with
reasonable price stability and equity is the need to review the whole nexus of
policies connected with credit, the interest rate structure, subsidies,
resource mobilization, capital market development and financial liberaliza-
tion. These aspects are being reviewed by the Bank's financial sector
mission, which has just returned from the field.
11.        Although the assassination of President Park could be construed as
the end of an era, the demonstrated dynamism and resilience of the Korean
economy, the diligence of its labor force, the efficiency of its economic
managers and entrepreneurs, and the massive investment in the last two
years, all combine to suggest that Korea will be able to tackle its emerging
problems and sustain its rapid growth in the eighties notwithstanding the
change in leadership. The rapidly increasing and skilled labor force, the
potential to raise productivity by adopting new and advanced technology and
the shift of labor from traditional sectors where productivity is low to the
modern sectors where productivity is high provide the sources of growth in
the eighties. Furthermore, although the international economic environment
is somewhat unfavorable, Korea continues to exploit the opportunities to
expand trade and other forms of economic activities wherever these could be
found and is seeking to complement its external activities by undertaking
improvements in housing, mass transportation, education and health services,
which some Korean economists refer to as "the second engine of growth."
External Capital Requirements
12.        Despite the strong possibility that the growth rate of GNP will be
slower than was originally forecast for 1979 and 1980, the external capital
requirements during the period will be markedly higher than originally
expected. Amortization requirements are estimated to be about $1.5 billion in
1979 and $1.7 billion in 1980. Allowing for the augmentation of its foreign
exchange reserves (about $1 billion annually), the gross requirements of
external capital will be about $5.5 billion in 1979 and $5.7 billion in 1980,
assuming that current account deficits of about $3 billion will be incurred in
each of the years. Taking into account committed but undisbursed medium and
long-term loans, new commitments of about $5-6 billion would be required in
each of the years.
13.        While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from the
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans
and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond market and is expected to
derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from such sources,



- 5 -
the magnitude of these external capital requirements is such that it will
have to continue to rely on considerable capital inflows from official
sources, including Eximbanks. It should, however, be emphasized that the
higher anticipated levels of external capital inflow (relative to the Fourth
Plan targets) are a consequence of its higher investment rates rather than a
shortfall in the domestic savings rate. Thus, about 90% of Korea's
investment will continue to be financed from domestic savings. The ratio of
foreign savings to GNP is expected to decline in the eighties, following the
restructuring and readjustment planned for the next three years. Servicing
of the debt should not pose difficulties given the present debt service
ratio and the continuing emphasis on export growth, provided that the
proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest
rates is not excessive. The projected ratio of debt service payments to
total export earnings is expected to remain in the range of 12-15% up to the
mid-eighties, and to decline steadily thereafter.
14.       On January 12, 1980, the Government announced the following
measures: the devaluation of the Won from 485 to 580 Won to the US$, an
upward adjustment of the one year time deposit interest rate from 18.6% to
24% and of the prime interest rate from 18.5% to 24.5%. An evaluation of
the impact of these measures on Korea's current and prospective economic
situation will be included in the forthcoming report of an economic mission
which visited Korea in February/March 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       As of December 31, 1979, Korea had received 47 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,671.2 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinacing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$814.3 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory.
16.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life
in the rural areas.



17.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's three major development
banks. The Korea Development Finance Corporation has received $320.0 million,
the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank $145 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. The
primary beneficiaries of these loans have not been the development banks, but
the industrial enterprises, ranging from large ventures to small ones, which
have been provided with financing through the financial intermediaries. This
has resulted not only in the overall development of the industrial sector, but
has also contributed to the achievement of institutional improvements and of
the Government's objective of decentralizing industry. The loan of $80
million for a Heavy Machinery Project was intended to assist in achieving the
structural shift to more skill-intensive industries, which is necessary to
ensure the long-term viability of Korea's export strategy. A recently
approved loan of $29 million by the Bank would stimulate and support the
development of technological capabilities in the Korean electronics industry.
18.       As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industriali-
zation has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's
efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has
played an important role in these developments. Some $340 million has been
provided for six railway projects designed to increase the railroad's capacity
and improve its operations; four loans totalling $334.5 million have been made
for highway construction and paving of high priority sections of the national
network and for a countrywide maintenance organization; and two loans amount-
ing to $147 million have been provided for the expansion of port facilities at
Busan, the premier port, and Mugho, primarily for improving coal handling
facilities.
19.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs within
agriculture, fisheries, industry and services.
20.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen agri-
cultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in the
country's becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made
possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the
40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on
agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for
the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the



provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. Recently a $125 million loan was providee by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water in
the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage; and
generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea's power
system.
21.        The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region. A loan of $65 million for a second project for the devel-
opment of the region was approved by the Executive Directors on September 11,
1979, and declared effective on February 15, 1980.
22.        Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
December 31, 1979, entered into 26 commitments, totalling $68.1 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
23.        A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing. The maturity of many of
the Korean institutions suggests that it would be appropriate to adopt a
sector lending approach in some areas. The basic issue is whether Korea can
deepen and diversify its industrial structure to the extent necessary to
ensure the attainment of its export targets. Lending to industry will be
diversified by the provision of the proposed loan to the Citizens National
Bank in support of the small enterprises as well as a loan for a second
machinery project, which will provide financial and technical assistance to
small- and medium-scale machinery industries. It will also be necessary to
introduce RD&E programs which are better adapted to the technological needs
of industrial development. In addition to the loan for the Electronics
Technology Project which was approved on March 22, 1979, a loan for the
technological development of technology-intensive industries is envisaged in
the lending program.
24.        Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. The
recently approved loan for higher technical education will contribute to the
modernization and improvement of the system of higher technical education so
as to increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing
requirements of the economy.



- 8 -
25.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by the
diversification and expansion of the ouput of the agricultural sector and
through nationwide development programs. Projects are envisaged for land/
water resource development, for agricultural credit, marketing and processing,
for low-income housing, and for the further development of rural infrastruc-
ture and facilities in selected provincial areas, which would enhance incomes
and quality of life in the lesser developed regions of the country and would
have a significant impact on the problem of migration to the major metropoli-
tan areas.
26.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed lending program. Greater empha-
sis will be given to urban transportation, in view of the emerging problems of
urban congestion, particularly in the main metropolitan areas.
27.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1978 was about 10%, and its share of debt ser-
vice was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are expected to
increase to around 13% and 7%, respectively, by the mid-eighties.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
28.       The fundamental changes in Korea's economy in the past decade were
accompanied by significant changes in the transport sector. The railway
system, which had been rehabilitated following the Korean War and remained for
many years the only means of large-scale movement of goods and passengers, has
lost its preponderant position in relative terms but both freight and
passenger traffic have continued to grow in absolute terms. A diversified
road transport network has been developed and paved roads more than quadrupled
during the decade. The share of coastal goods transport in total traffic has
also increased markedly, primarily due to the movement of oil products. The
country's export drive and reliance on foreign trade has led to a sixfold
increase in the volume of port traffic and an eightfold increase in Korea's
international shipping fleet.
29.       The basic sector strategy has been and continues to be, to increase
the capacity of the system fast enough to avoid bottlenecks that would
decelerate the growth of the economy. To this end, the Government has been
allocating regularly, since the beginning of the Second Plan in 1967, about
one quarter of its total capital expenditure to expand and modernize trans-
port infrastructure. Investments have been concentrated on the Seoul-Busan
axis where most industrial development is taking place and on corridors to
the northeastern part of Korea to serve the country's coal mines and cement
plants. The Fourth Plan investment allocation for the transport sector is



- 9 -
Won 2,784 billion ($5.7 billion), about half to be invested by the public
sector mainly for highway, railways, and ports and the other half by the
private sector, primarily for road vehicles and ships. Actual investment
and budgets for 1977 to 1979 indicate that implementation is about 10% to 15%
behind the Plan target.
30.       Other major sectoral objectives have been to constantly improve the
efficiency with which the transport system is used, and to establish insti-
tutions to plan, construct, maintain, and operate the system efficiently.
The Bank has played a very active role in advising and assisting the Korean
authorities in pursuing these objectives and establishing such institutions as
the Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) in the Ministry of Construction and the Korea
Maritime and Port Authority (KMPA), and in strengthening the Korean National
Railroad (KNR). Bank lending to the sector includes $340 million for six
railway projects designed to increase capacity and improve operations;
$334.5 million for four highway projects to construct and pave high priority
sections of the national and provincial networks and to establish a country-
wide maintenance organization; and $147 million for two port projects to
expand and modernize facilities at Busan, the country's premier port, and at
Mukho, primarily to improve coal handling facilities.
31.       For many years, the transport system has been strained by the
demands of rapid economic growth. As a result, and to ensure that develop-
ment priorities were reflected in the allocation of scarce transportation
means among competing claims, the Government established fairly tight regu-
lations in the sector. Licensing regulations in the road subsector are
restrictive and tariffs for all modes are set by Government. Now that the
system is more developed and also more complex, these regulations should be
relaxed to allow the market to determine the most appropriate levels of
service and tariffs. The Bank has maintained a dialogue with Korea on sector
legislation, mainly through highway projects, and on tariff adjustments,
mainly through railway and port projects; it has also contributed to a better
analysis of investments in the entire sector and to transport coordination in
general. The new trend in the Economic Planning Board (EPB) is for further
liberalization of the economy in general, but there is still a strong
preference among many agencies for retaining as much control as possible.
Through its lending operations in the sector, the Bank will continue pressing
the issue of allowing greater flexibility in the use of the transport system
and in tariff setting, as well as assist Government in investment planning
analysis. The major features of the transport system (illustrated in the
attached Map) are summarized below.
32.       Road Transport.  The present highway system is still inadequate to
cope with the rapid growth of road transport, despite the Government's
efforts since 1968 to catch up with the backlog of necessary improvements.
Only about 60% of the national highways, 8% of the provincial roads and 3%
of the county roads are paved. This situation will require a continued
high level of investment. While road transport of freight and passengers
grew rapidly over the last decade, the motor vehicle fleet in Korea is still



- 10 -
small when compared with other countries of similar and even lower income
levels. There are many reasons why Korea's vehicle fleet is small: the
high taxation of private cars, the restrictive licensing of commercial
vehicles, the high cost of locally manufactured vehicles, and the recent
development of the road network.   However, the vehicle fleet is growing
rapidly and one of the most important issues now faced by Government in the
transport sector is to determine the appropriate role of private (automobile)
and public transport. While the private car (and taxis) offer a versatile and
economic way to meet transport demand in rural areas and small towns, their
uncontrolled use in the larger cities would create congestion and require
massive investments and space. The Government is pursuing its policy to
restrict ownership and use of private cars. The cost of the smallest car is
about $5,600 which includes 40% in taxes; the annual licensing fee is around
$200, and the price of regular gasoline was increased to $4 per gallon in
January 1980.
33.       Ports and Shipping.  Freight traffic through the ports has
increased from about 13 million tons in 1966 to over 110 million tons in
1978. This tremendous increase resulted in serious port capacity problems,
particularly at Busan, the largest port, which handles 20% of the country's
external trade. The Bank has assisted development in Busan through two port
projects, and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) is financing the expansion of
Incheon, the port nearest to Seoul. The Saudi Fund for Development partici-
pated in the financing of the First Port Project (Loan 917-KO). The Govern-
ment has also proceeded to develop a number of specialized ports serving
specific industrial sites, e,g. Bugpyeong for cement, Pohang for steel, Ulsan
for oil and petrochemicals, Onsan for nonferrous metals, Changwon for heavy
industry and Samil for fertilizer and petrochemical.
34.       The role of coastal shipping has greatly increased in the last
decade from 10% of the ton-km moved in Korea in 1966 to 27% in 1978, due to
the construction of industrial complexes at coastal locations, and, Korea's
share in the merchant shipping of its external trade has been increasing to
reach about 50% of total tonnage in 1978.
35.       Aviation.  Although domestic air passenger traffic grew rapidly
until 1973, it still amounts to less than 1% of total passenger-km; airfreight
is also negligible. Domestic routes are served by the privately owned
Korean Airlines (KAL), which also operates internationally. Most inter-
national traffic is handled at the Seoul-Kimpo International Airport; other
international airports are at Busan and at Jeju Island, a major tourist
center.
36.       Railways.  Korea's transport system is now evolving into a more
balanced multi-modal system in which different traffic modes complement each
other according to their technical and economic characteristics. Cost
comparisons indicate that rail transport is still the most economic means of
moving bulk traffic over medium and long distances, and also has an important
role to play in serving long distance passenger traffic. In 1979, about 77%
of rail freight traffic consisted of six bulk commodities, as against 69%



- 11 -
in 1966.  In addition to its long distance hauling of bulk freight and passen-
gers, KNR is expected to play a growing role in providing rapid transit ser-
vice for Seoul and its suburbs. The system which KNR operates is the most
timature" segment of Korea's transport sector.  The severe damage sustained
during the Korean War was repaired with the help of a large U5AID-financed
rehabilitation program during the fifties.  Since then, a continuing moderni-
zation and expansion program has been under way. Since 1962, Bank Group
assistance to KNR, through six projects, has amounted to $340 million. The
first four lending operations have been satisfactorily completed. Disburse-
ments of the Fifth Railway Loan (1101-KO) are 99% complete, and the Sixth
Railway Loan (1542-KO) made in 1978 for $120 million is 75% disbursed and
the project will be completed on schedule by mid-1981.
37.       As part of the general move to liberalize various sectors of
the economy, the Government intends to prepare KNR for an eventual trans-
formation into a public corporation (para. 48). This is strongly supported
by the Bank, and follows the line of major requirements in previous Loan/
Credit Agreements which have endeavored to provide KNR with increasing
autonomy. As regards railway finances, KNR earned positive returns until
1971; since then its financial situation deteriorated due to increased high-
way competition, which eroded earnings from profitable passenger service,
sharp inflation, which increased costs substantially, and tariffs maintained
by the Government at levels which did not fully compensate for inflation.
Since 1978, revenues have increased steadily, as a result of two tariff
increases in compliance with agreements of the Sixth Project (Loan 1542-KO),
and rapidly growing express passenger traffic. The requirements of covenants
covering operational and technical matters, in general, have been met satis-
factorily, with a consequent improvement in KNR's level of performance.
38.       Transport Policy Planning and Coordination.  A Transport Coordi-
nation Office had been established within the Ministry of Transport (MOT)
in 1970 and charged with data collection, the formulation and review of
transport policies, and assisting the Transport Coordination Committee (TCC),
which includes the ministries most concerned with transport, in the inter-
modal coordination of sectoral investment. In 1977, recognizing the import-
ance of its function, the Government upgraded the position of the head of the
TCO from Director-General to Assistant Minister, and in 1979 the newly
appointed Assistant Minister reorganized the TCO, centralizing the planning
and coordination of all modes of transport into one division with the bulk of
TCO's staff. Smaller divisions deal with matters pertaining to KMPA and KNR,
and with economic cooperation.
39.       The planning and coordination division now prepares annual traffic
forecasts for all modes of transport. Early in the year, it also compiles
and reviews all investments in the sector and, after discussions with the
respective agencies, submits an agreed investment budget to EPB. The TCO
also prepares, with other bureaus of MOT, proposals for tariff changes which
are then discussed with EPB. The EPB, which exercises budgetary control and
plays a senior role with regard to all other ministries, makes the final
decision on investment projects as well as on tariffs in the sector. To



- 12 -
review major investment projects, EPB has established a separate Bureau of
Project Evaluation.  The major function of this Bureau is to ensure that
investment projects are adequately prepared and, in the case of transport
projects, the Bureau has so far relied on the preparation work of specialized
agencies and TCO.  This arrangement is adequate to avoid duplication of work.
40.        The TCC does not meet often formally, but its members have
informal discussions as problems warrant. For instance, a working group
for the preparation of the next Five-Year Plan (1982-86), has already been
formed under the direction of the Assistant Minister of TCO, and with repre-
sentatives of the ministries and agencies dealing with transport and those
using transport such as agriculture, commerce, and industry. Five-year
traffic forecasts for all modes will be prepared by the spring of 1981, and
a sector investment plan by the end of July 1981.  This effort will be
greatly assisted by the comprehensive transport study now being carried out
by the Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST) under the Sixth
Railway Project. The study is expected to be completed toward the middle of
1980 and used as a basis for further transport investment feasibility studies
which are part of the proposed project (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Training of government staff is needed to improve TCO's capability of
performing its role in transport coordination. During negotiations, agree-
ment was reached on a schedule for such training (Section 3.10 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
IV. THE PROJECT
41.        The proposed project directly focuses on the goals set jointly
with Government for Bank participation in the sector, namely to increase
capacity of the transport system in a most economically efficient way and to
develop and strengthen the institutions dealing with the transport sector.
Over the past few years, the combination of increasing incomes and the
Government policy of restricting the ownership of use of the private
automobile had led to sharply increasing demand for the express train ser-
vices with the number of passengers transported in these trains increasing
fivefold between 1974 and 1979.  The proposed project offers an opportunity
to the Bank to support two key Government policies: (a) to hold down the use
of private automobile by improving public transport; and (b) to concentrate
the country's physical development around five cities:  Daejon, Daegu,
Masan, Gwangju and Jeonju, by improving passenger train service to these
cities from Seoul and Busan. With their high occupancy, passenger trains
also consume less fuel per passenger-km than expressway buses on the long
distance routes such as Seoul-Busan. Apart from providing the financial
resources to cover a decreasing portion of KNR's capital expenditures (30%
of 1978/79 requirements through the Sixth Project and about 15% of the
1980/81 requirements through the proposed project), the Bank has been
closely associated with the formulation of KNR's investment plans and
measures which have made KNR one of the most efficiently operated railroads
in the world. Despite great progress in operations, KNR still needs



- 13 -
assistance in planning and management, and continued Bank assistance on
these matters is sought both by the Government and KNR.
42.       The proposed project consists of (i) the investments which KNR
intends to start during 1980 and 1981, and (ii) technical assistance for
transport and urban transport feasibility studies. It was appraised by a
Bank mission in September-October 1979. A Staff Appraisal Report based on
the findings of the mission (No. 2770, dated April 1, 1980) is being distri-
buted separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from March 18 to March 21, 1980 with a
Government team which included Mr. Lee, Yong Shik, Aministrator of KNR and
Mr. J. H. Hwang, Director-General of the Korean Economic Planning Board's
Bureau of Economic Cooperation.
43.       The major components of the proposed project are summarized below:
(a) completion of the quadrupling of the 32.3 km section Seoul-Suweon;
(b) expansion of the West Seoul freight terminal at Susaeg;
(c) installation of a centralized traffic control system (CTC) on about
270 km of lines;
(d) rail or track renewal on about 320 km and provision of 70,000
concrete sleepers and 70,000 cu m of ballast;
(e) bridge and tunnel strengthening and right-of-way improvements;
(f) separation of road and rail at level crossings;
(g) provision of track maintenance equipment and track material
workshop machinery;
(h) the acquisition of 10 main line diesel locomotives, 12 diesel and
16 electric railcars for intercity traffic, 130 electric railcars
for Seoul urban traffic, 246 passenger cars and 100 freight cars
and repowering of 40 diesel locomotives and 40 diesel railcar8;
(i) provision of subsidiary shops for the new Daejeon passenger and
freight car shop and improvement to existing workshops and sheds;
(J) improvement of telecommunications and power facilities;
(k) construction of housing for employees and provision of hospital
equipment; and
(1)  provision of continued technical assistance and training, including
feasibility studies of transport sector investments selected upon
completion of the national comprehensive transport study now under
execution under the Sixth Railway Project.



- 14 -
44.       The total project cost is estimated at $604 million equivalent of
which the foreign exchange component is expected to amount to $160 million
(about 25%). The proposed loan of $94 million would cover the costs of about
33,800 tons of rails, track maintenance equipment, 2 breakdown cranes, 246
passenger cars, 100 freight cars, workshop equipment, technical assistance
and training. The remainder of the foreign expenditures will be met through
borrowing from other sources as indicated in the financing plan included in
the Loan and Project Summary. About $8.0 million will be provided by the US
Export-Import Bank and US commercial banks, mainly for diesel engines, at an
interest rate of 9% repayable over 9 years; about $38.0 million is expected
to be obtained from a foreign source, possibly with the involvement of a
national export credit guarantee agency, for signalling equipment; about $5.0
million for hospital equipment may be provided through a loan from the
Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF); $15.8 million will be
provided by the Korea Exchange Bank at an interest rate of 7.5% repayable
over 20 years. The local currency requirement of W 257 billion ($444 million
equivalent) will be provided partly (about 84%) by Government equity and
loans on concessional terms, and partly (about 16%) from KNR's own funds.
Physical contingencies of 5% in 1980 and 10% in 1981/82 have been included
for all items except rail and track renewal and motive power and rolling
stock. Price contingencies have been included for all items; assumed price
increases for local currency items are 25% in 1980, 15% in 1981 and 10% in
1982, and for foreign currency items 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981 and 8% in
1982.
Procurement
45.       All items to be procured under the proposed loan will be subject to
international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines. In bid
evaluation, Korean manufacturers of equipment will be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports, or the relevant pre-
vailing level of customs duties, whichever is lower.
Disbursements
46.       Disbursements would be made on the basis of 100% of the c.i.f. cost
of imported equipment and materials; 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment and materials if local bidders are successful; 100%
of cost of technical assistance; and 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
overseas training.
KNR Organization, Management and Staff
47.       KNR is a semi-autonomous agency within the Ministry of
Transportation, with its own management, accounts, and allocation from the
national budget. The Government, largely through the Economic Planning Board
(EPB), exercises control over staff, financial, budgetary and tariff matters.
Management is generally satisfactory, but there remains an immediate need to
strengthen KNR's capability for development of technical, financial and
economic policies and investment planning. In addition, KNR's managerial



- 15 -
functions and responsibilities need to be streamlined and the reorganized
management given adequate administrative and financial freedom.
48.       A management study, financed under the Fifth Railway Project
(Loan 1101-KO), has recently been completed by consultants. The study's
main conclusion is that KNR should be gradually transformed from its present
status as a semi-autonomous Government Agency to that of a Public Corpora-
tion. Managerial functions would be delegated, under the guidance of a
Board of Directors and the control of the Administrator (renamed President),
to three line managers (renamed Executive Vice Presidents) in charge of
Planning, Coordination and Control; Operations; and Administration respec-
tively. This transformation should be prepared by a set of short and
mid-term measures. Short-term measures would focus on the establishment of
a management information system and of an aggressive marketing organization
within KNR; and the strengthening of KNR's capability in the fields of
economic analysis for investment planning, financial management and account-
ing procedures, with special emphasis on implementation of performance bud-
geting and incremental long-term variable costing. Mid-term measures would
consist of a progressive reorganization of KNR's management along the lines
described above to ensure KNR's smooth transition to Public Corporation
status. The date (January 1, 1987) at which KNR will become a Public
Corporation and a draft time phased plan for implementing the above measures
have been agreed with Government (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement
and a related Supplemental letter).
49.       The number of employees, which has remained constant at about
40,t)00 up to 1978, has been increasing since 1979 on and is forecast to
reach 44,500 by 1982 to meet traffic demand. Staff productivity in terms of
traffic units (passenger-km plus freight net ton-km) per employee is high
(about 808,000 in 1979) compared with other railways. The higher pay scales
in the private sector cause some difficulties in retaining qualified and
experienced personnel. KNR's training programs are fundamentally sound.
KNR Facilities, Traffic and Operations
50.       The KNR system consists of 3,111 route-km of standard gauge
(1.435 m) and 47 km of narrow gauge (0.76 m) lines with about 607 km double
tracked. The single track industrial lines between the Northeast and Seoul
are electrified and most of the Seoul urban tracks are or are being elec-
trified, in association with the Seoul Metropolitan Electrified Suburban
Railway System (SMESRS). Many lines are in mountainous areas with steep
gradients and numerous sharp curves.  Maximum speed varies from 110 km/h (on
the Seoul-Busan double track line) to 70 km/h. Centralized traffic control
(CTC) has been installed in the Seoul urban area and on the heavily trafficked
electrified single track line from Seoul to Jecheon. Under the project, CTC
will be installed on another 270 km of lines. Automatic block operation is
provided on the Seoul-Busan line, while, on other lines, electric interlocking
or token block systems are installed. Telecommunications are in general
adequate, but some further improvements will be carried out under the
proposed project. The fixed installations are adequately maintained.



- 16 -
51.       KNR's motive power and rolling stock fleet consists of 406 diesel
and 90 electric locomotives (with about 10 steam locomotives still on shunting
duties), 120 diesel railcars, 252 electric railcars, about 1,815 passenger
cars, and about 17,000 freight cars. Another 10 diesel locomotives, 37 elec-
tric railcars, 246 passenger cars and 1,520 freight cars, not included in the
project, have been ordered for delivery in 1979-80. An additional 10 diesel
locomotives, 12 diesel railcars, 146 electric railcars, 246 passenger cars
and 100 freight cars are included in the project.
52.       KNR has four main workshops for maintenance of motive power and
rolling stock. A new freight car workshop has just been completed at
Daejeon and a new adjacent passenger car workshop is under construction.
KNR is planning to transfer all passenger and freight car maintenance to
these new workshops at Daejeon and, by 1981/82, close two of the existing
workshops.
53.       Both freight and passenger traffic have continued to grow during
the first three years of the Fourth Plan. From 1976 to 1979 freight traf-
fic in ton-km increased at nearly 5% p.a. and passenger traffic at the high
rate of over 11% p.a. However, freight traffic has been consistently below
forecast and for the future, a more conservative growth between 3% and 5% p.a.
has been assumed. On the contrary, passenger forecasts have often been
exceeded, particularly in the last few years as personal mobility greatly
increased with income rises. For the 1980-86 period, annual growth rates
between 7% and 10% have been retained, on the assumption that GNP would
continue to grow at around 7% to 8% p.a., and that Government would continue
to maintain a restrictive policy on the ownership and use of private cars.
Traffic on KMR's Seoul Suburban lines has grown at a very high pace, almost
tripling between 1976 and 1979, and approaching 4.5 billion passenger km p.a.
KNR forecasts that this traffic will triple by 1986.
54.       KNR's tariff structure needs to be revised to make sure that
tariffs provide sufficient revenue to cover all costs including an adequate
rate of return on investments, and that no rates will be below variable
costs. During negotiations, the Government agreed to make progressive
changes in KNR's tariff structure, starting with the next tariff increase,
in order to achieve the above goals no later than December 31, 1984.
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and a related Supplemental letter).
55.       Operating efficiency remains high and in general continues to
improve. Further improvements are possible only to a limited extent.
KNR Finances
56.       KNR has suffered net deficits every year since 1971.  These deficits
rose from Won 4.6 billion ($9.5 million equivalent) in 1971 to Won 22.3 bil-
lion ($46 million equivalent) in 1978. To make up for these losses which
led to substantial shortages of funds, the Government had to provide KNR
with annual subsidies rising from Won 0.7 billion in 1972 to Won 21.7 billion



- 1 7 -
in 1977 and Won 21.4 billion in 1978. As KNR's traffic increased steadily
and unit costs remained low thanks to high operational efficiency and low
salaries, its disappointing financial performance during 1971-78 was due to
inadequate tariffs. During negotiation of the Sixth Project (February 1978),
the Government and the Bank agreed that KNR's financial problem should be
tackled through a combination of raising tariffs and budgetary support on a
decreasing scale. Taking these considerations in account, a plan aimed at
substantially improving KNR's financial situation, was formulated. The plan
was successfully implemented.
57.        KNR's financial goal during the course of the proposed project
is in accordance with the objectives of the above plan to become financially
viable by 1981 without Government subsidies, while progressively increasing
its share in the financing of its capital investments. To meet this target,
KNR needs to achieve rates of return on its net fixed assets in use of not
less than 3.2% in 1980, and 5.5% in 1981 and 1982 and 6% thereafter
(Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). Achievement of the rate of
return requires monitoring KNR's working capital (Section 4.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement), KNR's investment expenditures (Section 4.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement), and KNR's debt service (Section 4.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
58.        The successful implementation of the proposed project, assuming
that the forecast level of traffic, costs and tariffs materialize, would
enable KNR to earn substantial rates of return on net fixed assets in use
resulting in a noticeable improvement of KNR's short- and long-term
financial situation. This improvement would be reflected in the building up
of cash reserves in 1984-86 and in a low ratio of long-term debt to equity.
The latter ratio would further improve if the excess cash would be used for
increasing KNR's share in the financing of the local component of its
capital investments and reduce borrowing from local sources accordingly.
The proposed project will consequently help KNR to reach its financial goal
and progressively reduce its need for government financial assistance.
59.         A sensitivity analysis of financial forecasts was conducted to
test the impact on KNR's financial performance during 1980-83 of the partial
or total occurrence of (a) a decrease in operating revenue of 10% due to
slower traffic growth; (b) 50% lower tariff increases; (c) a 50% increase in
inflation assumptions used for calculating working costs and (d) a 50%
increase in escalation assumptions used for capital investments. Should all
these occur simultaneously, the rate of return on net fixed assets in use
would be negative during 1980-83. In addition, KNR would be short about W
900 billion accumulated over 1980-83 to finance its working expenses, debt
service and its share in the cost of the project and its long-term financial
situation would preclude any additional borrowing to make up for the
shortage. The Government would consequently have to provide subsidies to
keep KNR in operation. The position outlined is, however, an extreme case
and the probability of all four assumptions occurring simultaneously is
highly remote. KNR's financial situation would, however, remain acceptable
if it had to borrow local funds to make up for a shortage of funds over



- 18 -
1980-83 resulting from (a) a 5% decrease in operating revenue due to slower
traffic growth combined with 25% lower tariff increases and an increase in
working costs resulting from a 25% increase in the inflation assumed for
these costs or (b) a 10% decrease in operating revenue due to slower trafic
growth.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
60.       KNR continues to play a vital role in the economy of Korea.
Although road transport and coastal shipping have increased their share
over the last decade (paras. 32 and 34), the railway remains the most
economic mode of moving bulk commodities to inland destinations. The line
haul costs are only a fraction of road costs and, while coastal shipping
costs are competitive with rail costs on a ton-km basis, the circuitous sea
routes often give rail the advantage. It is imperative that rail capacity
is sufficient to handle this traffic, which is vital for the country's
development.
61.       The combination of increasing incomes and the government policy of
restricting the use of private automobiles has led to a sharply increasing
demand for the more comfortable and faster passenger train services. For
long distances of 300-400 km express trains are more comfortable, safer and
faster than highway buses, and also compete favorably with air travel.
Development of express train services to satisfy the fast increasing demand
is justified, particularly since these are KNR's most profitable services.
Operating ratios for the special and limited express services were,
respectively, 37% and 43% in 1979.
62.       The original KNR Investment Plan for 1977-81 was analyzed as a whole
during the appraisal of the Sixth Railway Project (Loan 1542-KO) in 1977-78
and investments starting in 1980 and 1981 have been re-examined in greater
detail. The economic evaluation focuses on project investments globally, and
on particular items whenever possible. The larger group, accounting for
nearly half of all project costs, consists of investments which are primarily
geared to increasing railway capacity to carry types of traffic for which rail
transport is the most economic. The second group, amounting to 30% of project
costs and also consisting of capacity-increasing investments, is for suburban
passenger services in the Seoul Metropolitan Area. The remaining project
items are way and structures renewal (10%), and miscellaneous investments
(13%).
63.       The benefits of investments to increase the railway's capacity to
carry freight traffic are measured in terms of transport cost savings for
the economy of the country. The economic benefits in terms of transport
cost savings would yield an economic rate of return (ERR) of 33%. The pro-
posed capacity increases for passengers are for the express train services
provided by KNR. Benefits of increasing the capacity of these services are
measured in terms of willingness to pay for the service over and above their
costs and give a return of 17% on the investment. The capacity increases for
the Seoul suburban services, will enable KNR to increase train frequency, par-
ticularly in the fast developing Seoul-Suweon corridor. The population served



- 19 -
by the rail line is already over half a million and is expected to double by
the early 1990s. The Bank is planning an urban sector mission in 1980, to
examine the assistance it could provide to develop urban transport facilities
in Seoul, Busan and other cities in Korea (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The expected economic return in the investment is 19%.  KNR's
program for way and structure renewals during the plan period was appraised
in the Sixth Project (Loan 1542-KO) and the portion of the plan included in
this project is unchanged. The return on the program based on maintenance
costs savings averages about 27%. The weighted average economic return for
the project is 22%.
64.       The main area of risk is in traffic forecasts, which have often
been over-optimistic for railway projects. However, in an economy growing
as rapidly as Korea's it is unlikely that the shortfall, if any, will be
significant. For the purpose of the sensitivity analysis, the ERR's of the
capacity increasing investments have been recalculated assuming the lower
estimate freight and passenger traffic would eventuate (para. 53). In this
event the ERR would be reduced to 20%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement follows the general
pattern of loan agreements relating to railway projects. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III. The execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and KNR is an additional con-
dition precedent to the effectiveness of the proposed loan (cf. Sections 3.03
and 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D. C.
April 9, 1980



-20-                                                          Annex I
Page 1 of 5
KOREA REPUBLfC OP - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHZUT
KDRZA RPUBLIC F        -nzcST GRECENT EAJSTIA AAE
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ  YM.)                 KDRZA REPUBLIC oP               -MRST E  T(AST=        ATSAD  S
TOTAL              8.5                                                   SME         SANE     NXT HIGHR
AGRICULTURAL      22.6                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d   GROUP /a
ONP PER CAPITA (US$)                 120.0       300.0     820.0           450.6       926.1      1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    258.0       815.0    1020.0           371.1       73'-.      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     24.7        31.4      36.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9        41.2      49.0             27.4       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      49.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        64.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      251.0       319.0     365.0           154.8        44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1154.0      1371.0    1593.0           566.7       140.7       100.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.9        41.0      37.0            41.3        41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                         53.8        55.7      60.0            54.9       55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.3         3.3       3.0              3.3        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.4       2.0              2.4        2.4         1.7
URBAN                              5.9         6.4       5.4             4.3         4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     41.0        30.0      24.0             30.2       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.0        10.0       8.0              8.3        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1/f       2.6       1.4              2.1        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       672.0    686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..        42.0      43.9            34.1        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          80.8        99.0     117.0            106.2      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   85.0       114.0     112.0            104.1      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.0        65.0      75.7            57.4        64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       13.0/      19.0      16.3             16.9       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     13.0         8.0       5.0              4.8        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.0        59.0      63.0             61.1       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           62.0        43.0      37.0            46.6        46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        58.0      62.0             21.9       60.8        69.4
URBAN                               .,        84.0      80.0             46.2       75.7        85.1
RURAL                               ,,        38.0      36.0             12.8       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        25.0      61.0             28.4       46.0        70.1
URBAN                               ..        59.0      68.0             65.0       46.0        88.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.0             14.7       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0      2110.0    1677.0           3790.5     2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3220.0/h    2170.0/h   517.0           1107.4     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2510.0      1900.0    1430.0            613.3      453.4       197.6
URBAN                               ..          ..     340.0            203.6      253.1       260.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..           1110.3     2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         14.9       ..             23.9       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.6         5.3       5.1              5.2        5.3         4.7
URBAN                              5.4         5.0       4.9               ..        5.2         4.4
RURAL                              5.6         5.5        5.3              ..        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.5         2.3        ..                         I 9         1.1
URBAN                              2.8         2.7                 ..                1.6         1.2
RURAL                              2.4         2.2        ..               ..        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             28.0        49.9        ..               ..       50.0        66.0
URBAN                             67.3        92.4        ..        .      ..       71.7        85.1
RURAL                             12.0        29.9      64.9               ..       17.3



Annex I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
KOREA REPUBLIC Of               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  94.0        105.0      109.0             97.9      102.5        101.7
MALE                  99.0        1D6.0      109.0             98.7       108.6       110.0
FEMALE                89.0        ID5.0      109.0             97.4       97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         43.0      63.0              42.2       33.5         51.2
MALE                  39.0         52.0       71.0             46.7        38.4        56.4
FEMALE                14.0         34.0       54.0             40.9       30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (i OF SECONDARY)  14.0           16.0       16.0             12.5        11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0         57.0      49.0              32.5       35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                           34.0         37.0      38.0              25.8       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6         78.0       91.0             84.1        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS FER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          2.0        2.7              6.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          32.0        126.0      144.0             84.4      122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3         13.0      48.0              22.4       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSANO POPULATION                   69.0        138.0      173.0             24.2       40.0          78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            5.0        2.2              3.6         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7500.0      10200.0   13061.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8         32.7      32.8              36.7       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4         51.0      44.6              54.6       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.3         Z0.1      33.0              16.3       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4         35.0       36.6             40.7        33.5         33.8
MALE                                  49.5         46.8       48.8             49.9        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                17.2         23.0       24.2             31.0        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.4        1.1              1.1         1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/i         17.1       16.1             14.9       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3/i         44.5      45.3              46.8        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77?          7.1        5.7              6.2         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/i         17.7       16.9             16.8        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                 ..           ..     220.0             193.1      270.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..            128.7      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)                  C
URBAN                                 ..           ..      194.0            136.8      282.5        550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..             96.8       248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        9.0             32.0        20.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..              52.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted grcup averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capiCa, 1976);   /e  Upper Middle
Income ($1136-$2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;   /g  1962;   /h  Registered, not all practising
in the country;   /i  1965.
May, 1979



-22-                                                                        Annex I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Iit:  The adjanted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, secluding the estreme valucr of the indicator and the nest
populated country in each group.   Coverage oE coutries among the indicators depends em availability of data and is  not uniform                 Due to lad  of data,
group acecagos for Capital Surplun Oil Etporters and indicots of access to water and escrec.  disposal.  housiog. income distribution and poverty are
si=ple population-voighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values
LAUD AREA (thousand sq  is)                                                             Population per hospital bed - total, urbn,  ad rural - Population (total,
Total - Totl norface aces conprising land area and inland waters                          urban, and moru1) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
- lost recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily               available in public and private general and specialieed hospital and re-
or permanently for craps, pastures,   market and kitchbe  gardens or to                habilitation centers.  Hospitals are  stablihbments permanently staffed by
lie fIloc.                                                                             at least one physician.  CEtablishmestr  providing principally custodial
care are not included.  Rura  hoapital, however, include health and m.di-
GUNPCLEi CAPFTA A1)_  - GNP per capita estimates at curent market prices,                 cal  centers not permanently staffed by a physici-n (bun by a medical an-
calculated by name conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 b.sis);               isant, curs, e,   dwif, etc.) which offer ic-patient acoommodation and
196i , 1971, cud 1977 doats                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
AdmIssions per hospital bed - Total nshber of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CiiSjPfPIlN PER CAPITA  - Annual cons- mption of coaercial energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal ard ligoict, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
chornal electricity) in kilograsm  of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Aerae e            h                          A   lseof oseoi (pero  p     househoLd) - total, urban, and rural
LPUPLATIN iLl ViAL STA.TISIICS                                                            A housRehol"d connsr  ofa gron      dfiniidual. neft share li,ivi   qoactros
Tonal popuioloSn. eid-vear (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their main meals   A hoarder or lodger nay or may not be included in
average of too cud-year estimates; 1960, L975, and 1977 data                           the household for statistical purposas.   Statistical definitions of house-
Urbhau   ulin                          - Ratio of otbha to total populi-                 hold vary.
ccin; different definitions of cobac areas may affect comparability                  Averl asnumbet of cera_os per room- total. orban, and rural - Averoge nun-
of dta among countries.                                                                her of persons per room in a11, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population densito                                                                       dwellings, respectively.   wellings exclude non-pernasent structures and
Per sq  ks  - Mid-year popalation per sqoare kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied ports
of told  area.                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Access to electrciity (percent sof dwellings) - total, urba.. sad ruralI -
P   sq. k. agricultare land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conecbtional dwellings with electricity in living quarters 5s percentage
..I7.                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respactively.
Pa golatico ncr scoucrare (percent) - Children (0-14 years), notking-age
(15-64 years), and retired (i5 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                    Ad sated esrolslest ratios
Population growth rain (percent) - corsi. sod orban - Comp.ond  annual              Primary school - total. and female - Total and femaln enrollment of all agns
growth rares of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populati.; normally includes children aged 6-11 years hut adjusted for
Crude bleh race (per chou.s.ad) - Anusal live births pen thousand of                     differrot lengthb  of primary education; for counrtries  ith universal ed-
nid-year population; ton-year arithmetic a. eraget ending is 1960 and                  cation enrollment may snced 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1911 and five-your average esding in 1971 for most recent estiate.                     above the official school  ge.
Crude deta rate (oar thousand) - Annual deaths per nhousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total. ad female - CesPpsed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-pear arithmetic aoemgee ending in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least foor years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-yeor acerage ending in 1975 for nest recent estimate.                          ide.  general vocational, or tiacher -raising imatructio.e for pupils
croon cecroductioc  arae - Average number of dsaghtens a woman will bear                 usually of 12 to IT pears of age; correspondence courses ate generally
"n her normal seproductive period if she  xparifences present age-                     excluded.
,yecifcc fertility rates; asually five-ye ar averages ending in 196C,                locational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocacion.l institutio.s  in-
1970, cnd 1975.                                                                        clude technical, industria1, cr other programs which operate independently
PanSlo planning - accenorer, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of bhith-contro1 devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. ad secondaro - Total students enrolled in
planning pr-grn..                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teaohern in the certe-
Pamlc planniog -ousers (cercent of married women) - Percentagr of                        spnndlng levels.
macrind  oameo ot child-bearing age (15-44 years) cho ass birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - literate adults (able to road and  rite) a.
do_iceo to  all  married comes in same age group,                                      a percentage of total adult population aged 15 yearn and over.
POOD ANl  iTRlTfOh                                                                    COcNSUMPTIT0
Indes ci food production per capita (1970-1001 -Index nsober of per                   Passenger c-rs (per thousand dopulation) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capitta  annual production of all food cosneditiee. seating lean than eight persons; excludes embalercee,  hearses and military
P'   apita suppy of calories (percent of rensiremerte) - Cospured from                 vehicles.
energy rqai-Ilest at net food esyplies available Sn coustry Per capita             Rad is reeivers  ntrosn  noaenin)-All types of receivers for radio
pr day.  Available supplies comPyise domestic production, imports leas               broadoasts no geseral public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
eports, end changes in stock,  let nupplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in yeare when registration of radio sets was in
qu-nniniei  used in food processing, and losses in distribtion.   Ri-                effect; data for recent years mop not be comparable since most coontrien
qcire=ents were estimated by PAO based on physinlogical needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering enviroamenta1 teaperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand populonino) - TV reneivers for broadcast to generd
weights, age and sea distributions of popalation, and alloying 10 per-                 public per thousand populatior; e.cloden onlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cenr for wasrc  at household level.                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circulation (per theusand nopalatie) - Shows the average circola-
capita oar supply of food per day.  Net aupply or Teed is defined as                   cioc of 'daily general interest secpeper", defined as a peciodiual publi-
sbove.  iequiresents fr all coattries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording genera1 cewe.   It is fonaidered to
a tiniams allowance of 60 grams  of total protein per day and 20 grams                 be "daily" if it appears at leant four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams  should he animal protein.           Cinea annual ectenda.ce o. r capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These sto=dards are  lower rhac nhce of 71 grams of coral protein and                  sold dur ing  hy-           idig  dmis          to drive-in cine.es and mobile
23 grace of animal protein as an average far the -orld, propsed by                     units.
FAO in the Third World Food Surey.
Per callis protein supply from animal and Pulse - Protein supply of food             RMPLOYMENT
derived from aetmals and pulses is grams per day.                                   Total labor force fthousand9  - icasn.ically active persons, including erned
Child (ages I-h) mortality race leer thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed hot excludi=g h.u.ewivrs, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age gro.p 1-4 yeers, to children in this age group.                             tio.s  in various countries are not comparable.
Fenale (percet) - Fenale labor  force as percentage of total labor force.
fEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
lfe ocpncctand  at lirth (rears) - Average narber of years of life                       as perce.tage of total labor force.
remaining at hirth; us.ally five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, sanufacturing and
and 1597                                                                               electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
nfatmortality rate (pan thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Farticipation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, nole, and
cue pear of age per nhousand lice bihts.                                               freale labor force as percrcncgnn of their resput ion poyclaticn.
Accous to safe  _ater (percent of populatiosn  - t=tal, arban, and rural -                Thee  are IL0's sdjusted yartucipution rates rnflecting a e-arc
NSober of people (total, urbes, and rural) with re bsnnble access no                   n tuctore of tho population, end long tine tred.
sofa water supply (isciades treated surface waters or untrested bht                 Economic depeodency racic - Ratio of population under 15 ad 65 and ovecr t
ascOntCSinated  -ator sach as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   rho lahbr firce in age group of 15-64 nears.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of thair respective popalations
Itasn urban aret spublin  foctain or standposn located not more                    INCOME DISTRIBSTCIN
than 200 meters from  a hbase nay be considered as being within rae-                Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
socable  access of that house   In rural areas reasonable access would                 percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the  household do 00t have to                   of h    hld.
spend a diaproporti.na.e part of the day in fetching the family's
cater needs                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GREOUPS
Access to enereca dineesel (percent of peculation) - tonal. arbes, and                Estimated ebselana otveeny tocome level (Ui$ Penrcaital - urban asd natal -
rural - Number of  .e.o.l  (total,  eban, and  -unal) served by macrets                   Absilute poverty income level 1S chat ncone level below witch a =inimal
disposal as percentages of their reapective populatios.  eucreta                        nutritionally adequate diet pLan esanetial non-food require=ents is not
dioposa1 may include the collection and disposal, with or without                       affordable.
teeament.  of huaan snoreta and  as.ts-water by water-borne systems                 Estimated relative peverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the one of pit privien and  isilar inRlallanions                                     Ealtive poverty iucoe level ie tha - locome level les than o-e-third
Population per physician - Populatien divided by nueber of practicing                     per capita personal ifco=e of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                     Estimated population belwo poverty incone level (percent) - arban and nraal -
Posulatios per nursing person - Population divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban end natal) who are either  absolute poor  or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        relative poor" whichever Cs greater.
assistant nurse-.
Economic and Social Tars Division
iconom.ic Anlysis and Projections Departmert



-23-
ANNEX L
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOMENT DATA SHEET
Actual /e                                                 Pro.ertod            GrowLh rates (%)
1965     1970       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980    1965-75  1978  1978-80
A. National Acco>unts
(Million 0SS at
1975 prices)
-           1. GDP                 6,939.3  11,760.4  13,852.7  16,127.4  17,542.2  19,089.2  21,947.8  25,769.0  28,688.0  31,324.0  33,938.0   10.7    11.3    8.7
2. Gains fron TOT        140.4      665.3   1,122.9   -,486.4       348.7          -   1,160.5   1,511.0   1,685.0   1,350.0   1,337.0           -        -       -
3. Gross domesLic
income            7,079.7  12,425.7  14,975.6  17,613.7  17,890.9  19,089.2  23,108.4  27,280.0  30, 373.0  32,674.0  35,275.0   10.4    11.3    7.7
4. Imports (goods
and NfS)            984.3   4,228.6   5,273.4   7,154.3   7,373.4   7,464.0   9,680.0  11,723.0  15,138.0  16,077.0  16,636.0   22.5    29.1    4.9
*           5. Eoport. volume        388.3   1,843.8   3,111.5   5,001.9   4,887.9   5,678.6   8,129.6  10,210.0  11,994.0  12,294.0  12,827.0   30.7    17.5    3.4
6. Exports
(adjusted
for TOT)            528.7   2,509.1   4,234.3   6,488.3   5,236.6   5,671.6   9,290.1  11,721.0  13,978.0  13,644.0  14,164.0   26.1    19.2    0.6
7. Resource gap
(adjusted
for TOT)            455.6   i,719.5   1,039.0        666.0   2,136.8   1,785.4        389.9        2.0   1,160.0   2,433.0   2,472.0         -        -      -
8. Total
cons--ption       6,873.1  10,771.0  12,686.9  13,617.4  14,525.2  15,381.1  16,538.4  19,187.0  21,299.0  23,006.0  24,616.0    8.3    11.0    7.5
9. lnvestment            917.1   3,276.1   3,105.5   4,275.9   5,070.2   5,120.6   5,874.4   7,975.0  10,841.0  11,900.0  12,852.0   18.8    35.9    8.8
10. Domestic savings
(adjuntod for
TOT)                206.6   1,654.8   2,288.7   3,996.3   3,365.7   3,708.1   6,569.9   8,093.0   9,373.0   9,668.0  10,659.0   33.6    15.8    7.4
11. GDP at currect
I'S$              2,996.5   8,303.4   9,835.8  12,393.1  16,780.1  19,089.2  25,369.5  35,375.0  47,582.0  60,488.0  72,633.0   20.7    34.5   23.9
B. Sector nCtput
(Share of GDP at
1975 prices)
1. Agriculturn.
forestry
and fisho-ien        46.3       32.8       29.3       26.1       25.3       24.9       23.6       22.2       19.1       19.6      19.1       -        -       -
2. Mining and
saanfact ring         13.9      20.5       23.4       26.2       28.2       29.2       31.8       30.6       32.9      31.9       32.0       -        -       -
3. Other                  39.8       46.7       47.4       47.8      46.5       45.9       44.5       47.2       48.0       48.5       48.9      -        -       -
C. Pricen (1975=100)
1. Export prlce
Index /I             57.7       67.4       67.3       85.2      107.9      100.0      111.7      120.7      132.9     154.1      167.7       -        -      -
2. Import price
rodem  /a            46.3       46.2       46.8       62.5       97.2      100.0       98.0      105.2      114.0     138.8      151.9       -        -      -
3. Terom  of -zede
indee               124.6      145.9      143.8      136.3      111.0      100.0      114.0      114.8      116.5      111.0     110.4       -        -      -
4. GDP deflator           43.2       70.6      71.0        76.8      95.7      100.0      115.6      137.3      165.9      193.1      214.0      -        -       -
5. A-e-age orchange
rata                266.2      310.4      394.0      398.5      406.0      484.0      484.0     484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0       -        -      -
D. Selected Indicators   1965-75  1977-80             E.                                                          Actual
1. IGOR                   2.39       3.75                                                  1960       1970       1975       1977       1978
2. I.Port elasticity    2.10         1.08             1. Labor farce (millon)               8.9       10.2       12.3       13.4       13.9
3. A-erage domestic                                   2. Uremployment (% of E.1)            7.9        4.9        4.1        3.8        3.2
savings rate         0.15       0.31              3. Employrent (million)               8.2        9.7       11.8      12.9       13.5
4. Marginal domestic                                  (% shares)                          100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
savings rate         0.29       0.25              3.1 Agrlculture, forestry,
5. Ioports/GDP            0.36      0.49                   fisheries                       58.6       50.5       45.9       41.8       38.4
4. Investment/GDP         0.25       0.36             3.2 Mining and manufacturing         10.4       14.3       19.1       22.4       28.5
7. Resource gap/GDY       0.11      0.05              3.3 Other                            31.0       35.2       35.0       35.8       33.1
F. Public Finance /b        1972       1973       1974       1973       1976      1977/d
(Z of GDP)
1. Current revenue        17.8       16.9       18.3      20.3       22.9       22.7
1.1 Tan re-vnue           13.5       13.2      15.0       16.8       18.9       18.9
2. Current
e-pendit-re           14.2       11.6      12.4       14.4       14.3       15.7
2.1 Def ense
e-penditures          4.5        3.7       4.4        4.8        5.7        6.3
3. Goverasez,t
saving                3.5        5.3        5.0        5.8        8.5        7.0
4. Capital
eomenditurc /c        11.3        8.7       8.0        8.3       12.7       10.5
/t  Data for 1965-76 refer to nerchondise trade only, 1977-80 data include  -archandise and nonfact-r servi-es.
/b  Refers to the Governent Sector, comprising Central Government (including govern- ent enterprises. ), oal Government and Special Accounts.
Ic Refers to total capital e-pendttures, lens repayment of debts.
/d  Budget estimates.
Data for 1977 and 1978 arc based on rei-ed National Acccunts (BOK, August 1979); details of the  -evi-ed historical series Eor 1965-76 er   s.Lot
vacilohic at thI  Ctime.
N,-be-or 29, 1979



-24-                                                              ANNEX I
P.ge 5 of S
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(0 million at current prices)
Actuail                                                Pro1ected
1969    1970     1971    1972    1973      1974     1975     1976      1977     1978     1979      1980
A. Summary of Balce  of Pavnents
1. Exports (icc. NFS)                                        998  1,221    1,478  2,075   3,962    5,125   5,679    9,111   12,328   15,940  18,942   21,512
2. Imports (in-l. 0FS)                                     1,880  2,064   2,490  2,577  4,368    7,209    7,464    9,493   12,329   17,264  22,321   25,267
3. Resource bulance                                         -882    -843  -1,012    -502    -406  -2,084  -1,785          -382       -I  -1,324  -3,379  -3,755
4. Net fuctor 00 -0tit  innone
(1) Vet itcereut payments                                   2    -29       -91    -138   -166      -229      -399     -411     -479      -702     -790     -997
of vhilh interest on public MLT loans               -47     -68      -89   -120    -150       -201     -290      -345     -437     -653  -1,065  -1,374
(2) Direct inet .meet intone                               -6      -8        -      -2        1       -S       -5      -37      -63       -80      -65       -46
(3) Workers' reittattes  (net) L                            -       -        -       -        -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -
(4) Other fartor secvice  intone (net)                     91      77       84     101       72       74       76       167      332      549       787      916
Current  trsesfers (net)                                  246     180      171      170     190      224      226       349      223      472       500      600
6. Balance on current acount                                -549   -623       -848   -371   -309  -2.023  -1.887          -314        12  -1.085  -2,947  -3,282
7. Private direct isveutnent                                  16      65        43      74     137      104        53       76       104      101      110      125
8. Official cupitul grants                                   150      131       84      87      61        64        -        -         -        -         -        -
1'.beit M 6 LT Louts
9. Diis-urements                                             660     414       625     735     757    1,155    1,687    1,701    2,212    3,919    4,965    5,275
ID. Amortization                                              109    205        215     289     334       391      368      494       720    1,142    1,500    1,700
11. Net oiursemects                                           551     209       410     446     423       764    1,319    1,207    1,492    2,777    3,465   3,575
Other M & LT Loans
12. Disbursements                                              17       78       33      49      71       174       85      115        46        -         -        -
13. Am-orti-atio                                                 3       8       10      10      15        23       28      105        71       97       75        72
14. Net dsishrseneets                                           14      70       23      39      56       151       57       10      -25       -97      -75       -72
IS. Une of IMF resources /b                                      -    -10        -8     -10       -       132      130       97      -25        -2        -         -
16. Short-tern capitol transactions                            57      122      135    -19       S2      -45       680      357        21  -1,171       400       500
17. CTpitul transactioss NEI /c                               -78       71      112    -87   -110         868      141      -14     -233       108        70      154
18. Chauge in reserves (- = increuse) /d                     -161    -35         49   -159   -340        -15      -493  -1,419  -1,346        -631  -1,023  -1,000
19. Foreign echange  reserves /e (end of peioid)              549    584        535    694   1,034    1,049    1,542   2,961   4,307    4,938    5,961    6,961
B. Creat and Loan Coeiteents
1. Official graot                                            150     131        84      87      61       64         -        -         -        -
2. Total public M & LT loans                                  753     475      699     813   1,073    1,972    1,304    3,613    3,304    5,014
(L) lBRD                                                   65      40       80       73     150       85   382.5       372       335      659
(2)IDA                                                     15      15         7      26      20        -  -               -        -         -
(37 Orcer multilateral /f                                  25      20       81      68       46       89   101.5        114      135       50
(4) Governments /L                                        102     161      255    479      383       477      360      917       406    1,190
Of  bhioh ceotrally planne. d                         -        -        -       -       -         -        -        -         -        -
(5) Suppliers                                             374     134      248      94     223       486      232       689    1,144    1,027
(6) Fiounciul institutlons                                144     104       13      73     240       737      193    1,448    1,216    1,966
(7) B(cds                                                   -       -        -        -       -       19         -       60       68      122
(8) Publiic lons 1NEI  h                                   28       1        -        -      I1       79       34         -        -         -
3. Other M & LT ioans /i                                     100      26        67      74    213       120       138       97        16        -
DIot sad Debt Servies
Public debt outstanding 6 disbereda (end of period)                                  2,691   3,199    3,982    5,277    6,659   8,472    11,992
Interest on puliE  uiebt                                                               120     150       201      290      389      437        653
1opaymeets 00 public dubt                                                              289    334        391      368      504       717     1,142
Total pblic debt service                                                               409     484       592      658      893    1,154      1,795
Other debt service  (set)                                                               23      33        54       60      103       125       140
Total dubt sorvice  leer)                                                              432     517       646      718      996    1,279      1,935
Burden on Import Earnlss (%)
PoclIc  debt service                                                                  19.7    12.2     11.6      11.6      9.8      9.2       11.3
Total orbt service                                                                    20.8    13.1      12.6     12.6     10.9      10.2      12.1
ID S + Direct Iovest. Inc.                                                            20,7    13.1      12.4     12.6     11.3      10.7      12.6
Average Terms on Public DeDt
Interest as 1 prier year DO6D                                                          5.3     5.6      6.3       7.6      8.2      7.3        7.7
Anorti-atioc an Z prine year DOD                                                     12.9    12.4      12.2      9.2     10.9      11.9      13.5
iRD doeb  outstandisg 6 disbursed                                                       94.7  139.8   223.8   403.5   659.0   835.1  1,123.2
IBRD as T pu.lic debt 06D                                                                3.5     4.4       5.6      7.7       9.9      9.9       9.4
IBRD as X public dent service                                                            1.7      2.5      3.3      4.9      5.7       6.7       6.4
JDA uent outstanding & disbursed                                                        47.1   58.5       78.3     92.7   102.4   111.1        114.4
iDA us % public debt  4D0                                                                1.8      1.8      2.0      1.8       1.5      1.3        1.0
IDA us 0 public ueir service                                                             0.1     0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1       0. 1      0.1
Eotreral feDt (Disbursed Only) ODsttanding Decenber 31. 1978              Amount         Z
1. IBRD                                                                 1,123.2        9.4
2. BSnk Groop /1                                                        1,237.5       10.3
3. Other nultilateral                                                     400.9        3.3
4. Goveroent                                                            3,353.9       28.0
0  wInhch centrally planned economics                                     - 
5. Suppliers                                                            5,711.0       31.0
6. Ftnanctia  institotions                                              3,021.4       25.2
7. Bdss                                                                   266.2        2.2
8.  thie  public debt   e.i.                                                   -         -
9. Ttotl public debt                                                   11,991.6      100.0
10. Other MLT debt                                                         461.2
L1.  Total public end other MLT debt (disbrured)                        12,452.8
12. Total public and other MIT debt (intl. uedisbersed)                 19,080.7
C. Memorandum Items
1. Gruet element of tetal commitments                       25.2   25.8       30.5    37.2   25.2      27.7      10.6     11.1       8.0      7.4
2. Average Screer  (%)                                        5.1     5.1      5.2     4.8     6.1       8.0      7.9      8.0       8.2      8.8
3. Average maturity (yearn)                                  14.1    17.9     19.0    23.6   18.3       11.6     13.0     13.0      11.4     14.4
la  Included in otber factor sereice income.
/b  Net of "dravings" and 'repayment by purc-hae" (IFS).
/c  Inoludes borrowings by the banking system.
/d  Excludes sat use of IMF resnerces f      ebSi are s.hon separately.
/e "Intereationsl Reserves" (IFS).
La Includes bilateral OD,, E.imbaink, official expert credits, including US CCC Credits.
/h Other guaranteed private loans.
/iPriouse loans.
/t, Exclsoes IPC.
iovembet 29. 1979



ANNEX II
- 25 -                                       Page 1 of 14 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                   (less cancellations)
Number         Year          Borrower              Purpose                          Bank   TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans and eight credits fully disbursed                                    678.2          106.8
906          1973    Republic of Korea         Education II                        23.0                        1.8
917          1973    Republic of Korea         Ports I                             80.0                        1.5
953          1974    Republic of Korea         Tourism                             25.0                        0.5
994          1974    AFDC                      Agriculture                          13.0                       0.5
1070          1975    Republic of Korea         Secondary Cities-Gwangju             15.0                       3.2
1096          1975    Republic of Korea         Education III                       22.5                        5.1
1101          1975    Republic of Korea         Railways V                         100.0                        2.8
1193          1976    Republic of Korea         Second Integrated Dairy Dev.         15.0                       0.4
1203          1976    Republic of Korea         Highways III                        90.0                        2.5
1216 &        1976    Republic of Korea         Rural Infrastructure I               20.0                       0.1
1218-T                                                                                     40.0                 0.1
1319          1976    ADC                       Irrigation                           29.0                      25.3
1328          1976    Republic of Korea         Agricultural Credit                  20.0                       0.4
1338          1976    KDB II                    Dev. Finance Co.                     82.5                       3.1
1364          1977    ADC                       Irrigation                          95.0                       74.3
1401          1977    Republic of Korea         Ports II                            67.0                       62.5
1461          1977    KDFC VI                   Dev. Finance Co.                     70.0                       2.6
1466          1977    Republic of Korea         Heavy Machinery                     80.0                       24.6
1474          1977    Republic of Korea         Vocational Training                 23.0                       16.2
1503          1978    ADC - Ogseo Stage I   Agriculture/Irrigation                  36.0                       35.9
1507          1978    SMIB II                   Dev. Finance Co.                     55.0                       2.2
1530          1978    Republic of Korea         Rural Infrastructue II              95.0                       61.7
1542          1978    Republic of Korea         Railway VI                         120.0                       44.5
1574          1978    KDB III                   Dev. Finance Co.                   110.0                       53.6
1635          1978    KDFC VII                  Dev. Finance Co.                   100.0                       41.4
1640          1978    Republic of Korea         Highways IV                        143.0                      139.4
1666          1979    Republic of Korea         Chungju Multipurpose                125.0                     120.0
1676          1979    Republic of Korea         Electronics Technology               29.0                      28.9
1749          1979    SMIB III                  Dev. Finance Co.                     60.0                      59.2
1758 /a       1979    Second Gwangju
Regional Cities                                            65.0                      65.0
1774 /a       1979    Republic of Korea         Population 1                         30.0                      30.0
1788 /a       1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power Project                          115.0                      115.0
Total                                                              2,631.2  40.0  106.8   1,024.3
of which has been repaid                                           112.8   -        1.6
Total now outstanding                                              2,518.4  40.0  105.2
Amount sold                         8.8
of which has been repaid          3.9                                4.9   -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                  2.513.5  40.0  105.3
Total undisbursed                                                  1,024.2   0.1             1.024.3
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEK If
-26-                         Page 2 of 14 pages
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                           Amount ($ million)
Year     Obligor                 Types of Business              Loan  Equity Total
1968   KDFC                       Development Financing            -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.             Textiles                        1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                Pulp and paper                  4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Crop.            Capital Market Development    -        0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                       Development Financing            -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Crop.            Capital Market Development    -        0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Fincance Crop.           Capital Market Development   5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers               6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Crop.           Capital Market Development    -         0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                             5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                             15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                       Development Financing          17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                      0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                       Development Financing                  0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Crop.           Capital Market                   -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Crop.            Capital Market                15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                       Development Financing            -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -      1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                       Capital Market                   -     0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Crop.                                            -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -      1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -      1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
Total gross commitment                                   99.4   21.7  121.1
less cancelations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                    50.7    2.3   53.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                        48.7   19.4   68.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                          -_-             -
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
-27-                      Page 3 of 14 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Prolect:
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975: Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in
the private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of
fruiLts and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using
land that was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are
mainly asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and
peach. Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing
to lack of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the
project. However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since
September 1977 when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's
scope to meet changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will
finance processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables,
and also fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for
which the loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have
increased significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds
before the Closing Date. Disbursements as of December 31, 1979 were over
96% of the loan.
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: November 11. 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of further development of 400 existing dairy
farms which participated in the first project; the development of 450 new
dairy farms; expansion of existing dairy processing facilities, construction
of a new processing plant; and technical assistance for both farm
development and processing. The effective date was delayed for nearly a
year but the implementation has progressed rapidly and the project may be
coempleted ahead of schedule. The project will benefit 41% more farmers and
supply 8% more cows than was originally estimated. Technical support to the
farmers has been strengthened but more has to be done to improve pasture
quality and establish a feed regime which would ensure the development of a
_1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
5he progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
-tnnding that they di not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
iald   a   :es in pLoject execution.



ANNEX II
-28-                   Page 4 of 14 pages
low-cost dairy industry in Korea.  The expansion of processing facilities is
progressing steadily and it is anticipated that the actual capacity then
will be significantly above the original estimate.  KDBC's financial
condition improved during the last two years.  The general prospects are for a
gradually improving trend.  As of December 31, 1979, disbursements were over
97% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project: $60.0 Million of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Million Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective
Date: June 4, 1976: Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood,
Roads and Bridges, Water Supply and Rural Electrification components were
completed by the end of 1977. Minor Irrigation and Upland reclamation will
be completed by the Closing Date. Project monitoring and reporting continue
to be satisfactory, the Hydrologic Services Study has been completed and the
evaluation study is already producing useful results.  As of December 31,
1979, the total loan amount was about completely disbursed.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5. 1976: Effective Date:  October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31. 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. A project
office has been established, and construction work is progressing on
the first of five major civil works contracts. A second contract was
awarded in July 1979. Altogether, the five contracts will involve
construction of 8 large and 19 small dams, 284 km of main and secondary
canals and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The project, which
will require five years to complete, also involves construction of 80 km of
river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as well as
feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Miho Watershed.
The project is currently two years behind schedule due to major shortfalls
in local budget allocations. As of December 31, 1979, disbursements were
about 13% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1328    Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan of
October 12, 1976; Effective Date:  March 10. 1977; Closing
Date: June 30. 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit
335-KO). It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation (NACF) for medium- and long-term loans to farmers, through
selected Gun (county) cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard
development, silkworm rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards,
greenhouses for vegetable production, and on-farm fruit storage. The loan
became effective on March 10, 1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in
the following month. Project implementation continues to progress



ANNEX II
-29-                        Page 5 of 14 pages
satisfactorily and total lending is on schedule.  As of December 31, 1979,
disbursements were 98% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of up-
lands. Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam
has been completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was
awarded in December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule and
construction is progressing well; however, the irrigation subprojects are
behind schedule due to shortfalls in local budget allocation. As of
December 31, 1979 disbursements were about 22% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work
consists of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and
land development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of
improved drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha
of tertiary irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to
paddy land. Construction will be carried out under seven civil works
contracts and three were awarded, about 12 months behind schedule due to
shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 43 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The 1978 program for river training, water supply and rural



ANNEX II
-30-                     Page 6 of 14 pages
telephones was completed on schedule and the 1979 program progressed well.
Design work on the minor irrigation component is proceeding satisfactorily
and contracts have been awarded for 16 subprojects. The total area of the
irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,235 ha. As of December 31,
1979, disbursements were over 35% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Milion Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and
provide 460 MW of peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal
features of the project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han
River, a power plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated
transmission facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the
main dam; relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway,
protective works in the reservoir area including the raising of an existing
embankment of a cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation
of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families affected by the project;
and consulting services.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million Loan,
of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial Leasing
Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: March 21,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make sub-
loans to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects during the period
1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was relent by KDB to its
wholly-owned subsidiary, the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation (KILC). to
acquire machinery, equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to
investment enterprises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as
of December 31, 1979, disbursements were over 96% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78.
KDFC's performance has been very satisafctory. As of December 31, 1979,
disbursements were over 96% of the total loan amount.



ANNEX II
-31-                       Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased to $396 million as compared with the
appraisal estimate of $255 million. This is due to increases in scope to
enhance the project's ability to manufacture nuclear power plant; the
devaluation of the US dollar, and domestic inflation. The market prospects
for the project have been affected by licensing of other power plant
manufacturers in Korea. In order to deal with this problem and to strengthen
the financial viability of the project, the Government intends to transfer
responsibility for the project to another company. Details of the transfer
are being worked out between the parties involved and will be submitted to the
Bank for review. As of December 31, 1979, disbursements were nearly 70% of
the loan amount.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978: Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by MIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000. As of December 31, 1979, disbursements were 96% of the loan
amount.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
dlomestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's
subsidiary, the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of
subloans in order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects.
Overall progress is satisfactory. As of December 31, 1979, disbursements were
over 51% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project,
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6. 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order



ANNEX II
-32-                   Page 8 of 14 pages
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to $10.0
million of the proceeds of the proposed loan will be made available to the
Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated
to KDFC, by way of subloans.  As of December 31, 1979, about 59% of the loan
had been disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29. 1979: Effective Date:  June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After initial delays in finalizing specifications and bidding
documents for engineering, support and research equipment, the project
is progressing satisfactorily. Bids have been received and are being
evaluated for a major proportion of the equipment. The training program
is also under way.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods.  To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project:|1 $30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979,
Closing Date: June 30. 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal mortality,
particularly in rural areas. The project has been designed to reach out into
communities with primary care services, particularly maternal and child health
and family planning.  The major components are:  (a) improving the delivery
of health and family planning services by strengthening and expanding the
delivery network; (b) increasing demand for services by strengthening and
expanding information, education and communication activities in health and
/1 Not yet effective.



ANNEK II
-33-                   Page 9 of 14 pages
fanily planning; and (c) improving the program's evaluation and administra-
tion capacities. The principal beneficiaries will be mothers and children,
primiarily in rural areas, who do not have access to services.  It is esti-
mated that about 10 million people would be provided primary health care
services under the project, thus lowering fertility, mortality and morbidity.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906       Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13. 1973; Effective Date:
September 10. 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 85 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are
mainly used to finance equipment.  The Goverrnment is financing related
works. Project execution remains about two years behind schedule due to
initial delays and some project changes. The project is now making satis-
factory progress.  All the equipment has been contracted, and about 95%
delivered; furniture procurement has been completed; civil works were all
completed by the end of December 1978; and the fellowship program is well
underway. As of December 31, 1979, disbursements were completed under the
Credit and reached over 97% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Adrainistrator of Labor Affairs (ALA).  Project implementation is satisfactory.
Physical facilities and the technical assistance program have been completed.
Training operations have commenced in five VTIs. However, equipment procure-
ment under the MOE component is delayed by almost one year because of a
termporary shortage of counterpart funds.  Only about 75% of equipment has
been awarded and 60% delivered. Delays of equipment procurement under MOE
required a postponement of the Closing Date by one year. Estimated total
project cost now is expected to be below, but close to, the appraisal esti-
mate. As of December 31, 1979, disbursements were 82% of the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Ihe project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance, part of which is to be
provided by UNDP and Germany. The implementation schedule is about six months
behind original schedule. Civil works contracts have been awarded for six
of the eight VTIs and are virtually completed for two VTIs.  The completed



-34-                   ANNEK II
Page 10 of 14 pages
two VTIs started classes in September 1979. The seventh and eighth VTI will
be contracted early 1980. About 60% of equipment has been awarded and about
20% delivered. Five out of ten experts are in post and the fellowship
program has been completed. Disbursements have improved significantly in
1979 and amount to US$6.8 million or about 1.05% of the appraisal estimate.
As of December 31, 1979, disbursement was about 30% of the total loan.
Since management performance, particularly reporting to the Bank, was
recently unsatisfactory, the Bank urged the Project Director to improve
content of quarterly progress reports and speed up submission to the Bank
of information regarding contracting of civil works and equipment.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education:/1 $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21. 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The aim of the sector program is to improve the quality and
content of higher technical education in Korea, so that it can contribute
effectively to the country's technological needs in the eighties. The
sector program is to be financed under the loan, covers three aspects of
higher education, viz. engineering education, management education and tech-
nical training. The program will create a flexible system of supplying
technical skills, remove the principal constraints on quarterly improvement
and reduce the investment gap in private higher technical education.  The
overall program, of which a part would be financed under the proposed loan,
would comprise about 10 national programs for organizing, curricula and staff
development, and about 55 subprojects for development of physical facilities.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongju Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of January 4,
1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31. 1979
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city of
Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and telecom-
munication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 m of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drainage,
environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and a
school for training hotel personnel. The first two hotels with 600 rooms
were completed and opened for operation on April 1, 1978. Negotiations with
other private investors are under way for a third hotel and also for apart-
ments and restaurants in the Bomun resort area. The total amount of the
loan was expected to be disbursed by the Closing Date.
/1 Not yet effective.



35                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
January 15. 1975; Effective Date: August 18, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads, a city
market fishery harbor infrastructure and building complex and associated
electrical works have been completed}  Installation of refrigeration
and ice handling equipment at the fishery complex has experienced some
delays; the fishery complex is now expected to be fully operational by
March 1980. Construction of houses at all three sites has been completed
and the sites are fully occupied. After the initial delays, mainly in
fulfilling conditions of effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional
Development Unit, the project has moved extremely well. As of December 31,
1979, disbursement was about 79% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1758 /1  ChungJu Multipurpose Project,/1 $125 Million Loan of
December 27. 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial, and irrigation water in the Han Basin for about 20 years following
its completion in 1984. It would also substantially reduce flood damage,
generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and provide 460 MW
of peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal features of
the project include: a 90 m high concrete dam across the south Han River;
a power plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated trans-
mission facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the main
dam; relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway; protective
works in the reservoir area including the raising of an existing embankment
of a current plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation of a
resettlement program for some 9,300 families affected by the project; and
consulting services.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date:  September 18. 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Civil works and provision of equipment financed under the First
Port Project are completed.  Final estimated cost is $143 million including
101 ml-lion foreign exchange.  The excess foreign exchange requirement over
.



-36-                     ANNEK II
Page 12 of 14 pages
the $80 million provided by the Bank loan is being provided by a Saudi Fund
for Development loan of $35 million to the Korean Government; this loan was
based upon the revised foreign exchange requirements of $115 million arrived
at following the first large increase in the price of petroleum products.
The balance of the latter loan will be spent on additional civil works.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15. 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will help the Korean National Railraod (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the strengthen-
ing of its financial position. The main components of the project are: an
increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling; acquisi-
tion of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and
repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. All contracts to be financed from the loan have been
awarded and most of the equipment delivered. Over 97% of the loan proceeds
had been disbursed by December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b)
paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants started in January 1978, and are now proceeding
satisfactorily. As of December 31, 1979, disbursements were about 97% of
the total loan. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35
million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of:  (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container



ANNEX II
-37-                    Page 13 of 14 pages
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter warf
No. 5 were let in July and December 1979 respectively, following delay in
appointing the consultants for final engineering. Estimated costs have
increased to $170 million ($67 foreign exchange) compared with the appraisal
estimate of $112 ($70 foreign exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commer-
cial accounting from January 1, 1983. Traffic and specially containerized
general cargo traffic continues to increase at Busan.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. The
feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 has been carried out and
the transport sector studies are under way. As of December 31, 1979,
disbursements were about 63% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and bids on the remaining roads are scheduled
for August 1979. A contract for the study was signed, and work started,
in September 1979. However, due to budgetary constraints, the work is pro-
ceeding slower than originally scheduled.



-38-            ~~~ANNEX II
-38-                  Page 14 of 14 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 1758    Goleong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979: Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in KECO's power
development program to meet the load growth up to 1986. The project would
provide for the installation of two 500 MW coal/oil-fired units and associated
auxiliary equipment; coal handling and storage facilities, fuel oil tanks,
ash system and storage area, a fuel unloading dock for ships up to 100,000
DWT displacement; a pumping station and a 17 km steel pipe to transport
fresh water to the station; and a 160 km double circuit, 345 KV transmission
line between the power station and Seoul, and related terminal substations
and management consulting services. The project will enable KECO to meet
part of the increased demand of the interconnected system from 1984, and it is
expected that it will help to improve KECO's planning, organization, finances,
and the structure of electricity rates. An important benefit is the intro-
duction of advanced technology to Korea, through the participation of local
manufacturers in association with foreign companies, in the manufacture of
some of the main equipment.



ANNEX III
-39-                            Page 1
KOREA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    The project was prepared through
consultants during regular super-
vision of the ongoing Railway V
and VI Projects.
(b)  Agency which prepared the           Government and KNR.
project:
(c)  Date of the first Bank mission    February 1979
to consider the project:
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   September 10, 1979
(e)  Negotiations completed:             March 21, 1980
(f)  Planned date effectiveness:         August 15, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
No specific action is considered necessary
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The Government will establish a schedule for training its staff
to improve coordination and planning in the transport sector
(para. 40).
(b) Upon completion of the ongoing comprehensive national transport
study, the Government will execute the required follow-up transport
investment feasibility studies (para. 40).
(c)  The Government has established a date at which KNR will become a
Public Corporation, as well as a time phased plan for implementing
short- and mid-term measures that will enable this transformation
(para. 48).
(d) The Government will establish a time phased plan for implementing
a new tariff plan (para. 54).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) Specific financial targets and measures to monitor KNR's financial
situation (para. 57).
(f) The Government will undertake appropriate urban transport studies
in the extended urban areas of Seoul, Busan and other cities
(para. 63).
(g) The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and KNR whereby $87.8 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan
will be lent to KNR on the same terms and conditions which apply
to the Bank loan will be an additional condition of effectiveness
(para. 65).



,BRD 13133 R
5 or<US,SR J tp                        ]27'                      i 2 8                     129'             NOVEMBER 1979
/  X              N   R T H  K O R E A S|
C H I N                               NORTH  KOREA
Japan sea                                                                             ogcho       f           e
KOREA                                                                                                            Se 
RP OF
KOR A                          Pnujl
Ye/law
Pacii
t25'                      6                                                                              rN      mbo
Tftth- taths ba.r..pld bY t           Song          yg                           n u Ogeo
ttaostt   hc   tt5tt&hw.
hed - -s,na,s  asettad U.t
htattst5wnrttssttsstrvtct Ott} tbl t o e.?S\\2t
mwk t -ftsk as at )httta r aes
/drfIWlM B.k -ht7d5fUo 19.   <f-                      rB /                                                   eg  SMA _rat
stS eaatOO of aut hoasa
27~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-
37-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
36'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
N    4htb~~~~  atjainaUt
Y e I l o w S e ~~~~~~a- S n                                                                                    3f'
KOREMAO0h
hXktRtttWYS
AfttOORTb 
SPECIAL CtTtOh
-    fThtfNATIOhtAL bOt.tfARIEtk
20   40 6_            0    too   20   40   60
VitLOM6TtP0
Saog~~~~~po  ~0                   20       410       60        NO        00o
15'                         6                                                      v 2  NEl              WOPtK



