LOAN NUMBER 1836 KO
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Railway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBLR 1836 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           f                , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF KOREA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "KNR" means the Korean National Railroad and includes
the Office of Railroads established and operating under the
Government Organization Law, dated December 14, 1963, as amended;
(b) "Investment Plan" means all of KNR's capital expendi-
tures planned for the years 1977 through 1981, as agreed between
the Borrower, the Bank and KNR;
(c) "Prior Loan Agreements" mean the Loan Agreement No.
863-KO (Fourth Railroad Project) dated November 22, 1972, the
Loan Agreement No. 1101-KO (Fifth Railroad Project) dated
April 10, 1975; and the Loan Agreement No. 1542-KO (Sixth
Railway Project) dated April 10, 1978, all between the Republic
of Korea and the Bank;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and KNR pursuant to Section
3.03 of this Agreement;
(e) "EPB" means the Economic Planning Board of the Bor-
rower, or any successor thereto;


﻿-2-
(f) "MOT" means the Ministry of Transportation of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto; and
(g) "W" means Won, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ninety-four million dollars ($94,000,000).
Section, 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from tine to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-quarter per cent (8.25%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
-       Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan ir accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or shall cause KNR
to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate railroad, engineering, administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
January 1, 1987 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Bank, take all such action as shall be necessary to establish KNR
as a public corporation under the laws of the Borrower with
powers, inter alia, (i) to incur debt, (ii) to fix the emoluments
of its staff, (iii) to prepare and submit to MOT and EPB its
proposed budgets in a commercial form, (iv) to have reasonable
flexibility in adjusting approved operating budgets to meet cost
changes arising out of unexpected fluctuations in railroad
traffic, (v) to open and maintain an account with the Bank of
Korea for revenue receipts and payments of obligations,(vi) to
maintain its records in accordance with commercial accounting
procedures; and (vii) to make proposals relating to its tariff
structure.
(b) The Borrower shall implement such measures as shall
be agreed with the Bank as a first phase towards meeting the
objectives referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than January 1, 1984 or
such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, furnish to the
Bank for review a report on the measures taken and a plan for
additional measures, both legal and organizational, to be taken to
meet the objectives referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.03. (a) For the purposes of carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $88,200,000
of the proceeds of the Loan to KNR pursuant to a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and KNR, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank,


﻿including inter alia, interest at a rate identical to the rate
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement and repayment and
grace periods identical to those specified in the Amortization
Schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. In order to assist KNR in carrying out Part G
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause KNR to employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, or shall cause KNR to,
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, training programs, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shal , or shall cause KNR to: (i) maintain
records and procedures ade uate to record and monitor the progress
of the Project (includi   its cost and the benefits to b,- derived
from it), identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank


﻿-5-
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably recist concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall, and shall cause KNR to, prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, KNR and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
-       required for the construction and operation of the facilit-- s
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, prompcly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) complete and furnish
to the Bank for review, not later than June 30, 1982, feasibility
studies, by consultants whose qualifications and terms of
reference are acceptable to the Bank, of future transport invest-
ment projects for the period 1982-86; and (b) implement thereafter
such recommendations as shall be agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) complete and furnish
to the Bank for review, not later than June 30, 1982, a study,
by consultants whose qualifications and terms of reference are
acceptable to the Bank, of the urban transport needs of the
greater Seoul, Busan and other areas; and (b) implement thereafter
such recommendations as shall be agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1983, take all such action in consultation with the Bank as shall
be necessary to train the Borrower's staff in transport planning
and coordination.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or fo- the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest e-d other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause KNR to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently


﻿-7-
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of KNR.
(b) The Borrower shall cause KNR to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with approprIate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of KNR and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) Paragraph (b) (ii) of this Section shall supersede
any inconsistent provisions of the Prior Loan Agreements.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause KNR to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause KNR not later than
December 31, 1984 to establish a revised tariff structure accept-
able to the Bank.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause KNR to take all
necessary measures as shall be required by KNR to maintain working
capital satisfactory to the Bank, including attaining by Decem-
ber 31, 1983 a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of
not less than 1.5 and maintaining such ratio thereafter. For
purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "current assets" means cash, securities
readily convertible into cash, accounts receivable
realizable within one year and inventories, exclud-
ing those specificially required for investment in
fixed assets; and
(ii) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which


﻿- 8 -
will be due and payable, or could be called for
payment, within one year.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all action necessary to ensure that substantial changes
in KNR's Investment Plan shall only be made with the concurrence
of the Bank.
(b) For the purposes of this Section "substantial changes"
shall mean changes involving in the aggregate either an increase
or a decrease of more than twenty billion Won (W20,000,000,000)
in the estimated cost of the Investment Plan.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this Section shall supercede any
inconsistent provisions of the Prior Loan Agreements.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
KNR, or the Borrower acting on behalf of KNR, shall not incur any
long-term debt unless the net revenues of KNR for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence, or for a later twelve-month period
ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is greater, shall
be not less than 1.1 times the maximum debt service requirements
for any succeeding fiscal year on all long-term debt then out-
standing (including the long-term debt to be incurred). For the
purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under a
loan contract or agreement, on the date the loan
contract or agreement providing for such debt is
entered into, and (2) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee is entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross operating
revenues adjusted to take account of KNR's tar-
iffs in effect at the time of calculation even
though they were not in effect during the twelve
consecutive months to which such revenues related,
less operating and administrative expenses, in-
cluding provision for taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt;


﻿-9-
(iv) the term "'debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund cortributions, if any), interest and other
charges on debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by KNR, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Bank.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall supersede any
inconsistent provisions of the Prior Loan Agreements.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause KNR to take all
necessary measures (including but not limited to KNR's tariff
increases) satisfactory to the Bank as shall be required by KNR
to: (a) cover its operating costs (excluding depreciation) and
debt service requirements and finance a reasonable proportion
of its capital expenditures commencing fiscal year 1980; and
(b) earn an annual rate of return of not less than (i) 3.2% in
fiscal year 1980, (ii) 5.5% in fiscal years 1981 and 1982,
and (iii) 6% thereafter.
For the purposes of paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated in
respect of each fiscal year by relating the operat-
ing surplus for that year to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii) the term    "operating surplus" shall mean the
difference between (A) operating revenue and
(B) operating and administrative expenses, includ-
ing adequate maintenance and depreciation, but
excluding interest and other charges on debt and
income taxes (if any);
(iii) the term "value of the net fixed assets in opera-
tion" shall mean the gross value of fixed assets in


﻿- 10 -
operation less the accumulated depreciation, both
as valued from time to time in a-:ordance with
appropriate and consistently maintained methods
of valuation acceptable to the Bank;
(iv) the term "operating revenue" shall not include any
subsidies or reimbursements made by the Borrower to
KNR;
(v) the term "current assets" means cash, securities
readily convertible into cash, accounts receivable
realizable within one year and inventories, exclud-
ing those specifically required for investment in
fixed assets; and
(vi) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which
will be due and payable, or could be called for
payment, within one year.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause KNR to be managed and
operated at all times in accordance with appropriate business,
financial and railroad practices under the supervision of quali-
fied and experienced management and shall cause KNR to operate,
maintain, renew and repair its equipment and property included
in the Project, in accordance with appropriate engineering and
railroad practices.
Section 4.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause KNR to carry out a revaluation of KNR's fixed
assets on an annual basis, in accordance with appropriate and
consistently maintained methods of valuation acceptable to the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that any amendment to the
Government Organization Law shall occur or any other action shall
be taken by the Borrower so as to substantially affect the
organization, functions and operations of KNR without the Bank
having, in advance thereof, notified the Borrower of its con-
currence therewith.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and KNR, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate
action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and KNR,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and KNR
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                19; (4 30  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Economic Planning Board
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning
Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul, Korea


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I.   Equipment and
materials for:
(1) Part C of
the Project:
Rails and              18,350,000
track main-
tenance
equipment
(a) directly                             100% of for-
imported                             eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-                        100% of local
factured                             expenditures
ex-factory
(2) Part D of
the Project:
Breakdown               53,850,000
cranes, pas-
senger cars
and freight
cars
(a) directly                             100% of for-
imported                            eign expendi-
tures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(b) locally manu-                        100% of local
factured                             expenditures
ex-factory
(3) Part E of the
Project:
Shop equipment            2,080,000
(a) directly                             100% of for-
imported                            eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-                        100% of local
factured                             expenditures
ex-factory
II. Miscellaneous
(4) Part G of the                 1,900,000
Project:
(a) overseas                             100% of for-
training                            eign expendi-
tures
(b) consultants'                         100%
services
(5) Part H of the                 5,800,000
Project:
(a) overseas                             100% of for-
training                            eign expendi-
tures
(b) consultantst                         100%
services
(6) Unallocated                   12,020,000
TOTAL              94,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any, item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 16 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any wav restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist the Borrower's transport capabili-
ties and consists of the following:
Part A:   New Line Construction
Construction of two new industrial sidings.
Part B:   Increase in Station and Line Capacity
(1) Completion of the quadrupling of the section Seoul-
Suweon (about 32.3 km) of the Gyeong Bug line, mainly to
carry increased suburban traffic.
(2) Expansion of the West Seoul freight terminal at Susaeg,
mainly for improved handling of coal, cement and con-
tainers.
(3) Installation of centralized traffic control system (CTC)
on the Jung Ang line between Yeongju and Gyeongju (about
163 km) and on the Tae Baeg line (about 107 km).
Part C:   Way and Structure Renewals and Improvements
(1) Rail renewal on about 210 km of track and complete track
renewal on about 110 km of track.
(2) Provision of about 70,000 concrete sleepers, about 200
points and crossings and about 70,000 cu m of ballast.
(3) Bridge and tunnel strengthening, right-of-way improve-
ments, stabilization of soils, drainage work and anti-
erosion measures.
(4) Separation of road and rail at level crossings when
road/rail traffic densities reach levels set by the
Borrower.
(5) Provision of equipment for track maintenance and
track material workshops.


﻿- 18 -
Part D:   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
(1) Provision and placing in service of about 10 main
line diesel locomotives, 12 diesel and 16 electric
railcars for intercity traffic and 130 electric rail-
cars, provision of two breakdown cranes and repowering/
repair of about 40 diesel locomotives, 40 diesel rail-
cars and 40 heating cars.
(2) Provision and placing in service of about 20 special
express cars and 226 limited express passenger cars,
remodeling of older existing cars for use as ordinary
passengers and baggage cars.
(3) Provision and placing in service of about 100 con-
tainer cars and remodeling of freight cars for use
as cabooses.
Part E:   Motive Power and Rolling Stock Repair Facilities
(1) Provision of subsidiary shops (machinery shop, electric
shop and coupler shon) for the new Daejon passenger and
freight car shops.
(2) Improvement to existing workshops and running sheds.
Part F:   Telecommunications, Power Facilities and Miscellaneous
(1) Improvement to telecommunications and power supplies.
(2) Relocation of the railroad school from Central Seoul
to Bugog, construction of housing for employees and
provision of hospital equipment.
Part G:   Technical Assistance and Training
(1) Implementation of recommendations in the management
study carried out under Loan Agreement No. 1101-KO
(Fifth Railroad Project) dated April 10, 1975 between
the Borrower and the Bank.
(2) Provision of overseas training.


﻿- 19 -
Part H:   Studies and Training
(1) Studies of transport investments in the next five
year plan for the period 1982-86 upon completion of
the national comprehensive transport study.
(2) Urban transport studies.
(3) Training of staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning January 15, 1985
through   January 15, 1997                  3,615,000
And on July 15, 1997                             3,625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dol2ars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                          2.90%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                          5.35%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                          7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                8.25%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and services shall he procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procu7ement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter callea
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Equipment and materials included in the Project shall be
grouped so as to permit bulk procurement as shall be consistent
with appropriate technical and procurement practices.
3.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of othel.
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 23 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Korea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids effering goods manufactured in
Korea if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Korea equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 24 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c0i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of s-ich price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. If prequalification is required
by the Bank, the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed, and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a. statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished b; the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and
the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request,
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that


﻿- 25-
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
or issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the
contract by more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower
shall inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if
it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   -4Zlday of /W , 198       .
FOR SECRETARY


