Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3162-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
TENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
November 23, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of
reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as intervention cur-
rency. On November 18, 1981, the exchange rate was set at Tk 36.225 buying
and Tk 36.325 selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on exchange rate move-
ments between Sterling and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar cross-rate is
subject to change. In recent months, this rate has fluctuated between Tk 18
and Tk 19 per US$. Unless otherwise specified, the rates shown below have
been used throughout this report:
US$                    -      Tk 19.00
Tk 1                   -      US$0.0526
Tk 1 million           =      US$52,632
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                          =   0.405 hectares
I maund (md)                         -   37.3261 kg
I seer (sr)                          -   0.933 kg
1 (long) ton                         -   27.22 maunds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP    -  Annual Development Program
AGD    -  Approved Grain Dealer
BADC   -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BKB    -  Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BWDB   -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
DF     -  Department of Food
DTW    -  Deep Tubewell
EFF    -  Extended Fund Facility
FFPMS  -  Food and Fertilizer Planning and Monitoring Secretariat
FPMU   -  Food Policy Monitoring Unit
GOB    -  Government of Bangladesh
HTW    -  Hand Tubewell
HYV    -  High-Yielding Variety
IRDP   -  Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS    -  Krishi Samabaya Samiti (Agricultural Cooperative Society)
LIV    -  Local Improved Variety
LLP    -  Low-Lift Pump
MOF    -  Ministry of Food
MTFPP  -  Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (FY81-FY85)
PFDS   -  Public Foodgrain Distribution System
SFYP   -  Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85)
STW    -  Shallow Tubewell
TCCA   -  Thana Central Cooperative Association
SPECIAL TERMS USED
Aman   -  rice planted before or during the monsoon (which begins
in June) and harvested in November-January; B. aman
is broadcast aman, T. aman is transplanted aman
Aus    -  rice planted during March-April and harvested during
July-August
Boro   -  rice planted in winter and harvested during April-June
Thana  -  administrative unit comprising between 6 and 15 villages
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT SUMMARY      ...................    ...............................    i
PART I - THE ECONOMY ..............          ..............................    I
Introduction ........     ............................1.............. 
Recent Developments and Short-Term  Outlook ...............                2
The Balance of Payments ...... .................                           3
Public Finance ...............                                            4
Development Planning and Policy Issues .............                       5
The Need for Program Aid ......         ..........................         7
Relations with the IMF ...... .................                            9
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH ...............       ...    10
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR: PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES ....   11
A.  Background ..............................................    11
B.  Agricultural Production Strategy ............    .............   12
C.  Foodgrain Policy ..........................................   13
Public Procurement ......................................   14
Public Distribution and Subsidies ..          .....................   15
PART IV - THE CREDIT  ...........................................   15
Foodgrain Policy Issues ...       ....................................   17
Agricultural Policy Issues        ....................................   22
Administration of the Proposed Credit ......        ...................   27
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY ........................   28
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION . ...................................... .   28
ANNEX I        Country Data. ........           ..     ..                   29
ANNEX II       The Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh    34
ANNEX III      Supplementary Credit Data and Listing of Policy
Issues and Measures   .               .47
ANNEX IV       The Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP)    50
ANNEX V        Progress Report on the Ninth Imports Program Credit   59
ANNEX VI       Utilization by Sector of Previous Imports Program
Credits ..     ...     ...........64
ANNEX VII  Use of Fund Resources    .                    .65
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
TENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:               People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:                 SDR 87.4 million (US$100.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard.
Purpose:                The proposed credit would (i) provide foreign exchange
for the import of raw materials, chemicals, components,
equipment and other inputs to enable the industrial,
construction and agricultural sectors to improve their
capacity utilization and increase their output; and
(ii) support the policy improvements introduced or
planned by GOB to increase the production and the
efficiency and equity of the distribution of foodgrains
and, thus, to improve the overall conditions for
economic growth in Bangladesh.
Estimated
Disbursements                                 FY82             FY83
(million US$):
First Quarter                             20
Second Quarter           -                20
Third Quarter           20                15
Fourth Quarter          20                 5
Annual Total            40                60
Cumulative Total        40              100



- ii -
Recommended Eligibility Categories and Withdrawal Ceilings
(US$ million)
Estimated
Average Annual       Maximum Amount
Import Require-      of the Credit
ments in            that can be
FY82-FY83            Withdrawn
INDUSTRIES
Raw materials, spare parts,
components, chemicals and
packaging materials for:
1.  Cotton Textile Industry                   135.0               25.0
2.  Pulp & Paper and Board Industries          20.0               10.0
3.  Export-Oriented Industries                 18.0               10.0
(excluding jute industry)
4.  Rolling and Foundry Industries            100.0               20.0
5.  Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industries 135.0                  20.0
6.  Sugar Industry                             40.0                3.0
7.  Fertilizer Industry                        20.0               10.0
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
8. Cement and Qther intermediate
building materials (excluding
clinker)                                60.0                25.0
AGRIGULTURAL INPUTS
9.  Pesticides                                 12.0                4.0
10.  Fertilizers                                55.0 /a            20.0
11.  Diesel Fuel                                25.0               10.0
/a   Estimated imports requirements gap for FY82 after allowing for
firm commitments and indications from donors as of October 1, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
TENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Tenth Imports Program Credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for
SDR 87.4 million (the equivalent of US$100.0 million), on standard terms,
to finance the import of agricultural production inputs and of raw materials
and spare parts required by specific high-priority industries.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Situa-
tion and Review of the Second Five-Year Plan" (Report No. 3309-BD, dated
February 23, 1981) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Production in both agriculture and manufacturing
fell drastically and recovered to the pre-independence level only in the
mid-1970s. Foodgrain imports averaging over two million tons per year were
required between FY72 and FY75 to maintain average consumption levels near
minimum requirements. The terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters of relief and rehabil-
itation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial
administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be scrapped and
replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore Programme"
(FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the 1970s provided planners the opportunity to turn their attention
from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of development.
Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 30% in real terms (or about 5.5%
p.a.) despite several serious setbacks in agricultural production. Output in
manufacturing (as measured by the production index for large and medium-scale
industries) rose by about 7.5% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this
growth taking place outside the jute industry. The late 1970s may be seen,
therefore, as a period of economic consolidation. The Two-Year Plan (FY79-
FY80) was intended as an opportunity to complete this economic consolidation
and to reconsider development priorities before the country embarked on its
Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85).



-2-
5.         The past few years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial law.  In
elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the new National Assembly. Roughly two thirds of the seats were
won by the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur
Rahman, who had won the presidential election in June 1978.  Thirty addi-
tional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently filled hk  -he BNP.  The
new Parliament convened in March 1979 and martial law was lifLed. In May
1981 President Ziaur Rahman was assassinated. The Vice-President, Mr. Justice
Abdus Sattar was named Acting President and subsequently won the presidential
elections held on No-vember 15, 1981.
Recent Developments and Short-tern Outlook
6.         The severe drought of 1979 affected adversely four successive rice
crops as well as the size and quality of the FY80 jute crop.  This had sig-
nificant repercussions throughout the economy. The shortfall in foodgrain
supplies led to a rapid rise in rice prices, and inflation accelerated to an
annual rate of about 18% in the first half of FY80. The rate of growth of GDP
fell considerably, and inequity in income distribution increased as the lower
income groups were the most affected by the foodgrain shortages and rapidly
rising prices. The balance of payments, which had been in overall surplus in
FY79, deteriorated markedly in FY80, mainly as a consequence of costly food
and petroleum purchases. GDP growth in FY79 and FY80 averaged no more than
4.0% p.a.; with population growth estimated at about 2.7% annually, per capita
incomes improved only moderately.
7.         The disappointing overall economic performance in FY79 and FY80,
which again demonstrated the vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy to un-
favorable weather conditions, somewhat overshadowed a number of encouraging
developments and positive policy steps during this period. These included:
(i) the successful mobilization and distribution of nearly 2 million tons of
imported foodgrains in the first half of FY80; (ii) continued rapid growth
in wheat production and in fertilizer consumption; (iii) a variety of policy
measures taken to improve agricultural input availabilities, maintain incen-
tive output prices for farmers, strengthen the administration of the family
planning program, and foster a more active role by the private sector in
essential sectors of the economy; (iv) increased capacity utilization in
several industries; (v) improved budgetary performance, reflecting a streng-
thened tax administration, some reductions in subsidies and discipline in
curtailing recurrent expenditures; (vi) substantial growth in n.on-traditional
exports and in workers remittances; and (vii) exchange rate adjustments and
other measures taken to encourage exports.
8.         Favorable weather and several years of stepped-up provision of
agricultural production inputs helped turn the foodgrain sucply situation
around in FY81: aggregate rice production for the year increased by about 9%
over the disappointing FY80 level and reached a record of 13.7 million tons,
while wheat production continued to expand rapidly and totalled some 11 mil-
lion tons. The jute crop, on the other hand, was small, as  arTmers responded
to the low prices they had receiLved for their output during thc  preceding



-3-
year. Agricultural output as a whole rose by about 8.1% in real terms. As
the industrial and service sectors also recovered from their low FY80 per-
formance, overall growth for the year is estimated to have been on the order
of 7.3%.
9.        Notwithstanding these improvements in domestic production, the very
tight balance of payments situation and the serious budgetary difficulties
which had arisen during FY80 continued into FY81. The latter stemmed largely
from the unexpectedly limited availability of commodity aid, an unanticipated
shortfall in debt service payments from public sector corporations, and from
the substantial expenditures required to build up foodgrain stocks and to
maintain incentive farmgate prices in a record crop year. Budgetary con-
straints arising from foodgrain operations are expected to ease significantly
in FY82, but the severely depleted non-project aid pipeline will remain a
pressing constraint on the budget. Sharply higher petroleum import prices,
reduced export prices for jute goods and the considerable shortfall in com-
modity aid availabilities in FY81 and projected for FY82 are the main causes
of the precarious balance of payments situation. IDA consistently has recom-
mended to other aid donors that increased commodity aid will be required,
particularly as Bangladesh's progress towards self-sufficiency in foodgrains
will lead to a gradual reduction in food aid requirements and in counterpart
funds generated by food aid.
10.        The promotion of increased foodgrain production is a principal
concern of the Government. The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) gives top
priority to the expansion of foodgrain production, aiming at self-sufficiency
in foodgrains by the end of the Plan period. The experience of FY79 and early
FY80 served to highlight the importance of reducing the threat of crop fail-
ures and widespread famine. To a large extent, the increased production in
FY81 has been attributable to favorable weather, but the Government deserves
credit for a large part of the improved performance attributable to increased
investment in irrigation and other agricultural infrastructure, increased
capacity utilization, and improved input delivery. In the realm of foodgrain
policy, moreover, significant progress has been made in reducing the extent
of statutory rationing, changing the ration mix, raising the ration price,
initiating open market sales, expanding procurement facilities, reducing input
subsidies, and shifting responsibility for the distribution of inputs to the
private sector.     -
The Balance of Payments
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings in
FY81 represented merely 6% of GDP and only 28% of the import bill. Moreover,
Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute and jute goods,
which together account for two thirds of total export earnings. A sharp
decline in export prices of raw jute, jute goods, leather and fish caused
export earnings to stagnate in FY81 despite a substantial increase in export
volume. Import payments, on the other hand, rose rapidly through FY81 --
largely as a result of rising import costs of petroleum, petroleum products
and capital goods. Capital goods imports currently account for one fourth of



-4-
total imports, while petroleum and petroleum products imports, although
increasing only very slowly in volume since the early 1970s, account for
almost 20% of total import payments and were equivalent to almvst two thirds
of export earnings in FY81L The balance of payments, thus, re-mained under
severe pressure in FY81, in large part because of declining juoe goods prices,
higher petroleum prices, sharply deteriorating terms of tradB  lad a shortfall
in coumodiLy aid availabilities.
12.       The current account deficit in recent years (US$1.48 billion in
FY80 and US$1.45 billion in FY81) has been considerably smaller than the trade
deficit, owing mainly to the rapid growth of workers' remittances from the
Middle East. These receipts are now the second most important source of for-
eign exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods exports.  The payments gap
is largely covered by aid disbursements which totalled US$12 3 billion in FY80
and an estimated US$1.15 in FY81 (roughly half of merchandise imports). In
addition, Bangladesh has made extensive use of IMF resources, including most
recentl,y through an SDR 800 million EFF Arrangement which became effective in
December 1980 but was temporarily suspended in July 1981 (see paras. 34-37
below).
13 .    Debt service payments totalled US$94 million in FY80 a->d US$93 million
in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio was about 12.3% in FY80 following
some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors, but 4inreased to about
13.1% again in FY81; it might exceed 20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt
management policies are pursued and aid is provided on appro-priately conces-
sional terms, Bangladesh's total outstanding and disbursed external public
debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of June 30, 1931, with IDA
credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30.2% of the _otal.  In FY81,
the Bank Group accounted for 11.3% of Bangladesh's total debt service payments;
because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA credits, debt service to
the Bank Group will rise slowly.
14.       Project aid disbursements have increased substantially during the
past three years, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity,
but there has been a crucial shortfall in commodity aid availabilities and new
commitments.  Reserves had to be drawn down by US$150 million in FY80 to help
finance the remaining payments deficit, and only the provision of EFF resources,
the curtailment of commodity imports well below targeted levels, and some short-
term borrowing during the last quarter prevented further reserve drawdowns in
FY81. At the end of June 1981, reserves stood at US$231 mil-i_on, barely suffi-
cient for one month of merchandise imports, and by October they had fallen to
about $130 million. In FY82, the Government again faces the difficult prospect
of limited commodity aid availabilities and export earnings potential. As a
consequence, imports will have to be reduced below FY81 levels in real terms.
Public Finance
15.       Government finances had improved considerably in FY73, but the budget
cama under stress in FY80, largely as a result of expenditures for investments
in foodgrain stocks and the shortfall in commodity aid receio-s.  The budgetary
situation deteriorated further in FY81, partly for the same reasons as in FY80,
and partly due to lower than expected contributions by the major public sector



- 5 -
corporations to the revenue budget. Faced with the choice of either effecting
sharp cuts in budgeted development outlays (originally targeted to increase by
31% in current prices) or resorting to domestic bank financing significantly
larger than would have been consistent with established credit ceilings and
monetary policy objectives, the Government chose to reduce the development
budget by about 13%. The final deficit for FY81 nevertheless substantially
exceeded even revised forecasts and necessitated deficit financing of about
Taka 5 billion from the domestic banking system, well above the limits set
in the context of the EFF Arrangement with the IMF.
16.       Further improvements in the mobilization of domestic resources are
needed if the ratio of public investment to GDP is to be raised above the
level of recent years and monetary stability is to be ensured. This task
is wide-ranging. It will need to involve broadening the tax base on domestic
incomes and output, strengthening tax administration, improving the financial
performance of public sector enterprises and utilities, and reducing the major
subsidies. The latter task has to be carried out with due regard for both
equity considerations and the impact on producers incentives and future output
growth. A Tax Enquiry Commission was appointed in 1977 and its final report
was submitted to the Government in April 1979. A start has been made in imple-
menting some of its recommendations, especially concerning improvements in
income tax administration.
17.       The Government has also shown a growing awareness of the need to
improve the financial performance of the public sector enterprises and utili-
ties and to reduce the major subsidies. In recent years, it has raised food-
grain ration prices, and a number of utility rates and commodity sales prices
of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer prices, for example, were increased
by an average of 28% in August 1979 and a further 24% in November 1980. Issue
prices for foodgrains from public stocks were increased in May 1979, in May
1980 and again in April 1981 by a combined 55%, as the Government moved toward
a gradual elimination of the consumer subsidy on foodgrains. In some cases,
these price adjustments only kept pace with inflation, but in others--notably
the fertilizer and foodgrain subsidies--they served to reduce the unit subsidy
in real terms. Petroleum product prices were raised by up to 45% in November
1979, by a further 45% in July 1980 and by another 9% in May 1981--adjustments
which eliminated the subsidy on this account during FY81.
18.       Foodgrain prices remained stable during FY81, but the cost of other
essentials continued to increase and pushed the general cost-of-living index
up by about 9% for FY81 as a whole. Measured by the implicit GDP deflator,
aggregate inflation -- which had spurted from a rate of 6.5% in FY79 to 17.3%
in FY80 -- declined substantially in FY81 to only about 8%. The outlook for
FY82, however, is for a renewed increase in inflationary pressure, partly
because of the rapid liquidity expansion during the second half of FY81.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.       The Second Five-Year Plan (issued in draft form in May 1980) accords
top priority to three major goals: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in
foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase



- 6 -
to an annual amount of 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reductionr of the popuLa-
tion growth rate with a view of bringing the net reproduction rate down to
unity by the year 1990; and (iii) progress towards mass literacy through the
vehicle of free universal primary education. Enhanced priority is also to be
given to energy development, particularly through accelerated exploitation of
known reserves of natural gas.
20.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is
considerable.  Yields and cropping intensity are well below potential levels,
fertilizer application rates are modest, and surface and groundwater resources
would permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large unsatisfied
demand for irrigation. Where irrigation is available, the increase in fer-
tilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice and from dry
season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The growth of fertilizer
consumption and of wheat acreage and production during the past few years have
been among the most notable positive developments in Bangladesh agriculture
and justify some optimism concerning the ability of the country to achieve
self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future.
21.       The Government has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-
Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which provides an investment portfolio
geared towards the attainment of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of food-
grains. 1/ While this target is feasible, its achievement will be possible
only if the Government allocates the resources required to provide the inputs
needed by the farmers and permits the private sector to play a substantial
role in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural implements and
inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of foreign aid to
finance imported inputs, improved farmer extension and training, and appro-
priate producer incentives.
22.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far. Recent projections indicate that unless the net reproduction rate is
brought down more rapidly than present trends indicate, the population of
Bangladesh, estimated at almost 93 million in January 1981, could rise to 146
million by the year 2000. Birth control efforts have suffered thus far from
poor implementation and have had only limited success. Recently, however,
there has been some encouraging progress. The coordination of birth control
activities within the Government is improving, while training programs for
field staff have been revised and are now, for the first time, considered
adequate.  With Bank assistance, GOB will prepare a medium-term implementa-
tion plan for its population program. Vigorous pursuit of the measures that
have been identified to improve performance should enable GOB to come gradually
to grips with the population problem.
23.       The third of the central objectives of the SFYP is the drive for
general literacy.  The planners recognize that its attainment will take longer
than five years, but they have set themselves the target of introducing uni-
versal primary education and enrolling 90X of all children of primary-school
1/   See Annex IV for a summary description of the MlTFPP.



-7-
age by 1985.  This program is to be supplemented by a national non-fo;;1E,
mass education scheme for those already past primary-school age0 A eMediUrm-
term plan for implementing a cohesive education policy is under preparation
with assistance from IDA.
24.       A Plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past  rends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skiiAs, TYen
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a
significant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn
will require sizeable increases in the mobilization of domescc and ex=;crnal
resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which project imple-
mentation capabilities are improved.  Although immediate improvements can  se
made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be arde-
quate to achieve the targeted breakthrough.  The Government recognizes that
in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the private
sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such as eduica-
tion and rural development should be carried out in a decentralized fashion,
with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots participation. i
25.       Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA,
GOB and other organizations have concluded that existing trade art industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocation within the irdlus-
trial sector. In a number of instances, the effects of present trade and
industrial policies on resource allocation have been different from, and in
some cases contradictory to, the Government's announced and intended poli cy
objectives.  The Government is now preparing a program for Trade and 7ndus-
trial Policy (TIP) Reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in
the tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanisms for industrial promotion1 arnd
planning. At the Government's request, recent IDA missions have assisted
GOB in formulating and designing the TIP reform program.
The Need for Program Aid
26.       The need for program lending to Bangladesh is well established and
arises from the inadequacy of the country's domestic savings to finance 5Its
investments and the- equal inadequacy of its export earnings to cover comatd.iy
import requirements.  A large inflow of external capital is required :iE--ly to
sustain a very modest growth of per capita income. In spite of substantial
improvements in domestic financial resource mobilization efforts over the
past five years, monetized savings currently constitute only about 2% of GDPo
Thus, although monetized investment, at around 13% of GDP, is far belo- nw d.
external assistance is financing over 80% of this total.  Foreign na  -L
directly and indirectly in the form of counterpart funds generated lby f-_5
and commodity aid, finances about 85% of the development budget.
27.       A corollary of this savings/investment disequilibrium is a s-m -
larly severe imbalance in the country's external payments position.  Expcrz
1/   A full review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained an .he
Bank's 1981 economic report, No. 3309-BD, dated February 23, 198'1.



- 8 -
earnings during FY78-81 averaged only 33% of import payments. Mainly as a
result of the increased cost of petroleum products and the sharp decline in
export prices of jute goods from their temporary high in FY80, the terms of
trade deteriorated significantly in FY81, and exports in FY81 accounted for
only 28% of total merchandise imports.
28.       Since there are limits to the extent that the components of any coun-
try s development program can be formed into projects suitable for external
financing, it is impossible to transfer to Bangladesh the amcunt of external
assistance required to sustain a modest rate of growth by means of project
financing alone. In Bangladesh, the share of externally aided projects does
not usually exceed 50-60% of the total annual development program, and since
external financing rarely exceeds 75% of total project cost, the limit for
project financing is reached when it approaches an amount equivalent to 40-45%
of total development expenditures. Substantial program assistance is there-
fore required to provide the additional external financing needed if the
development program is to be carried out.
29.       The need for non-project aid will continue to grow over the next
several years. If GDP is to grow at a 5% rate during FY81-85, a target which
is feasible if the growth of agricultural output can be further accelerated,
the investment rate will need to be increased to about 17% of GDP. Even with
successful domestic resource mobilization efforts, monetized national savings
are unlikely to rise to more than 5-6% of GDP, or about 30-35% of total invest-
ment; this leaves some 65-70% of investment (equivalent to 11-12% of GDP) to
be financed by foreign aid--about the same proportion of aid to GDP as pre-
vails at present. While significant progress has been made in recent years
in expanding the country-s ability to absorb project aid, the share of project
aid in the total investment program is unlikely to rise above 40-45%, as noted
above, leaving 20-30% of the investment program to be financed through non-
project aid. Furthermore, to the extent that Bangladesh succeeds in its drive
to become self-sufficient in foodgrain production, food aid will decline over
the course of the next five years. This will add to the need for program
assistance.
30.       As discussed earlier, similar structural constraints exist in the
pattern of external trade. Without program assistance, the supply of imported
essential raw materials and intermediate goods would have to be curtailed
greatly and production in the industrial sector would be reduced substantially.
Even with growing import substitution in the case of foodgrains and fertil-
izers, the trade gap is expected to widen because of increasing needs for
capital goods and raw materials imports to sustain the growth of the economy,
the poor prospects for increasing earnings from jute and jute goods exports,
the very small base from which non-traditional exports are now beginning to
grow, and the generally unfavorable outlook for Bangladesh-s terms-of-trade
over the next few years.
31.       Bangladesh's need for program aid has long been recognized by the
aid donors. Nevertheless, there has been a significant decline in commodity
aid commitments in FY80 and FY81 as compared with FY79: while donors have
been rapidly increasing the volume of direct project financing in response
to Bangladesh's improving absorptive capacity for project aid, in the context
of relatively slower growth in overall aid availabilities this has resulted



-9-
in an unwelcome reduction in the share of commodity aid in total commitments.
This reduced availability of commodity aid was one of the factors necessitating
substantial cuts in planned FY81 development expenditures as the Government
sought to avoid excessive deficit financing and meet its monetary policy
objectives.
32.       There is a strong case at this time for continuing to link IDA pro-
gram aid to policy improvements in the agricultural sector and to foodgrain
production and distribution policies in particular. Without a breakthrough
in agricultural performance there is no prospect for more rapid overall growth
of the economy. GOB has in recent years undertaken to rationalize its policies
in a number of areas of agricultural and food policy and the effects have been
positive. Most recently, in the context of Imports Program Credit IX, a
variety of actions were taken to increase budgetary allocations for agricul-
tural development, promote private sector participation in the provision of
inputs and the distribution of outputs and improve agricultural planning and
monitoring. The proposed credit seeks to build on these foundations and take
advantage of the momentum generated to achieve further policy and institutional
reforms.
33.       The prospects for significant and immediate improvements in the
policy areas identified under the proposed credit are good and are likely to
result in measurable progress in some of the most essential subsectors of the
economy: increased foodgrain production; containment of inflationary pressures
in the economy as a whole; strengthening of the Government's budgetary posi-
tion; improving private sector mobilization of financial and entrepreneurial
resources for development activities; and increasing assumption of responsi-
bility for the supply, distribution, financing, servicing and managing of
essential agricultural production inputs by the private sector. At the same
time, the commodity imports to be financed through the proposed credit will
help improve capacity utilization, productivity, output and export earnings in
selected industries. Progress on these fronts will enable Bangladesh to move
towards meeting fundamental longer-term adjustment objectives such as those
underlying its EFF Arrangement with the IMF.
Relations with the IMF
34.       Bangladesh's need for program-type assistance is reflected in its
relations with the IMF. Bangladesh has made extensive use of IMF resources
under the oil and compensatory financing facilities, under a Standby Arrange-
ment for SDR 85 million concluded in early FY80, and under a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) Arrangement for SDR 800 million which became
effective in December 1980. 1/
35.       The EFF program aims at supporting Bangladesh's development objec-
tives through the adoption of appropriate policies and measures designed to
achieve fiscal, monetary and external payments stability. Particular emphasis
is to be given to accelerating public sector financial resource mobilization
through broadening the tax base, introducing new tax measures and improving
1/ Bangladesh's use of Fund resources is summarized in Annex VII.



- 10 -
the financial performance of public sector enterprises and uitilities; increas-
ing private savings and investment; and strengthening the external payments
position through adjustments in the exchange rate to more realistic long-run
levels and through a package of incentives and policy reformi  to encourage
increased non-traditional exports and workers' remittances,  The program also
includes credit ceilings designed to limit borrowing by the Government and
by public sector corporations as well as the growth of domestic credit and
of total liquidity in the economy to rates consistent with a modest domestic
inflation rate of no more than about 11% per annum.
36.       The specific policies outlined for the first year of the EFF pro-
gram were framed into a set of quarterly performance targets through September
1981. While the Government has taken a nutmber of actions to implement this
program, actual performance and achievements during FY81 with regard to bud-
getary and credit policies have fallen short of agreed targets under the EFF
program (see para. 15). Consequently, drawings under the EFF were suspended
in July, while the Government attempted to bring the budget deficit and
domestic credit expansion within the quarterly ceilings set for September
1981. An IMF mission is scheduled to visit Bangladesh for review and dis-
cussions of the EFF program in November/December.
PART II - BA2( GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
37.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971; in addition, a consolidation loan and credit to cover liabilities
arising from projects located in Bangladesh and completed prior to indepen-
dence was agreed upon in 1975. Since independence, 54 new credits have been
approved (as of October 31, 1981), totaling US$1,632.7 million; of these,
US$665 million have been for import credits (nine imports program credits and
two fertilizer import credits). Annex II contains a summary statement of the
Bank loan and the IDA credits and disbursements as of September 30, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 19769 Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and three investments (for a shipbuilding company,
an investment promotion company and a leather factory) have been approved.
38.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(18 of the 43 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects
that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities. In
addition to agriculture projects, emphasis is also being placed upon comple-
mentary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy' s overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA plans to emohasize rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity or distri-
bution facilities which have been a major impediment to utili2a-ion of existing
industrial capacity.



11 -
39.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capa-
city. The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and
a second population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
40.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the nine imports program
credits approved to date, but has also benefited from two fertilizer produc-
tion projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, several DFC and small-
scale industry projects and three IFC loans (para. 37).
41.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Progress
has been made recently on these issues and disbursement performance is improv-
ing. IDA and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring and
supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under technical assis-
tance credits to improve planning, project preparation and implementation
capabilities.
42.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, industrial
investment strategy, and increased domestic resource mobilization and have
been undertaken in the context of the recent detailed review of the Govern-
ment's Second Five-Year Plan.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR: PERFORMANCE AND POLICIES
A. Background
43.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for
more than half of GDP, about 70% of employment and, directly or indirectly,
over 80% of the country's earnings from merchandise exports. About 73% of
agricultural value added in FY81 was derived from crops, while forestry con-
tributed 5%, fisheries 7% and livestock 15%. Cf the country's gross area
of about 35 million acres, about 22.6 million acres are cultivated at a
cropping intensity averaging 140% in recent years. Rice, by far the most
important crop, accounts for close to 80% of the gross cropped area, and
jute, the principal cash crop and foreign exchange earner, for 5-6%. Agri-
cultural productivity in Bangladesh is still very low, although the average
rice yield of 1.3 tons per hectare achieved in FY81 was 15% above the
average yields of FY66-FY70.



- 12 -
44.       Recent agricultural sector performance is discussed in paras. 6-10
above. As noted there, the effects of the 1979 drought and of widespread
flooding in 1980 again demonstrated the country's vulnerability to the vagaries
of weather and largely negated the positive impact of improved input deliveries
and utilization achieved during the past several years. Foodg-rain production
in FY81, in contrast, was extremely good, reaching a record level of 14.8
million tons. This reflected not only improved weather, but also the effect
of Government policy actions and improved performance in agricultural input
delivery and utilization, as well as farmers' increasing confidence in the
Government's determination and ability to ensure minimum incentive prices at
harvest time through direct foodgrain purchases.
45.       There is, however, cause for concern about Bangladesh's prospects
for sustaining this growth in foodgrain production. The margins between offi-
cial procurement prices and production costs appear to be adequate to provide
the necessary incentive to increased production, but despite greatly stepped
up procurement by the Government wholesale prices for paddy were as much as
15% below the procurement price 1/ during most of the FY81 aman procurement
season. Farmers' incentives to make a maximum effort for boro and wheat
production in the FY81 dry season were eroded by this unfavorable price trend,
and the utilization of fertilizer and of irrigation facilities fell consider-
ably short of Government targets. As a result, and due to damaging spring
rains, actual output of both boro and wheat was somewhat lower than had been
anticipated on the basis of initial sowing reports. GOB has been fully aware
of the potentially adverse impact that failure to maintain incentive farmgate
prices through effective procurement may have on farmers' willingness and
ability to invest in modern production technology. Procurement in FY81 has
been very large, exceeding 1 million tons for the first time in history, and a
major effort has been initiated to increase public grain storage capacity to
levels sufficient to sustain even larger procurement efforts in future years.
B. Agricultural Production Strategy
46.       The central objectives of the Government's agricultural develop-
ment efforts are spelled out in the Second Five-Year Plan. In addition to
the attainment of self-sufficiency in foodgrains, the Plan aims at creating
employment opportunities for the rural poor in order to raise their incomes
and nutritional standards, as well as at increasing the output of agricul-
tural products suitable for export. The proposed strategy emphasizes
strengthening of rural institutions and self-help activities, improving the
capacity utilization of irrigation facilities, increasing the supply of
agricultural inputs, and expanding the acreage irrigated through low-cost
and quick-yielding schemes. It also recognizes the need for a significantly
greater private sector involvement in the delivery and servicing of modern
inputs and agricultural equipment, which in the past have been mainly the
responsibility of the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC).
1/   Farmgate prices generally are a further 10-15% below wholesale prices.



- 13 -
47.       A detailed implementation plan for the foodgrain and water-development
subsectors has been prepared in the form of the Medium-Term Foodgrain Produc-
tion Plan (MTFPP). In the MTFPP, the projected input requirements for pro-
ducing 20 million tons of foodgrains have been disaggregated and then grouped
into a portfolio of investment projects and programs. This portfolio provides
an overview of the investment package, a basis for monitoring its implementa-
tion, and a guide for donors who wish to support Bangladesh's agricultural
development effort. It consists largely of short-gestation, high-priority
and divisible projects ready for immediate donor appraisal and Government
implementation. While the MTFPP aims most specifically at the achievement of
foodgrain self-sufficiency, its successful implementation will also improve
the production environment and output growth potential for most non-foodgrain
crops.
48.       With virtually all arable land already under cultivation, increas-
ing grain production will require improvements in cropping intensity and
yields. The potential for further gains in these areas is considerable.
Average rates of fertilizer application still remain well below optimal levels,
the acreage under HYVs and local improved varieties (LIVs) covers only 10-15%
for the aus and aman crops, and the actual utilization of irrigation facili-
ties fielded is only slowly moving towards technically feasible limits.
49.       The Government's input delivery systems and support services, which
provided the initial push for agricultural modernization in Bangladesh, are
no longer adequate to cope with the requirements of continuing rapid agricul-
tural development. The capabilities of the public sector to deliver increased
quantities of inputs, to reach a larger number of farmers with essential
support services, and to guarantee effective support prices to cultivators
are already severely strained. Further progress, therefore, will require
not only improved performance by existing Government agencies and delivery
systems, but also greater reliance on private sector distribution, manage-
ment and maintenance capabilities to reduce the burden on the public sector.
50.       Several positive steps have been taken in the past two years to
encourage greater private sector involvement in the distribution of agricul-
tural inputs. Fertilizer distribution has been turned over to the private
sector at the wholesale level in most parts of the country. A start has been
made in selling tubewells and low-lift pumps to private owners rather than
renting them at subsidized rates. Pump repair and maintenance services have
been opened up to the private sector. The wholesale and retail distribution
of pesticides has been entirely handed over to the private sector.
C. Foodgrain Policy
51.       Foodgrains play a crucial role in Bangladesh's narrowly based eco-
nomy. A forward-looking and effectively implemented foodgrain policy therefore
is essential: it will affect the rate and structure of economic growth, income
distribution, nutrition and health standards, the balance of payments, and
the financial situation of the Government. Bangladesh-s chronic foodgrain
deficit has made the country dependent on large food imports, and the need



- 14 -
to cope with periodic food crises has frequently diverted attertion and scarce
resources from crucial long-term development tasks and policy issues.
52.       Policies have been formulated and are in various stages of implemen-
tation to redress recognized weaknesses in foodgrain supply a    distribution
management.  Particularly important among them have been:  the conversion of
the Food Ministry-s domestic foodgrain procurement from a stock replenishment
mechanism into an increasingly more effective instrument for supporting farm-
gate prices at incentive levels; the significant reduction in the subsidies
paid on foodgrains distributed from public stocks; the accumulation of size-
able foodgrain stocks to be used for emergency relief in the event of natural
calamities or drastic crop failures and for the stabilization of open-market
grain prices during lean periods within the reach of the poorer segments of
the population; the active encouragement and promotion of greater private par-
ticipation in foodgrain storage, processing and distribution; and the overall
strengthening of public sector foodgrain policy management and administration.
Public Procurement
53.       In recent years the Government has increasingly shifted the emphasis
of its domestic foodgrain procurement effort to buying grains in the market in
order to support farmgate prices at incentive levels. This is a sound policy,
but its implementation still suffers from weaknesses. Procurement prices are
not always announced in time to have any incentive impact on farmers' cropping
decisions; procurement prices are not always determined in consideration of
all essential elements that should be taken into account; the physical means
to support the announced prices remain inadequate; and unscrupulous purchas-
ing agents still find ways to secure personal gains for themselves at the
expense of both farmers and the public exchequer.
54.       Nevertheless, the price support policy for foodgrains has begun to
have a positive impact. With the number of purchasing centers greatly in-
creased during the last four years, improved handling and payments procedures
put into effect, and sufficient financial resources made available for pro-
curement, the fall in post-harvest foodgrain prices has been measurably dam-
pened since the Food Ministry began to step up its purchases several years
ago. Although market prices could not always be prevented from falling below
the announced floor levels, this has generally not been a cause of serious
erosion in farmers incentives with the exception of the record FY81 aman
crop.
55.       Procurement prices of paddy, rice and wheat have been raised markedly
since 1977 and, if effectively maintained, provide significant incentives to
farmers to utilize modern yield-increasing cash inputs and to improve their
cultivation methods. At present, the rice procurement price is Tk 175 per
maund, 40% higher than it was in February 1977; at the present exchange rate
of about Tk 19 per US$, this corresponds to US$251 per ton and is comparable
to world market prices (if quality differences and transactions costs are
taken into account).  The wheat price has been fixed at Tk 115 per maund,
equivalent to US$165 per ton and very close to present worlcd prices.  Even
with recent reductions in input subsidies, the cost-and-retur- situation for
foodgrain producers remains favorable.



- 15 -
56.       The greatest single obstacle preventing more effective farmgate
price support continues to be the severe shortage of suitable storage facil-
ities, particularly in the major procurement regions. During the FY81 aman,
boro and wheat procurement drives and the FY82 aus procurement season, the
public foodgrain storage system was so overloaded that procurement could not
be expanded sufficiently to maintain the official prices. Moreover, sub-
stantial quantities of grains had to be stored in substandard facilities or
outside. Even in the warehouses, pest control and stock roll-over operations
could not be carried out as required. As a result, spoilage and losses from
infestation were very high.
Public Distribution and Subsidies
57.       All grains purchased by Food Ministry procurement centers and all
imported foodgrains are channelled at subsidized prices to consumers through
the Public Foodgrain Distribution System (PFDS). In normal crop years, about
1.8 million tons are distributed in this manner (equal to about 13-14% of
total consumption), but in years of severe production shortfalls (such as
FY80) the quantity of grains moved through the PFDS is significantly larger.
In normal years, roughly two thirds of public foodgrain distribution has
been supplied to certain "priority" recipients such as Government employees,
members of the armed forces, police, employees of semi-government and auto-
nomous official bodies, and (under so-called Statutory Rationing) to other
persons who have been residents of six urban centers since at least 1974.
The balance is allocated for Food-for-Work programs, for periodic rationing
to the rural poor in times of short supplies, or for relief for those affected
by natural disasters.
58.       The Government's efforts to reform the system include a commitment
to reduce the subsidy. During FY78 and FY79, the total economic subsidy on
public rice and wheat distribution was just over one third of the actual costs
incurred by the Government in its foodgrain operations, but increased to 45%
in FY80 due to very high offtake and high world market prices for imported
grains. Reduced offtake, increased ration prices, a greater reliance on wheat
and domestically procured rice, and further shifts in the ration mix from rice
to wheat caused the subsidy in FY81 to fall sharply to about 27% of total
costs incurred.
59.       Since the existing ration system is not specifically and effectively
targeted towards the poorest, the subsidy has limited social justification.
Studies show a decline of 15% or more in aggregate foodgrain consumption
during lean season months, borne mostly by the rural and urban poor who are
not protected by the ration system. These people would be the chief benefi-
ciaries if substantial quantities of government grain were used for open
market sales to limit free market price increases during lean seasons.
PART IV - THE CREDIT
60.       The proposed credit was appraised by a mission which visited
Bangladesh in March/April 1981. Negotiations took place in Washington in
October/November 1981; the Bangladesh negotiating team was led by Dr. A.H.
Sahadatullah, Member, Planning Commission.



16 -
61.       The objective of the Credit is to (i) provide foreign exchange for
the import of raw materials, components and equipment to enable the industrial,
construction and agricultural sectors to improve their capacity utilization
and increase their output, and (ii) support the policy measures introduced or
planned by GOB to increase foodgrain production and to impro-ve the efficiency
and equity of foodgrain marketing and distribution.  The Credit thus builds on
the objectives and achievements of Imports Program Credit IX. Progress under
the proposed Credit will be regularly monitored by the staff of the Resident
Mission in Bangladesh; in addition, a formal review will be conducted during
the appraisal of the planned Imports Program Credit XI in April 1982.
62.       The policy focus of program credits has evolved considerably since
they were first initiated in Bangladesh. The primary rationale for the first
three program credits to Bangladesh was to address the critical rehabilitation
needs of the country after independence. Under the Fourth Imports Program
Credit, emphasis was changed to lending based on a program with a specific
focus on the factors inhibiting the efficiency of the country's two largest
industries, jute and cotton textiles. Under the Fourth and subsequent credits,
specific measures were developed for these industries to improve (i) capacity
utilization, through mill maintenance programs and improved spare parts avail-
ability; (ii) production planning and control; (iii) raw material procurement;
and (iv) financial performance through asset replacement programs, capital
restructuring, product rationalization, pricing policy adjustments and ration-
alization of production facilities. In addition, a number of studias were
initiated as first steps towards formulating long-term development programs
for the jute, cotton textile and pulp and paper industries. By FY78 sufficient
progress had been made in these industries to allow the Seventh and Eighth
Imports Program Credits to focus upon export development and the structural
problems of the industrial sector as a whole.
63.       The Ninth Imports Program Credit shifted the policy focus from indus-
try to agriculture, supporting policy improvements to increase the production
as well as the efficiency and equity of the distribution of foodgrains. These
policy improvements concerned the allocation of financial resources to agricul-
tural development, encouragement of the private sector's role in the supply
of irrigation equipment and in the storage and trading of foodgrains, expansion
of foodgrain storage, improvement of food policy coordination and strengthening
of agricultural planning. Progress achieved in these areas is summarized in
Annex V.
64.       The major issues and the Government's policy intentions in these
areas have been discussed above. The following paragraphs describe actions
taken or to be taken by GOB to address these issues and realize its policy
intentions: some of these represent further steps in areas where improvements
were initiated in the context of Imports Program Credit IX; some stem from
the continuing dialogue between GOB and IDA on foodgrain and agricultural
production policy rationalization in the context of the preparation of the
proposed Imports Program Credit X; and others are conditions of the proposed



- 17 -
credit itself. 1/ The selection of actions already initiated or to be taken
reflects several basic premises: (i) the continuing need to improve the equity
and efficiency of the public foodgrain distribution system; (ii) the importance
of successfully implementing the MTFPP so as to achieve self-sufficiency in
foodgrain production; and (iii) the recognition that attainment of the Govern-
ment's overall objectives can be facilitated by allowing the private sector to
have a greater role in the storage, marketing and distribution of foodgrains
and in the production and distribution of agricultural production inputs.
Foodgrain Policy Issues
65.       Public Foodgrain Distribution.  In formulating policies, the Govern-
ment has been guided by the need to change the distribution system from one
designed primarily to provide subsidized foodgrains to the urban, industrial
and civil service sectors, to one aimed increasingly at stabilizing market
prices throughout the year at levels within reach of the urban and rural poor.
Simultaneously, steps have been taken to improve the efficiency of the overall
grain distribution system by strengthening the relative role of the private
sector.
66.       To meet some of these objectives, the Government initiated on
July 1, 1981, a system of open market sales (OMS) of rice and paddy 2/ from
public stocks when market prices exceed certain predetermined levels. The
system will eventually benefit a far larger number of consumers in the lower
income groups than the traditional ration system by stabilizing retail prices
at levels within their reach. As it becomes fully operational, it will facil-
itate a gradual phasing out of the present arrangements involving rationing
and subsidized sales to special priority groups of consumers.  It should also
be less difficult to administer than the existing system with its cardholders
and entitlements and would reduce the possibilities for fraud and profiteering.
67.       Changes in the degree of subsidization and the targeting of the
public foodgrain distribution system (PFDS) face significant opposition in
the country from the generally influential groups which have been its primary
beneficiaries. The Government has displayed skill and determination in taking
steps designed to prepare these traditional beneficiaries for the eventual
elimination of their privileges and simultaneously to make their continued
reliance on these privileges less attractive. There have been, for example,
repeated reductions in the ration quota as well as shifts in the ration mix
away from rice towards wheat. 3/ Similarly, issue prices for foodgrains from
1/   A summary listing of the policy issues addressed and the specific measures
being or to be undertaken is provided in Annex III.
2/   Wheat OMS have been undertaken on a modest scale for the past two years,
but had only minimal effect in dampening seasonal increases in consumer
prices of rice and paddy.
3/   In March 1977, the adult quota under statutory rationing consisted of
2.5 seers of rice and 1.5 seers of wheat; following four phased adjust-
ments, the quota has been fixed at 0.75 seers of rice and 1.75 seers
of wheat since January 1981.



- 18 -
the PFDS have been increased regularly. The most recent increases were effected
in April 1981: the rice issue price was raised by Tk 15.2 per maund, thus
reducing the unit subsidy on domestically procured rice from 34% to 26%, and
the unit subsidy on domestically procured wheat was reduced by Tk 6 per maund,
equivalent to a reduction from 24% to 19%.
68.       Public Foodgrain Procurement.  As Bangladesh moves from a situation
of permanent foodgrain deficits towards domestic self-sufficiency, the focus
of the operations carried out by the Ministry of Food (MOF) and its Department
of Food (DF) is undergoing significant changes. Traditionally geared towards
distributing rapidly large quantities of foodgrain imports needed to supplement
domestic production, the physical infrastructure and operational principles of
DF are not yet adequate to cope with the evolving demands placed on them by the
need to increase domestic foodgrain procurement and to store grains (particu-
larly rice and paddy) for prolonged periods.
69.       Government purchases of foodgrains from producers at incentive prices
are essential to stabilize post-harvest farmgate prices at levels ensuring suf-
ficient incentives for producers, particularly at a time when subsidies on farm
inputs are being reduced or eliminated entirely. The Government has raised the
procurement prices for paddy and rice five times and for wheat four times since
November 1977 in order to maintain producers' incentives in the face of rising
production costs and general inflation. 1/ In recent years, MOF's procurement
effort has greatly expanded, but in the face of rising overall production has
failed to maintain farmgate prices consistently at or near the announced floor
levels. A number of significant steps have been taken in the past few years to
strengthen MOF's ability to procure foodgrains domestically, in particular the
construction of a large number of additional storage-cum-procurement facilities
in the main surplus grain production regions and the added emphasis on procuring
wheat and HYV paddy and rice.
70.       In addition, during FY81, the Government decided to increase competi-
tion among grain dealers in the rural areas by abolishing so-called Approved
Grain Dealers (AGDs) as intermediaries in the grain procurement system at more
than 25% of MOF's foodgrain purchasing centers. Competition among grain dealers
in the localities affected was increased and farmers received higher output
prices than would have been otherwise likely. As a second step, MOF issued
instructions to its field offices to abolish AGDs in at least 50% of its pur-
chasing centers prior to the FY82 aman procurement season, which began on
November 16, 1981.
71.       The Government is also planning to rationalize certain aspects of
its procurement pricing policies. Procurement price increases over the past
several years have been proportionally larger for paddy than for ri-ce and have
led to an erosion in incentives for individuals to mil11 paddy itot-eo ri.e before
offering it for sale to MOF. Although paddy ic Scipefrior t.o rice -Ln storability.
rapidly increasing internal procurement and longer average storage periods are
1/   Overall inflation, as measured by the impliJt ci. socl a ! o . of (YDil a_-ket
prices, was about 35% cumulatively betweein FY78 and FLYL8  the ove-all.
increase in procurement prices over the same period has been 33% for rice
and 37% for both paddy and wheat.



- 19 -
placing a heavy burden on MOF's limited storage capacity because paddy requires
considerably more storage space than milled rice for the same amount of rice
equivalent. Furthermore, the bulk of paddy processing in the villages is by
traditional manual methods (providing substantial opportunities for employment
and income for rural women, often of landless families) or in small custom rice
mills in the market towns. By contrast, once paddy has entered MOF storage
facilities, its subsequent milling is invariably done at larger commercial
mills; this requires prolonged storage of paddy until milling capacity becomes
available, necessitates extensive multiple handling and backhauling and reduces
employment opportunities for rural women. To address these concerns, the Gov-
ernment has decided to restore an adequate differential between rice and paddy
procurement prices in time for the FY82 boro procurement drive and to maintain
adequate differentials in the future.
72.       Foodgrain procurement prices must be announced prior to the time of
sowing or transplanting if they are to have an incentive impact on production.
Raising procurement prices only after the overall size of the crop is already
beyond the influence of farmers merely serves to shift a larger share of the
harvest from private to public distribution channels. Accordingly, the Govern-
ment has decided that procurement prices will henceforth be announced every
year for:
(a) aman paddy and rice no later than July 1, in time to have
an impact on farmers decisions concerning the transplant-
ing of T. aman;
(b) wheat no later than October 15;
(c) boro paddy and rice no later than December 1; and
(d) aus paddy and rice no later than April 1. 1/
73.       Public Foodgrain Stock Management.  With the rapid increase in
domestic procurement, the demands on public storage and stock management have
grown more complex. Increasing quantities of grains are being procured intern-
ally, from numerous small producers and at hundreds of purchasing centers,
and substantial amounts of such grains must be held in storage for prolonged
periods until rising consumer prices warrant their release into the market.
The need to strengthen previously neglected aspects of stock management is
assuming vital importance--particularly in view of the generally higher moisture
content of most domestically procured grains entering MOF storage facilities.
Failure to address these stock management issues effectively will result in
massive increases in stock losses through spoilage, infestation and pilferage,
problems already apparent on a significant scale throughout the entire MOF
storage system.
74.       The causes of excessive stock spoilage and losses are well recog-
nized and the measures required to reduce such losses are known, but progress
in eliminating them has been slow. Among the major problems identified are:
1/   While this would also be the latest agronomically relevant date for broad-
cast aman, it is understood that in the event of subsequent announcements
of higher procurement prices for transplant aman these higher prices would
also apply to broadcast aman procurement.



- 20 -
(a) Inappropriate organizational arrangements within DF with
regard to responsibility for, and implementation of, quality
control measures;
(b) Inadequate staffing, equipment and mobility of quality
inspection and pest control staff; and
(c) Inadequate budgetary allocations and financing arrangements
for operations.
75.       Many of these issues are being explicitly dealt with in the context
of ongoing projects supported by IDA and by other donors. In addition, several
corrective actions have been taken very recently. Special instructions have
been issued to permit DF to fill expeditiously all remaining vacancies on pest
control squads, to procure the vehicles and equipment required for their
operations, and to ensure that foodgrain storage bags are properly stencilled
with the date of acquisition of the grains so as to facilitate proper inventory
rollover and first-in/first-out disposal. A study has been initiated to
determine means to improve overall grain stock quality control throughout MOF's
storage system, including specifically the suitability of proposals: (i) to
entrust selected quality and pest control operations to the storage facility
managers themselves; and (ii) to amalgamate the currently separate functions
of quality inspection and pest control staff. The findings of this study will
be made available for IDA review by June 30, 1982.
76.       Rapid disposal of spoiled or infested stocks is at present more a
recognized necessity than an operational principle. The existing procedures
within DF and MOF concerning the verification of spoilage and the authorization
of staff at various levels to dispose of such spoiled stocks are cumbersome
and inefficient. As a result, spoiled stocks remain in storage for excessively
long periods, often deteriorating to the extent that they can no longer be
utilized even for animal feed, and frequently spreading insect and fungus
infestation to previously unaffected stocks. MOF is carrying out a review of
its procedures pertaining to the identification and classification of spoiled
stocks which require disposal through channels other than the PFDS and to the
time limits, staff authorization and logistic requirements needed to effect
various improvements. The study is also taking into consideration the possi-
bilities for identifying specific potential users of such stocks (e.g., Direc-
torate of Livestock Services, Directorate of Fisheries, private farmers, coop-
eratives, feedmills, etc.). The study is expected to be completed by June
30, 1982, and will be made available to IDA for review and recommendations
concerning appropriate follow-up actions to be taken by MOF.
77.       Foodgrain Stock Verification.  MOF maintains actual stock records
within the individual Directorates concerned, but monthly summary records
made available outside the Ministry are not adjusted for likely losses having
occurred since the latest preceding inventory (which is taken only once per
annum on the last day of the fiscal year). At times of low and rapidly
declining stocks, this practice tends to give rise to dangerous misconceptions
concerning the urgency of stock replenishments. At times of large stocks, it
tends to overstate the degree of storage overloading and constraints and may
cause further procurement of grains from domestic producers to be prematurely
terminated.



- 21 -
78.       Accordingly, MOF has begun to carry out more frequent and reliable
physical inventory controls at randomly selected storage facilities. Summary
stock records provided to policy planners and decision-making authorities
will include a monthly adjustment corresponding to the probable losses having
occurred. The final year-end record will, as in the past, show the actual
losses as determined through the physical inventory. Such periodic and random
controls and inspections will serve the dual purpose of: (i) increasing the
awareness of storage facility staff of the need to tend personally to all
matters designed to prevent storage losses; and (ii) improving the reliability
of MOF-s records of actual stocks held and its estimates of storage losses
occurring in different parts of its overall storage system and at different
phases of handling.
79.       Foodgrain Budgetary Planning.  The financial aspects of the Govern-
ment's foodgrain operations have a major impact on its overall budgetary
position. In view of the significant and often unpredictable seasonal and
annual fluctuations in the Government's foodgrain position, effective finan-
cial planning, both with regard to the development budget and with regard to
credit policies, has been extremely difficult. Following a thorough review of
GOB's foodgrain operations, FAO prepared a special report and recommended that
the Directorate of Food be converted into a semi-autonomous public sector Food
Corporation. The Government has established an interministerial committee
to review the recommendations of the FAO report, including, inter alia, the
nature of reforms required in the accounting and budgetary framework applicable
to foodgrain operations. Its findings and recommendations will be submitted
for final Government review by March 1, 1982, and will be made available to
IDA for review. It is intended to implement suitable policy measures emanat-
ing from the committee's recommendations before the end of FY82, particularly
those addressing the need to:
(a) separate and clearly distinguish between current expenditure
transactions on the food account, such as the food subsidy,
from transactions on the capital account, such as investment
in foodgrain stocks;
(b) establish a consistent principle for valuing stocks;
(c) take into account not only the financial losses incurred
on Government procured foodgrains, but also the implicit
subsidy on aid-financed imports of foodgrains in calculating
the food subsidy; and
(d) assess and monitor the implications of MOF's foodgrain
operations for overall public resource mobilization, credit
and expenditure policies.
80.       Foodgrain and Fertilizer Monitoring.  While the above actions
should go far to improve the financial management of public foodgrain opera-
tions, effective monitoring of overall foodgrain supply and distribution
remains a major concern of the Government. This concern has been reflected
in the reconstitution of the cabinet-level Council Committee on Food, chaired
by the President, and of the Food Policy Monitoring Unit (FPMU), chaired by
the Minister for Planning, in May 1979. IDA's 1979 food policy review mission



- 22 -
recommended, and the Government agreed, that a permanent secretariat to the
FPMU be established, working in the areas of food policy analysis and formula-
tion, establishment and operation of an "Early Warning System" and permanent
monitoring of factors influencing foodgrain supply and distribution.
81.       The continuing policy dialogue between GOB and IDA on this subject
(in the context of IDA's Second Fertilizer Import Credit) subsequently led
to agreement concerning the expansion of the monitoring and policy advice
responsibilities of the FPMU Secretariat to cover fertilizer requirements,
supply, procurement and distribution issues as well. The designation of
the Secretariat was changed to Food and Fertilizer Planning and Monitoring
Secretariat (FFPMS). With the recent filling of the three vacant section
chief positions, staffing is no longer a major problem. Attention is now
being placed on improving the work program of the FFPMS, on securing relevant
information from the many agencies working in this area and on preparing,
analyzing and distributing to all concerned decision-makers frequent updating
reports and forecasts of developments affecting the foodgrain and fertilizer
supply situation.
Agricultural Policy Issues
82.       Investment Budgeting and Implementation.  In keeping with the SFYP
objectives and MTFPP targets, the Government substantially increased the share
of financial resources allocated for agricultural development (excluding the
fertilizer subsidy) from only 22% in the actual FY80 ADP to 30.1% in the revised
FY81 ADP. In the course of the downward adjustment in the revised FY81 ADP,
the share of agriculture was reduced proportionately less than the overall
ADP, and actual development outlays for agriculture increased by about 51% in
nominal terms (some 35% in real terms) over actual FY80 outlays. In the ori-
ginal ADP for FY82, the share of agriculture has been increased further to
30.4%. IDA has stressed that in the face of any prospective overall resource
shortfall, development activities for agriculture in general, and within agri-
culture expenditures on projects included in the MTFPP, should receive priority
funding. The Government concurs with this view and has expressed its desire
for technical and financial assistance from IDA in helping to implement the
MTFPP. This would include steps to improve the overall planning and budgeting
procedures to ensure that established priorities are in fact adhered to.
83.       A major problem in the implementation of projects in general stems
not so much from inadequate ADP allocations, but from the insufficient release
of funds on a timely basis. Donors have expressed their concern that existing
procedural constraints on the release of funds have had a serious detrimental
effect on the implementation of projects. Overly complex procedures, bureau-
cratic bottlenecks and failure to delegate authority have contributed to
these difficulties. The Government is undertaking a study to review the
problem--in particular to identify the reasons for recent delays and, as
appropriate, possible ameliorative actions. It is anticipated that the find-
ings of this review will be ready for IDA's review by March 31, 1982, and
that many of these recommendations will be implemented by the end of FY82.
In the meantime, GOB is considering as a first step to issue instructions
to keep all project revolving funds replenished.



- 23 -
84.       MTFPP Monitoring.  The complexity and importance of the package of
actions and programs contained in the MTFPP point to the need to improve moni-
toring within each major implementing agency and overall monitoring of the
MTFPP as a whole. At present, the capacity of various agencies to fulfill
such responsibilities differs considerably. The Government is now taking
steps to establish new and strengthen existing planning cells and systems and
to ensure that they obtain all relevant information from field and project
managers. The intention is to produce timely and relevant progress reports
and disseminate such reports to those authorities empowered to take remedial
actions.
85.       The ultimate usefulness of these monitoring cells and, in fact,
the Government-s ability to establish viable cells within individual agencies
will depend upon the effectiveness of a newly established overall monitoring
system for the MTFPP. This system, for which IDA is providing technical
assistance, has the following central features:
(a) A central monitoring unit has been established within the
Ministry of Planning, which will report directly to the
Minister of Planning and will prepare periodic reports
for review by the National Economic Council chaired by the
President. Given the keen interest of aid donors in the
MTFPP, semi-annual progress reports will be made available
to the donors- Local Consultations Group.
(b) A separate unit has been created within the Planning Cell
of the Ministry of Agriculture to monitor the progress of
a number of agencies falling under its supervision.
(c) A program is being developed to ensure that the overall
monitoring system will be effective. This program addresses
such issues as: the linkages between the monitoring units
in the Ministries of Planning and Agriculture and with other
agencies; the organization of the data base; actions to
strengthen monitoring cells within the various agencies;
the format and timing of reports; and means to ensure that
recommendations and findings are acted upon.
86.        Pricing Policies.  Rational agricultural input and output pricing
policies will be an essential precondition for the realization of the targets
set forth in the MTFPP. Over the past few years, the Government has taken a
number of steps to increase the share of agricultural development expenditures
borne by the private sector by reducing subsidies on fertilizer and irrigation
equipment and eliminating them entirely on diesel fuel. These subsidies had
proven very useful when these modern inputs were first introduced, but had
become less necessary once these inputs became accepted.
87.       The most recent fertilizer price increase--amounting on average
to 24%-took place in November 1980.  It lowered the average subsidy per unit
of fertilizer offtake during FY81 to 34% of total cost, as compared to 50% in
FY79 and 42% in FY80; the total subsidy was reduced from Tk 1.3 billion in both
FY79 and FY80 to about Tk 1.09 billion in FY81, despite continuing increases
in total fertilizer offtake.  Studies have been initiated since then to examine



- 24 -
production costs in relation to output prices in order to provide a basis for
judging the adequacy of incentives and the pace and need for further price
adjustments. In the meantime, the Government continues to pursue its stated
policy objective of reducing the budgetary burden represented by the fertilizer
subsidy. An increase in fertilizer sales prices sufficient to pass on to the
farmers in FY82 the full anticipated increase in the price of fertilizer
procured internationally and in the cost of domestically produced fertilizer
is expected soon. This will prevent the weighted average unit subsidy for
FY82 as a whole from rising above the average FY81 level of Tk 1240 per ton
and further reduce it as a percentage of cost.
88.        It is the Government-s intention to reduce, and in some cases phase
out, subsidies for minor irrigation equipment provided to farmers. Rental
programs for minor irrigation equipment, which are heavily subsidized, are
being phased out. (Policy measures for the minor irrigation sector are
discussed in detail in paras. 91-99 below.)
89.       Differential increases in the prices of petroleum products were
effected in May 1981 to eliminate the gap between kerosene and diesel prices
which had emerged with the previous round of petroleum products price increases
in July 1980. As a consequence of the earlier changes, widespread adulteration
of diesel fuel with lower priced kerosene resulted. This proved deleterious
for the life and efficiency of irrigation equipment.
90.       Although these price increases may have some dampening effect on
farmers  incentives, strong support from the Government--in providing HYVs,
strengthening extension services, increasing supplies of production inputs
and establishing better and more extensive credit, storage and marketing
facilities--should more than offset any possible adverse consequences. Con-
certed efforts will also be made for the assurance of adequate incentives
for farmers which can be best addressed through government efforts to main-
tain market prices at or above official procurement price levels (see paras.
68-72 above).
91.       Minor Irrigation Policies.  The success of the MTFPP will be sig-
nificantly influenced by performance in the minor irrigation sector. Minor
irrigation (STWs, DTWs, LLPs and HTWs) is to account for about half of the
total financial outlays for water resource development and to provide about
80% of the increase in irrigated area. The Bangladesh Agricultural Develop-
ment Corporation (BADC) in particular has successfully introduced minor
irrigation services in Bangladesh, but the volume of activities has now become
too large for this agency to handle effectively. 1/ Moreover, it has become
increasingly evident that public ownership of equipment and seasonal rental
to farmers is unsatisfactory: the financial burden on the Government, with
subsidies on some types of equipment ranging to over 90% of the cost in recent
years, has become exorbitant due to the rapid growth in the size of these
rental programs, and rental equipment has been greatly underutilized due to
1/   Other public sector agencies active--albeit on a far smaller scale than
BADC--in the supply and distribution of minor irrigation equipment
include the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), the Bangladesh
Krishi Bank (BKB), and the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP).



- 25 -
(i) low charges which discourage capital and overhead costs from being spread
over a larger command area and (ii) the unreliability of rented equipment
which is less likely to be well maintained than equipment owned outright by
the users.
92.        In recognition of the need for greater involvement of the private
sector in the financing, ownership and management of minor irrigation facil-
ities, GOB has turned increasingly toward equipment sales. At the same time
there has been evidence of growing private sector interest in supplying irri-
gation equipment and related services. The Government has now decided that
existing rental programs for deep tubewells and low-lift pumps be run down as
rapidly as possible, with used equipment to be sold at prices discounted to
reflect age and type. A pricing schedule for such equipment has been worked
out in close consultation with IDA, and the sales program has been launched as
of July 1, 1981. The program will be reviewed annually (in consultation with
IDA) in order to monitor progress, identify constraints and undertake correc-
tive measures if and where necessary so as to ensure the complete disposal of
all used LLPs and DTWs by June 30, 1984 (Schedule 3, Section B(1) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In addition, all new minor irrigation equip-
ment procured by BADC after June 30, 1981, will be sold -- unless such sales
contravene the provisions of specially concluded foreign economic assistance
agreements under which such equipment has been procured (Schedule 3, Section
B(2) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Similar arrangements will be
made with regard to minor irrigation equipment supplied by other public sector
agencies with a view towards implementing these beginning with the FY82 irri-
gation season. In support of this shift from rental to sales and in order to
reduce the budgetary burden of existing subsidies, rental fees for LLPs have
been increased by 30% and for DTWs by 50% for the FY82 irrigation season.
93.        The sale of used and new equipment to farmers and farmers- groups
will require a major expansion in appropriate credit programs. Recent experi-
ence has shown that shallow tubewell sales have been the strongest in the
Northwest where medium-term credit to cooperatives through the TCCA/KSS system
is readily available. It has also become evident that properly organized
cooperatives have achieved substantially better command area utilization of
shallow tubewells than other groups or individuals. The Government has carried
out a review of agricultural credit channels, application and approval proce-
dures and interest rates, and measures have been taken to ensure the avail-
ability of medium-term credit through the TCCA/KSS system in all parts of the
country prior to the FY82 irrigation season.
94.        Greater involvement of the private sector in distributing and ser-
vicing equipment will require appropriate incentives for the establishment
of a network of private dealers and repair shops. As this would not be
attractive as long as the public sector is deeply involved in the procurement,
supply and servicing of irrigation equipment, the Government intends to have
public sector agencies gradually curtail procurement and supply of all irriga-
tion equipment other than deep tubewells (for which costs and engineering
skills required for installation make open market sales inappropriate). The
phasing and degree of this public sector withdrawal will depend on the rapidity
and effectiveness with which the private sector takes over this function. At
the same time, import licenses will be made available to dealers with adequate
distribution and servicing networks for established makes of irrigation equip-
ment in accordance with farmers preferences.



- 26 -
95.       The present virtual monopoly of BADC over the supply of spare parts
and of maintenance and repair services for minor irrigation equipment has
proven extremely costly and in many cases less than adequate. The Government
has therefore decided that the private sector should gradually assume respon-
sibility for the supply and marketing of spares and for essential maintenance
and repair services. Accordingly, private suppliers have already been author-
ized to import spare parts for irrigation equipment under Open General License.
In view of the planned rapid expansion of minor irrigation programs during the
SFYP period, the Government has taken or will take several additional steps
during FY82 to improve the private sector's ability to perform these functions:
BADC will sell spares from its Thana stores to all comers and will grant small
price discounts for bulk purchases; and, as soon as present rental programs
are phased out, public agencies' charges for spare parts and services will be
adjusted to cover full costs and to permit private suppliers to compete under
conditions of price parity.
96.       These actions will require further analysis in formulating pricing
policies with respect to irrigation equipment. As a first step, prices for
shallow tubewells sold by BADC have been increased on November 16, 1981, to
reflect the equivalent of the 15% duty paid, and passed on to farmers, by
private importers on imported engines and certain components and raw materials.
The Government, in consultation with IDA, is now determining an appropriate
cost structure for the sale of all minor irrigation equipment by public sector
agencies based on the principle that prices for individual equipment should be
related to each other on the basis of total procurement and marketing cost per
unit of water generation capacity. To establish a standard, a pricing struc-
ture for shallow tubewells will be prepared in consultation with IDA by June
30, 1982 (Schedule 3, Section B(3) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
It will reflect the need to maintain parity between different public sector
suppliers (i.e., BADC, BKB and BWDB) and between private and public sector
suppliers by ensuring that all public sector suppliers charge not only for the
full cost of duties and taxes but also for adequate distribution and profit
margins.
97.       Pricing policy reforms will also need to be consistent with the
objective of promoting domestic manufacture of irrigation equipment, partic-
ularly of diesel engines, so as to ensure more reliable supply, achieve a
measure of standardization of models used within the country and save foreign
exchange. IDA endorses this policy with the caveat that measures designed
to encourage the domestic diesel engine manufacturing industry should be
consistent with norms of economic efficiency.
98.       At present, two public sector companies are manufacturing diesel
engines. Three companies in the private sector have received Government sanc-
tion to begin manufacture. In the initial stages of development, adequate
protection from import competition will be required. Under the present tariff
system, assembly operations receive a 15% protection. The rate of effective
protection is negative for further intermediate stages of development until
domestic value added increases to 60% of the value of gross output; at that
stage the Government allows duty-free imports of raw materials, thus providing
positive protection at the advanced stages of production. The current level



- 27 -
and structure of protection for diesel engine manufacture is inadequate and
does not create the necessary incentives to increase the proportion of domestic
value added in a manner consistent with economic efficiency.
99.       To address these issues, the Government recently introduced a duty
draw-back scheme to ensure that private engine and pump manufacturers are
subject to no more than a 15% duty on essential imported components, parts
and raw materials. This represents a first step towards providing adequate
incentives for domestic manufacture of engines. As part of the joint GOB/IDA
Minor Irrigation Review, a study was initiated to evaluate the need for more
adequate protection for domestic manufacturers through tariff increases for
diesel engines and finished components; this will be continued within the con-
text of the Trade and Industrial Policy Reform Program (para. 25). In the
meantime, imports of spare parts and components for irrigation equipment have
been liberalized with the granting of import licenses to dealers (see also
para. 95). Private manufacturers will also be able to import raw materials,
either individually or in consort, for producing pumps and other equipment.
Administration of the Proposed Credit
100.      Eligible Items.  The Credit Summary (pp. i-ii) lists the categories
recommended for assistance under the proposed credit, the estimated average
annual import requirements for FY82 and FY83 and the maximum amounts to be
allocated to each category (para. 1 of Schedule 1 to the draft Development
Credit Agreement). To facilitate rapid disbursement of the proposed credit,
it is a condition of effectiveness that GOB will have issued to potential
end-users at least 50% of the import licenses for goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the proposed credit (Section 4.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
101.      Procurement will be handled by the enterprises to which funds have
been allocated. Responsibility for public sector procurement will rest with
the various sector corporations, while procurement for the private sector
will be made either through the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) or
by individual private sector organizations. The Chief Controller of Imports
and Exports (CCIE) will be responsible for issuing all licenses for Imports
under the proposed credit and for handling the allocation of funds to the
private sector. Procurement procedures of GOB and its sector corporations
have been reviewed in detail, at least annually since 1975, and are in line
with Bank Group guidelines. These procedures will cover about 80% of the
total purchases under the proposed credit. Except for proprietary items,
all imports costing the equivalent of US$500,000 or more will be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). As was the case with the
Ninth Imports Program Credit, IDA would review GOBs. procurement decisions
after such contracts have been signed and prior to the submission to IDA of
the first withdrawal applications in respect of such contracts. Contracts
for non-proprietary items below US$500,000 would be procured through normal
procurement procedures of the purchasers which generally include the invita-
tion of bids from no fewer than three suppliers. Any contracts involving
proprietary items or equipment needed for standardization may be let on a
negotiated basis, but the award of such contracts would be subject to prior
approval by IDA.



- 28 -
102.      Disbursement.  Disbursements will be made against the foreign
exchange costs of qualifying imports on the basis of withdrawal applications
prepared by the Bangladesh Bank and forwarded to IDA. To expedite the pro-
curement process, it is expected that GOB will finance purchase of goods
costing less than US$100,000 through its own resources and then request
reimbursement from IDA. The proposed credit provides for retroactive
financing of up to US$6 million for expenditures incurred after November 1,
1981, for the emergency importation of chemical fertilizers which became
necessary because of a breakdown in the country-s largest operating urea
factory.
103.      Taka Fund.  As under previous imports program credits, the Govern-
ment will deposit Taka funds, equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from the
proposed credit, in an account currently being maintained with the Bangladesh
Bank and will utilize these funds for development expenditures under its
development programs. GOB will furnish to IDA quarterly reports on amounts
actually released from this account to IDA-financed projects (Section 3.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
104.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
105.      Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in paragraphs 65-99 and Annex III of this report. The issuance
of import licenses in respect of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
this credit covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less than
US$50 million has been made a condition of effectiveness (Section 4.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
106.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit is in conformity with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
107.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Washington, D.C.                               Ernest Stern
November 23, 1981



- 29 -
Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LARD AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             144.0                                   MOST RECENT         LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       97.3                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                 ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     30.0         50.0      90.0                232.3                     1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EqUIVALENT)           ..        32.0/e    40.8                 499.4                     1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0        68117.0   88934.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.1             7.6      10.8                 17.3                       40.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         148.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           338.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        371.5        473.0      617.6                153.6                      373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9          702.2      888.6               360.3                     2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
O-14 YRS.                           44.3         46.3       43.5                 37.4                       39.8
15-64 YRS.                           52.5         51.0       53.9                59.2                        56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.2          2.7        2.6                  3.5                        3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9         2.4        3.0                  2.1                        2.3
URMAN                                3.6          6.3        6.8                  3.4                        3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        49.2         47.6      43.5                 27.7                       29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        22.5         19.9      15.7                 10.2                        7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.1        2.8                 2.5                        1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       429.5    1143.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..        8.9                 20.4                       44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF F00D PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           106.0        101.0       88.0                107.1                      123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     85.0         85.0       91.0                98.6                      112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.0         43.0       58.5                 56.9                       62.5
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.0          9.0        9.0                 14.2                      19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        24.9        23.5       18.7                 14.6                        4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.6           44.9       48.8                 57.7                       64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..        153.0     130.0                 89.1                       50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        45.0       53.0                 30.1                       45.9
URBAN                                 ..         13.0       15.0                 65.8                       68.0
RURAL                                  ..        47.0       55.0                 20.1                       34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          6.0       5.0                 17.6                       53.4
URBAN                                  ..          ..       40.0                 71.0                       71.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                  4.8                       42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..      8427.2/c  8775.0                3857.7                     4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..     91872.9   56876.6                6411.8                     2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  ..      6610.0/d  4402.0                1132.8                      588.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..      637.6                322.3                      579.6
RURAL                                  ..          ..   23754.3                5600.5                     1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  *.          5.9/e     5.9
URBAN                                 ..           6.1I/e    6.1
RURAL                                   .         5.97       5.9
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..           3.0/e
RURAL                                  ..          ..



- 30 -
Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV,ERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCA-ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 47.0        52.0      72.0               85.9                    99.8
MALE                 66.0        68.0     103.0               94.4                   100.6
FEMALE               26.0        34.0      40.0               64.5                    98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  8.0        19.0      22.0               38.0/aa                 53.5
MALE                 14.0        29.0      32.0               34.6/as                 58.4
FEMALE                1.0         8.0      11.0               18.0/asi                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   1.0         1.0       1.0                3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             ..        49.0      44.0               3Z.8                    34.2
SECONDARY                           ..        26.0      24.0               19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       21.6/f      23.0      26.0               52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ,,         0.4       0.4                1.7                    12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         6.0       6.0               35.3                   174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         ..        0.4                3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         ..        4.3               14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..                3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   19251.6    23611.0   31390.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        16.6      17.4               29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             86.8        85.9      74.0               69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.3         3.5      11.0               14.1                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               36.0        34.7      35.3               39.7                    40.2
MALE                                58.7        55.9      56.5               51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                              11.4        11.9      12.7               23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         1.4       1.3                1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/j      16.7/h
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5/g      42.3/h    38.0/i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/5       7.9/h     8.07.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.971      19.67.h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..      139.0              134.1                   248.6
RURAL                               ..          ..     111.0              111.6                   193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..         ..                 ..                   249.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                   234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      86.0               41.7                    21.2
RURAL                               ..         ..       86.0               51.7                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China Included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moot Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country; /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962; /g 1963-64;  /h  1966-67;  /i  Estimated percent uf national income.
Hay, 1981



- 31 -
Annex 
Page 3
DEFINITIONS Or S7C1A) INBICATORS
tto_Eeo  klit-goy   ale d-o  ore droen tro  -o-ote  te-crly jodged  the  -.oc er-h-rirst-oc d reliable. to shood eloo he .ottd tht they cay moo he irae-
ohece,  ceol         kerd bo   ret  f goilto.k, indi-ate  orerda, PendAt-cer-mi     -Iertet  major kffereore                    --c          .. "
rhoortoearetoooytaeo  7) ala   oeroootoyyroopoftboeof..aeotoooooryaod   Illecoontry  grnopotthcontoh...ot ytytao- oo- aIrroeo-haohtarro -rlleoa-
majorityof tOo oaor: lotloloroorhaa rotafor rIototoiroto. I I lore the r-o-ee   f o trieaocbotdtrrtfoioohe  -oailshtltfr of tars
darlrltor>  -  rrlraco  a  aprIrolar.,  ar- nook ttcpoaortly ar   _ _nooaoay                 _ratlbla  to pobl,r endirna Irroak  Iyoei                         rprlcd r-
nootI   by' at -crooeooamthod to Wt-rd Bank  Idos   9lIT-i 79tbiej   116.                               ark  -eda-l r          ...r moo-er -netiy caFtcd By' a'hyI;.      o    o  b
IS90, tad 1979 daa                                                                                        cftc car    os.idoiBt, ear-) oha  ofrtoy-tcreor
kotr  n  _yoide a ltto   eoeo  akrl  atite. Pa   tta
ENERGY CONlffSUZIhI Pit CAPlTo --aotolrnomtio t -o -cta                    rel   ooltal  -yeoatobd  h-syptlel lonokaadIs  ar  ylgoeih                                                 las
Troo     1II?o ...oato.ttltk-eajs _eAr   - ItotJe, yI 1961Im it..oa 1979                                          I. tlh-iOtStl-ld    -y   d    d I
kfffeneoc  kofltlttno  of tehan trootny affaca  r-pataoliry  at d-r                        a   ht  mai ""':a.              -dakro   oltmpomymrb   mlkke
dmaton -nttort Fhl,lS      11Cod-dfar.                                                           hhIIaottcfo   ao -tcor                1oyre.di    yI y.,b    -.Id.
z--i                 196, 19__-                                                                  nateraeoof,aca  yeoo-oal                            rr
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   codere A- In 9ag
Frrolaatat   lrr)orotooo                                                                ______________________b_.._I  -   _:__ Id   _l -b -     __d ___-I _- ___
Forlolarr  ryylltOCoooaprytoOtpaoeol..totahoskolt-l anirero                                                                          P.rro. toaloahp. okooarotdro- eaoa      d
lepol.tot feale Ife  eaneatoon   raht)ltn   at77.- ner.The ean-                      Conoano  drol'l loaot    lrtito    ninogftrcm
eooeoo for toothotyrote  tOot haothroe-lotleaIdo-cltkealtra  odf total, arb-o   n    ma  dmelltogore-prtnily.
it-h tIo_r .. a. ohmoa-nd oto ofIIt  ot  totett Pi                        ma-osiry            aUCATIOm
ehhI iohn-oar1 toqaLathokr-rhrmoe.ao didoaeet-                        erorarre-crrlie                           gtfalolat   the ;ricseylecic-1                mesage f reepeoId
mIr   ccon-Thatiee      tee   ol  ato    ami_o oasdal                 o                     rmm   e_h_ol--; yya "too               . norall  teoIodec rbitamet s,k   -f
ioihyoonytf, anobooaooyorToh          F   e...tnoeamyiI- eooer-oail oolaacsdt.-die-imyodehotaolm
mar  icoo. eIotoiaoeIotaeerle....tn   pacs-of`iyrred   etlap Iaemmrta
ieee  oot Blotrytoeala to   B a -ma bd - The Yarn  h.at  eltcrooory papol.i-am                  -roodo   getaal  .. toaBoi..  orJ       eobromtme    isteotoo    teyPt11)
ette hac bcoonetphe.                                                                                 aetellyof1   d7II fll.tte.....e;ome       doo      ...oeoeI       ar     ..ecoelly
Faoltottcco                                                                                               .eoloded.
ltoas  omot.. 1960, 19)1  rod 1979 don-oll   chta,idcmr.o   te yiogrdc  otloh opcmeea Imleea
ycr ca- tar  tarft.t raal tod -         Inotd  bc.tm.. for .",.Iors  land                       eoy0tadaaaeote... o.f eeeadaeyietrmoa
-1ip  1960s, :970 rok 1971 kat.                                                                    Fomii-reehea      ito  dot       ymo  cmd  eeode -Tac   seddet  ec-aIcd Be
~PEyuhctloi41Y cSAZ.  onr..oaoe           C hildnee  (0-14 yeera) , -tekio-oge  715-                      yetcamy ced           IFmae    _leni  deoida  hr atbere  a F teerber   Je ahc
64 yeses). .od mactoed (65 yacer .0d men) te pcoo..eeogac oi ald-y-c  payn-oaeeako ita.
lota    SI t?,rd1,979 dsta.                                                                    adi  leeysa   ecsr       ieetaat    ei eI                          Fe   mdete
Fooato    ocb   sedFmee -hoI      ee   lao`rrco  total ci--                                              If ....e...g ..t atetma               oeto      gatfpsssa    mm
Ftylaeo  ret   t eooeIof- an_m   - looaa    rooth  et-ma at oaehco Id-                             rea1teutalycocP:dIll.-
y..on I on t91-1,11.    1950-60, and60970-79                                                       yeercrin4Sa   ooe197Fioto    Fasge   a.9oylc .t
po-tittloot 1960-1, 1976. mod iSt  ket0a.1                                                            ilnCryd aebBotie
Cook  aneb ite  (py..onucod) - AentI  1ara-   yen1 thterd oh--  eI-peedm                     Ba..   teoto eye  rhoaeht p......ao   -dl  B                    fmecom    Fa-cdr
pais  ot1916, it7i, eo  1979 dsrs .                                                                   Ias Fsrtgmee    oht_eebocnko   oyteBtteoldca
1t9t0prs 9e; 0rosi    d footpat  decam    dn.g .iBO    91,cd099                                a Bard-a eoihe    iem-g
ofhrttooto  dooe  mA-rS .o..oc od               f octgteol -   ei  pilsac b e-       c.                 eea  ymhlt ro  Ihosae.-          omleBo-    ead iadceoatraosh-           f ceocoa
Bodac of Took Prodootfor tea CoyOte (19B9-tl'2115  - IodA  of. ycn, totr o- osd       Jote  lotos Ireoa             eahaIacyASm -asd maeratro
Oaereakofeogoejohltheretdfhie  cpido-oooadiomtaPeiooolyate-.gi.rtt-teraadI. P.IdId
neototol anasga trodrorprita  metho7t 196) -  i.d.19)  an P97 -ep    -                    or  tahoe A Fo.. c Stoed,Cl p             ,Y - tooYoty Aoatd -aale  tetiotle
Fe~gyyoa aypp4y. ocainclIe l-pIorento      Ictyean. 1 -  iosod e   fmaa"                    armed    Idec  addriogtmayloyod htrea-tdiog  hooceatoce atolo.r.
per, day. -otlehicd- atylia    noechfe  do6me5si         970 Frka dtr  t1y79t lsee                  ao1.B-o cba   197         E97   o   ...9 dee-Ic -    t-P...   .ld
cooortic    akI food  prcm           tog    onk    i -ae   odlrtrt om-C..,dfd. tqde efolor   ecet  - tao doebato fadiag, h                               createy,  batlin  ee
Poaceoik  .ne...9.1-BlI191,1and19779at0. 9771cl7197  date
I                     Ilk, 'tIty.ofytoeyj :r pp.er. ll0                                  I.-I.l aoee  o(-mrapt  Fm .o.a.o Ito -ycnoeo b.S - rorti. male ... e f am L'-FIral  .oto ..e
oaft eyl  Ot  odcrdy    esoIyo   ooI   eted  ceabns-  a-e                                                _itymaccc arco-- at    e   as fotl,mae,co   taeeisomtao
al  etoe ot h.I trod  oy  rtc        eoorye0a be...71 gaem of-  _ra_i eo- 1991   190.eo fly                                     aete 1 . bmcae- oe  or- 196 Ia 19a0 itl170ydIc ea
eaiely d o-tloh ee-rosoroge  o   th        a Id,proyt-a     bdy FIB  oihe ltdDomei   aeadet) -ntbarb f-                             - iio  af  dg Fylt-t-todr1   o   5cdme
hte   fr.   etmf  arkhold         t  gois  ea  ay IB1b-6170ar  1977 dats -7                    tm'~"Sii7t _ot  ..70000tot
Cid(oa -I) poyratnio           e  thotetoIdy) - P-tolikah    e   hockt                         eotte  fPoscItc    bt   toe  sodpkikl -ptiltaP    honihes
egerooi-fpara,tooh-l-eoo -oohieogbyeUStDArp-mdeneI oyiogoo-                                         See       rteohef- l. reFrm   rod oer  00 yerm .eoFoaertl   sec
erle  kae  daroadfnaeltTaerhoc;   9t0.itI   sod 1t79 date,                                 of        70 hatsboda. 1   ..    h:-:b.4                      Pdlpd
OmOAFF                                                                                 POBBXTT TaoldttI IlItItyB'
FtbeatlNt d       IIf  aioh 197  ~de                                                                eedtai  B   oocmccneBo.Beascadt
loer  tfr-ll --t taco~-If7 rtoaaad(     ea -o     l  -eeb -o tot     23ear     tc yea             tet_ca Ie  _elr  fon_t .i_1o _en.) (--5 yea rFctiS -d.  oahe  edd FocAl
oF  le per .i  . rbo Ar  i-n  h.irohe  11    -d.lpbaodlare I    A  hIdUm j  Daq,neor   Ratoie lore  Ic  he ptroema. leder bele   etdo a5 cloa-
hem o  F.Eol  (toal,         l a   Ihen, co   coccI) deyt rec ,or 65l   197ea  to sate              cffrtcl
0cntcr Iga    PT .o.e.. acailn-iae  popaloato -.  Ite   ,,booeaybtrgren                                    ao0dte             aty-I_h   laD    lede d  tro- ab0 otal..
fosoci  o d    rcdyod-   los-dI-   II  oibl.19, mare 0thdm 1979 eecefrso.oosfaya                         h-lo.bldfae.t.hgroctFftgeoa
H  oeidALV     c htI atab r(Y        osh.-    oec  t  a)   hoe          SnrV ocaftm ta Toyoteoooo aelmo I baatoe ppnmn- Imoa  ec  pCetyroloe
rea.oaobctletooesoood-plytosnflt...aaStatmc fhteotnatteoebol                                           ardrtoels-PorF tfaaeiochocdaalhateale
19ao     0, 1970yerd dttnyn1979       epnofhfyifohlgh
femely' aesear reeka.                                                       yadee .ldb.           ~        ll  ... dIbl
Itoecaomocroe ltaoecllepot otof-n-Lcfd-rhofi~t-larr.emdreoo I--                                 tit    A..,P-yId-Ld    USRIIpi)-l--                                                1 
P- bcatol'   7r_.rI.btehm.ead-myoralis-1oIdchhycIdoncackibsroa-alec-
yeeaaageeofatae  .ayoote ppoltirs. fooet  ktyoe  cay                                                ..Blydmtpladsf.d                                                     .
btarofopoBooaa   kl.yaaat.datoo   tto    aemo   nbcrcerl                                                                                      oococtSoa   asloa
ca   plaa-oa   by titer-h Irresyad m   Irt            - -oe df  i  yboa. a   tc1totcobcn    t    oretreeyoc
Id   .. t~~~~ycl,                -fod191
-ooeeo    ear PhecioPtr    - Fy-atto  dnoa  byhl.   penebaa of pemIot tolot Fhya$a-
oisocqoolfted   raa    oratal afooalat oaoaeat y  ocal
tooeto   e   alnhn   'ca -yylatnboldbyrae    f Pro   l
csftcrdfaoacla~~radoaocooreca.proortreIO...oae,,sckcas1-taortad-i-d



- 32 -
Annex I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:            92.9 million (January 1981)
GNP Per Capita:       US$120 (FY80)
Amount          Average Annual Increase (%)        Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(million US$        (in constant FY75 prices)                  (ir current prices)
indicator                                      in current prices)
FY80           FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80        FY60      FY70       FY75       FY80
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                             11,346             4.0     -0.6         5.7       100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture /a                                      6,085            3.1      -1.3        3.6         59.9       56.9       62.5       53.6
Industry /a                                         1,383            7.9      -3.2        5.9          7.7        9.6       11.3       12.2
Services /a                                         3,877            4.9       3.3        9.0         30.1       30.0       26.2       34.2
Consumption                                            11,466            4.4     -0.7         5.2         92.4      92.8      100.0      101.1
Gross investment                                        1,660           10.9    -10.9        13.5          6.9       11.3        7.0      14.6
Exports of goods & nfs                                    820            0.8    -11.7        4.0          10.0        8.3        3,1       7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                                 2,600             8.8    -12.0        5.3          9.3       12.5       10.1       22.9
Gross national savings                                     36           26.5    -17.7       -8.4          0.9         6.1       0.6        0.3
Amount                                             Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(million US$                                                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY80                                             FY73      FY75       FY79       FY80
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                  719.2                                               100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0
Primary                                           198.0                                               40.6       34.2       35.7       32.1
Manufactures                                      521.2                                               59.4       65.8       64.3       67.9
Merchandise imports                                2,352.0                                               100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0
Food                                              691.0                                               44.1       41.5       16.1       29.4
Petroleum                                         390.0                                                3.2       11.1       11.5       16.6
Machinery & equipment                             491.0                                               13.8        9.6       25.0       20.9
Other                                             780.0                                               38.9       37.8       47.4       33.1
FY74      FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                                            140.6      240.5      183.1      177.2     203.6      216.8      254.4
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                                  7.9661    8.8759   14.8521    15.4667    15.1215   15.2228   15.4779
Export price index                                                      104.4      126.0      108.3      118.7     129.6      165.6      207.1
Import price index                                                      153.0      186.5      179.4      173.7     172.7      205.5      241.5
Terms of trade index                                                     68.2       67.6       60.4      68.3        75.0      80.6       85.8
As % GDP
(at current prices)
FY73      FY75       FY77       FY80
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                                    5.0        5.4        9.5        10.4
Current expenditure                                                                6.5        4.5        7.8         7.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                       -1.5       +0.9       +1.7         +2.8
Capital expenditure                                                                8.8        3.1        9.5        13.3
Foreign financing                                                                  7.1        2.4        6.0        8.2
1960-70    1970-75    1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                                     4.2       -0.7         5.8
GNP per capita growth rate(%)                                                           1.5       -3.3         3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
/a At market prices.
= not available
not applicable
ASADD
Jul) 15, 1981



- 33 -
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
Actual                                          Est.            Projected
FY74      FY75        FY76      FY77        FY78        FY79        FY80         FY81         FY82       FY83
8 AL4NCE OF PAYMEN'TS
Net exports of goods & services                      -573      -1,031      -  901      -426      -  870     -  947      -1,640       -1,859       -1,920      -2,180
Exports of goods & services                         403         453         454       514         559         690        809          833          980       1,120
Imports of goods & services                        -976      -1,484      -1,355      -940     -1,429      -1,637      -2,449       -2,692       -2,900      -3.300
Net transfers                                           19          34         62        81         113         140         163          219         262         320
Current account balance                              -554        -997        -839      -345        -757        -807     -1,477       -1,640       -1,658      -1,860
Direct private investment                               ..          ..         ..        ..          ..          ..          20           25           30         40
SILT loans (net)                                       276         498        498       238         398         420         581          659          750        850
Granti & grant-like flows                              169        383         243       253         386         555         601         700           750        800
Other capital flows (net)                               51        267          45       -65         -52         -44         133          236          97         220
Change in reserves (- = increase)                       58       -151          53       -81          25        -124        142            20          31         -50
International reserves (end of period)                115         266         213       294         269         393        251          231          200         250
Reserves as months of imports of next year           0.93        2.36        2.72      2.47        1.97        1.93        1.12        0.96         0.73        0.83
Actual
FY74      FY75        FY76       FY77        FY78        FY79        FY80
GROSS DISBURSE2ENTS
Official grants                                     168.6       383.1      243.5      252.7       385.7       555.2      600.1
Gross disborsements of ELT loans                    287.4       518.9      563.5      268.3       435.3      476.8       631.4
Concessional                                        201.4       458.4      533.0      244.1       400.8       456.4      601.6
Bilateral                                         150.4       342.8      389.9      144.0      261.9       212.6       272.7
IDA                                                51.0       112.5      127.8       86.1       88.2       152.5       152.1
Other nultilateral                                   -          3.1       15.3       14.1        50.7        91.3      176.9
hon-concessional                                      86.0       60.4       30.4       24.1        34.5        20.4        29.8
Official export credits                            40.6        45.2       16.5        5.6         1.7         3.3       16.8
1BRD
Other multilateral                                  5.4         0.3        1.1        0.5         0.5         0.1        0.3
Private                                            40.0        14.9       12.8       18.0        32.3        17.0       12.7
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt -utxtanding and dinbursed (end xf period)   492.8    1,352.6   1,795.9   2,051.5    2,569.2    2,949.2    3,215.6
Official                                          383.3    1,232.8  31,689.0   1,939.8    2,435.6    2,808.3    3,068.8
IB8D                                               -         54.9       54.9      54.9        54.9        54.9        54.9
IDA                                             105.6       255.3      379.8     465.9       554.2       706.7       858.8
Other                                           222.8       922.6   1,254.3   1,419.0    1,826.5    2,046.7    2,155.1
Private                                           109.5       119.8      106.9      111.6       133.6       140.9      146.8
Undisbursed Debt                                    580.8    1,019.4       947.5   1,015.8    1,335.4    1,659.1    1,716.7
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                           18.0        31.3      87.4       58.5        69.3        95.1        93.7
Interest                                            7.3        10.1       21.9       28.4       32.1        38.1        43.3
Payne.ts as 2 exports                                 4.5         6.9       19.3       11.4        12.4        13.8        11.6
Payments as % GNP                                      0.2         0.2       1.2        0.9         0.8         1.0         0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (%)                 3.2         2.0       1.7        1.6         1.5         1.4         1.4
Official                                            2.9         2.0        1.6        1.5         1.3         1.4         1.2
Private                                             5.1         2.3        7.8        6.4         6.2         6.1        6.9
Average maturity of new loans (years)                26.1        35.5       41.6       40.1        37.7    .  35.9         33.6
Official                                           28.3        35.8       42.2       40.8        38.6        36.3       34.2
Private                                            13.3        15.3       11.3       11.0         9.5        14.8       19.3
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (Z)
EIBRD DOD/lotal DOD                                                 -          4.0        3.0       2.6         2.1         1.8         1.7
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements            -          -          -          -           -           -           -
IBvD debt service/total debt service                    -          -         1.8        5.6         4.8         4.1         3.7
IDA DOD/total DOD                                    21.4        18.8       21.1       22.7        21.6        24.0       26.7
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements          17.7        21.7       22.7       32.1        20.3        32.0       24.0
IDA debt service/total debt service                    1.3         3.1       2.5        5.3         5.4         4.6         6.0
As 3 of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY80
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity stru-t-re of debt outstanding (2)
Maturities due within 5 years                                                   12.2
Maturities dce within 10 years                                                  36.5
Interest structure of debt outstanding (7)
Interest dux within first year                                                  1.6
,    not available.
AS-OD
Joly 15, 19880



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                              US$ Million la
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 19 credits fully disbursed                      54.90   639.75
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                       -       14.00      0.85
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                          -       21.00      1.39
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)            -       25.00      2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                        -       7.50      2.64
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II               -      20.00      7.04
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -      62.00      6.33
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                         -       15.00      4.22
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                 -       27.00    14r86
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                -      22.00      9.56
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -          12.00      4.99
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                   -      16.00      6.90
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank              -      25.00      5.85
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                   -       16.00     3.66
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                   -      21.00    13.71
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research              -       10.00     5.36
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II           -        5.00     2.82
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                -      21.00    14.81
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                -       25.00    20.82
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                       US$ million /a /b
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II           -        7.00    4.20
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research             -        6.00    3.48
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control        -       19.00   15.58
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III          -       10.00    6.98
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries             -        6.00    5.32
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training               -       25.00   22.39
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -          32.00   29.84
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                  -       28.00   27.81
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                   -       22.00   14.96
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                -       25.00    0.03
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                 -       25.00   24.02
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                       -       10.00    9.56
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII              -       50.00    7.47
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                    -       37.00   23.20
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II        -       20.00   19.61
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -       29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -       20.00   19.61
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation            -       11.00   10.87
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II             -       25.00    1.87
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -       40.00   38.97
Total                                                54.90  1,451.25  443.35
of which has been repaid                               -        0.40    -
Total now outstanding                                54.90  1,450.85  443.35
Amount sold                             0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  1,450.85
Total undisbursed                                      -      443.35  443.35
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
7W   See Part B for IDA Credits expressed in SDRs.



36 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (As of September 30, 1981)
Credit   Fiscal                                               Amount in SDR Million
Number    Year      Borrower      Purpose                     Original  Undisbursed
1065     1981       Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III    26.7            26.7
1071     1981       Bangladesh   Imports Program IX             49.5         23.7
1091     1981       Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development   64.7            63.8
1096     1981       Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                    19.1         19.0
1117     1981       Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II   40.2            40.2
1124     1981       Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV        12.9         12.9
1140 1/  1981       Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                 14.8         14.8
1147 21  1981       Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit            32.6         32.6
Total                                                    260.50        233.7
of which has been repaid                                 0.00           -
Total now outstanding                                    260.50        233.7
Amount sold                                  0.00
Total now held by IDA (in SDR)                           260.50
Total Undisbursed                                                      233.7
I/   Not yet effective.
2/   Became effective in October.
C.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS -/(as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                           1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      I?PDC                            DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                       1.20.   1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -            -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                             1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                             0.65    1.05    1.70
3/   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                 Tannery           2.1       .2      2.3



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
D.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Improvements have been made in procurement and installation of
processing equipment, and in completion of civil works and land development,
with the exception of 8,000 tons of additional storage, for which bids are
being evaluated. Construction should be completed by December 1981. Similar
progress is being made in completing the Seed Certification Agency (SCA) com-
ponent. However, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) component
remains behind schedule due to inadequate funding. The contract grower scheme
continues to make good progress: wheat seed sales have exceeded appraisal
estimates. However, paddy seed sales remain well below appraisal targets
because of poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varie-
ties for multiplication. Consultants have already submitted recommendations
for improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency would be further strengthened through an intensive training programme
currently being prepared. GOB made full ADP allocations for SCA and BRRI to
permit completion of their FY81 work programs.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining
the number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original
project. Civil works in the original project area are completed. About
735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about
30,000 acres. However, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints
continue to inhibit full utilization of existing irrigation facilities.
They are, however, improving.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 38 -
iIQNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date:  February 24, 1976>
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project implementation is about 2. 5 years behind schedule
with about 50 percent of works completed. Construction contracts for remaining
structures were awarded by WDB in early 1981. Works on embankments, a major
project component, have not started. The current project cost estimates
prepared by WDB are about 30 percent higher than the appraisal estimate.
WDB has been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular
regard to the requirements for the embankments, which are likely to be sub-
stantially reduced and eliminated from the IDA Credit. Without embankment
construction, the project is expected to be completed in June 1983.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date:  August 3, 1976;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily with project management much improved.  The supply of irrigation
equipment and inputs is now satisfactory and the rural works program is making
good physical progress. However, contract supervision and maintenance of comt-
pleted works need improvement. GOB has requested that the credit closing date
be extended by one year to allow use of project savings (about US$5 million)
on an expansion of existing components in the present project area.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule,  Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others.  Constru:ction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalificatioa documents for the
closure dam and embankments, the only remaining major works, have been issued,
and tender documents are being finalized. A revised cost estimate shows a
10% increase over the appraisal estimates.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achievement
of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation throughout
Northwest. Some delays have been experienced due to late release of local
funds by the Government.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Local fund allocation is also inadequate. A review mission
is now in the field to evaluate the project's progress.
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
project's 145,000 ton procurement storage component is now progressing satis-
factorily, but the storage rehabilitation and relief storage programs have
only now been taken up. Quality control operations are yet to be improved,
and paddy dryers still need to be procured. Consultants have been engaged for
engineering, quality control and paddy drying; and the pilot marketing project
is doing well at the Muktagacha Thana Central Cooperative Association, the
first one to participate in the project. The project is now anticipated to be
completed by December 31, 1982, six months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is satisfactory. The BARC headquarters
building has been completed and is occupied. Construction and farm develop-
ment at the three regional stations is progressing slowly. The BARC research
grant scheme is in operation and the consultants appointed to advise BARC on
procedures for financial planning and recording and for research monitoring
and evaluation have completed their work. A total of 31 students have been
sent abroad for PhD training.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date:  October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
A 45 ha. site has been acquired for the construction of the central
carp hatchery facility, the designs for which have already been prepared and
approved by IDA.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has been completed on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the
remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Orders placed for 3,000 two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs
(Phase I of the sales program) were delivered in October 1980. Orders have
also been placed on the remaining 4,000 LLPs. Sales for the first phase has
begun with about 1,000 LLPs sold. A detailed project Action Plan has also
been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress is satisfactory. The Project Director and all key
personnel are in post. The PTU consultant has been appointed; his first visit
is scheduled for August/September 1981. It has been agreed that SPARRSO (for-
merly Bangladesh Landset Programme) should undertake the 5 year Remote Sensing
Programme and a draft scheme has been prepared; Landset imagery tapes obtained
in February will be processed shortly; aerial photography will be completed at
the end of the year.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective. IDA has extended effectiveness
period and has established November 10, 1981 as later date. Progress towards
meeting conditions for effectiveness is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This Credit has become effective very recently.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant mechanically
practically completed. Despite continuing minor commissioning problems,
production of urea is expected to start around end 1981, slightly later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total projects costs
are likely to be close to that approved at the time of IDA supplementary
financing.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 30, 1981, disbursements were about US$19.2 million.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion.  The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 944   Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30,
1981
As of September 30, 1981, disbursements were about US$24.97 million.
In total, the Credit will have financed the imports of about US$70,000 t urea
and 40,000 t TSP. The credit was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment for
commitments in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of September 30, 1981, US$42.53 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr, No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date:- June 30, 1981
As of September 30, 1981 US$23.13 million had been disbursed. The
credit was closed on June 30, 1981 and payment for commitments in the pipeline
will continue.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on January 15, 1981, As of July 15,
1981 US$1.2 million had been committed.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
As of September 30, 1981 disbursements were about SDR 25.8 million.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This Credit became effective on August 12, 1981. As of September 30,
1981 US$21.7 million had been committed.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407   Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project financed completion of the construction of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building of
five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The credit was closed on December 31, 1980. It is estimated that about US$1.4
million will be cancelled during November 1981 as soon as payments of existing
commitments in the pipeline are made. Project costs (in dollar terms) are
close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation. At credit closing
the technical education (polytechnics) component was completed in most respects
but the BAU continues with the construction of the auditorium, student hostels
and other non academic buildings. The government has committed itself to
the completion of this project from its own resources. Efforts to arrange
for architectural supervision financed under a T.A. credit are underway.
A Technical Education consultant is currently in the field assisting the
government to prepare.a project completion report.
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit-of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of the civil works associated with the training
institutions is about 85% complete and about 95% of the equipment has been
procured, although training programs are running at 75% of trainee capacity.
The physical aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However,
the recruitment of consultants, to assist in implementation of studies and
in developing training programs has been delayed by about two years, largely
because of the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural Training
(NCRT). IDA has agreed to finance the cost of local consultants to assist
the NCRT in performing its functions. These consultants have already produced
an interim report. Part I of the Agricultural Management Training Institute
courses, organized by Coverdale consultants for training staff has been
completed, and the program will continue to completion in March 1982.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr0 No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project was declared effective on November 5, 1979. Short
courses of about six months duration have replaced longer programs at four
technical training centers, and will be offered at the five TTCs to be
constructed and equipped under the project. A team of ILO trade training
consuiltants is assisting project development, and a project related fellowship
program of overseas training is available to Government and industrial officers.
Additional staff have been appointed to manage project implementation, though
some delays are occurring in reaching agreed staffing levels. Efforts are
also being made to increase recruitment and improve retention of skilled
instructors, which is essential to project success.
Cr, No. 1054  Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project was declared effective on December 1, 1980. Activities
planned for the first year (1981), i.e. staff training, base-line evaluation,
materials production (textbook, girls uniforms) and distribution and the
formation of school Management Committees are underway and progressing
steadily. Delays in two areas, evaluation and physical construction, have
been identified. The remedial steps introduced by GOB and UNESCO (evaluation)
will, however, minimize the delays.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Except for Part A (Training and Service Facilities), implementation
of five of the project's six main parts was completed in mid-1980. The only
major problem delaying project completion, in respect of which the original
Closing Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981, is the slow
implementation of the Training and Service Facilities part of the project.
Although 6 of the 21 facilities are now fully completed and 7 more are
expected to be completed between July-September, 1981, a second extension
of the Closing Date may be needed to permit full project completion and full
disbursement of credit proceeds.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Except for the first tranche (1979/80) of the Family Welfare
Centers' component, project execution effectively commenced only in July,
1980 and, in relation to the original four year implementation period, is
currently about one year behind schedule.  While the impact of this delay
on two parts of the project (Information, Education and Motivation (IEM)
and Research and Evaluation) is not significant except in terms of credit
disbursements, the civil works components of the service delivery and
training parts of the project are experiencing problems owing not only to
delayed implementation but also to proposed budget cuts, revised building
design standards, and domestic and international price inflation. Solutions
to these problems are currently being discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. The Closing Date of
the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982
to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance to cover short term protective
Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass. GOB and IDA
are investigating causes of the failures and possible remedies.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Credit effectiveness was three and a half months behind original
schedule. Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered, and bid documents for telecommunications
equipment are ready and awaiting clearance by TTB. Lists of spare parts
for BIWTC cargo vessel have been prepared and most items have been ordered.
Consultants appointed to carry out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling
of BIWTC and accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their
reports. Implementation of the recommendations of the accounting studies
is in progress. At the request of the Borrower the closing date has been
extended to December 31, 1982.



- 46 -
rage 13
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979;  Effective Date:  August 29, 1980;  Closing Date:  Ju.ne 30.
1984.
Implementation of the project has been delayed as a result of the
Borrower's failure to make timely recommendations for award of construction
contracts. Since these contracts were scheduled to commence early October
1980, at the beginning of the construction season, the project has been
delayed by about two years and completion by the anticipated completion
date of May 1983 is no longer possible. Completion by the Credit Closing
Date of June 30, 1984 is possible but is dependent on much improved Borrower
performance and avoidance of further unnecessary delays.
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit.
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on July 24, 1981. Contract for trial
dredging at Chittagong for which retroactive financing has been approved,
has been under execution since April 1981 and is progressing satisfactorily.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organizing
its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development. TTB
funds have until recently all been deposited in an overall Government account.
This was changed and, since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank account to
which all funds are deposited and withdrawn. Thus, TTB has achieved a level of
financial autonomy that will permit it to adjust its development program within
the overall framework of the agreed budget. Training on commercial accounts
is about to be completed and commercial accounts will be prepared from FY82/83
onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good. Cove-
nants under the project are now being complied with. TTB has recently taken
final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under t1he project.
Works related to last procurement will be completed by June 1983. Adequate
actions as would be required to further improve TTB's management, operations
and development capability, will be considered under the proposed third tele-
communications project.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
35 subprojects, totaling about $9.0 million have been approved and
a further 10 subprojects, totaling about $9 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the recently approved Fourth
Technical Assistance credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. A number of
proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being taken
to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date:  November 20, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981.
Cr. No. 1091  Bakhrabad Gas Development Project:  US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Pipeline design and preparation of procurement documents is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. After initial delays due to unseasonal rains and
materials shortages, BK-2 well has been completed. Production tests confirm
the adequacy of reserves of the Bakhrabad gas fields, and the procurement
of materials and services for the pipeline portion of the project has been
authorized. Pipeline materials and construction contracts are expected to
be awarded in time to complete crossings and other preliminary phases during
the 1981/82 dry season and the entire pipeline the following year.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 15
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have virtually completed design
and it is expected that procurement will be completed by end 1981. Physical
progress is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow start-
up and sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems
and shortage of local currency with which to pay civil works contractors.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is now in place and design is now progressing satisfactorily. Selection of
a second consultant for a sewerage/sanitation study is now in progress. An
expatriate financial adviser has taken post and is proving effective. Pro-
curement has started but implementation will be about 1 1/2 years behind
schedule.



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
Identification of credit               February 1981
Appraisal mission                      March/April 1981
Negotiations                           October/November 1981
Date of effectiveness (planned)        December 1981
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
GOB will:
(a) as a condition of Credit effectiveness, issue at
least 50% of the import licenses in respect of the
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed Credit (paragraphs 100 and 105 of the text);
(b) deposit Taka funds, equivalent to the amount with-
drawn from the proceeds of the proposed Credit,
in an account currently being maintained with the
Bangladesh Bank and utilize these counterpart funds
entirely to finance its development programs (para-
graph 103 of the text);
(c)  cause BADC to offer for sale to the private sector
its entire stock of used low-lift pumps and deep
tubewells and to ensure the complete disposal of
these stocks by June 30, 1984 (paragraph 92 of
the text);
(d) cause BADC to sell to the private sector new minor
irrigation equipment procured after June 30, 1981
(paragraph 92 of the text);
(e) cause BADC to establish, no later than June 30, 1982,
a sales price structure for shallow tubewells which
will ensure full coverage of all costs incurred by
BADC in the procurement and marketing of such equip-
ment (paragraph 96 of the text).



ANNEX III
-50                                                   Page 2
IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT X
Policy Issues and Measures
Note: *denotes measures specifically linked with Imports Program Credit X.
Actions Taken                             Actual/Planned
Policy Area                          Specific Issues                               or to be Taken                        Implementation Dates                    a
Foodgrain Production           (a) Provide adequate incentives to             - Announcing adequate procurement              * September 1, 1981
farmers and reduce price risks              prices before sowing of crops
faced by farmers                          - Increasing public procurement                 ongoing
at guaranteed prices in surplus
areas and for all foodgrain crops
- Increasing competition in grain              25% of AGDs abolisbed by
trade in rural areas through                   November 15, 1980;
phased abolition of Approved                *50% by November 15, 1981
Grain Dealers (AGDs)
- Increasing public sector foodgrain            ongoing
storage and procurement capacity
(b) Improve distribution and                  - Shifting responsibility for input             in progress
utilization of key inputs,                  provision and distribution to
while reducing budgetary costs               private sector
- Gradually reducing or eliminating             in progress:
input subsidies on fertilizers,               *tertilizers:  by June 30, 1985
diesel fuel and minor irrigation                diesel fuel:  May 1981
equipment                                     *minor irrigation equipment:
by June 30, 1984
1I.  Minor Irrigation               (a) Reduce inefficient and                     - Increasing rental fees for LLPs              *November 1, 1981
unnecessary subsidies                       and DTWs
- Phasing out public sector rental             *started on November 16, 1981;
programs for DTVs and LLPs by                to be completed by June 30, 1984
selling existing stock of used
rental equipment outright
- Selling all new minor irrigation             *July 1, 1981
equipment
- Developing sales pricing formula             *June 30, 1982
for different types of minor
.,irrigation equipment on the basis
of total procurement and marketing
costs per unit of water generating
capacity
(b) Improve utilization and                   - Shifting from subsidized rental              *in progress; to be completed
maintenance of available                     to full-cost sales of irrigation              by June 30, 1984
minor irrigation equipment                  equipment
- Targeting equipment sales more                Joint GOB/IDA review in
effectively towards established                 progress
farmers' cooperatives
- Eliminating price differential               *}ay 1981
between diesel fuel and kerosene
(which has been causing fuel
adulteration and damage to engines)
(c) Redude public sector involvement          - Full-cost pricing by public sector           *in phased progress
and encourage private sector to             agencies to ensure parity with
undertake supply, distribution              private sector suppliers
and servicing of minor irrigation         - Providing adequate medium-term               *November 1981
equipment                                   credit to cooperatives
(d) Encourage domestic manufacture of         - Liberalizing private sector                  *ongoing
irrigation equipment without                imports of spare parts, raw
excessive protection                        materials and components
- Gradual phasing-out of public                *appropriate time-phasing
sector procurement, import and                  under review
marketing of minor irrigation
equipment
- Adjusting the structure of duties,           *in progress
taxes and draw-back schemes to
ensure competitiveness between
imports and domestic manufacture
and between private and public
sectors and to provide appropriate
structure and level of protection
for domestic manufacture



- 51 -                                                      ANNEX III
Page 3
Actions Taken                           Actual/Planned
Policy Area                     Specific Issues                               or to be Taken                       Iuplesntation Dates
III.  Foodgrain Distribution,    (a) Stabilize foodgrain supply                - Stabilizing prices through Open            July 1, 1981
Storage and Stock               and consumer prices during                Market Sales (O)S) of paddy.
Management                      lean seasons                              rice and wheat from public stocks
during periods of short market
supply
(b) Direct foodgrain supply from            - Reducing size and changing                 ongoing
public stocks to the needy                composition of ration quota
- Shifting to OMS                            July 1, 1981
(c) Improve utilization of public        1 - Ensuring adequate differentials            hybruary 15, 19ft
sector storage capacity                   between procurement prices for
(d) Encourage private sector paddy            paddy and for milled rice
processing
(e) Reduce losses during storage            - Improving food stock handling              studies and actions
in public storage through                    in progress;
regular inspections, pest                 *study reports to IDA
control, disposal of infested                for review by
stocks, proper first-in/first-out            June 30, 1982
stock rollover, etc.
(f) Promote private sector grain            - Providing credit to finance private        ongoing (under IPC IX)
storage and marketing                     grain stock holding and storage
construction
- Suspending restrictive grain               done (under IPC IX)
trade regulations and anti-hoarding
rules
- Disseminating market information           ongoing (under IPC IX)
through public media
- Standardizing marker weights and           study in progress (under IPC IX)
measures
IV. Foodgrain Situation           (a) Monitor implementation of MTFPP         - Setting up MTFPP monitoring                 in progreirs
Monitoring and Planning          and of individual projects                system  (with TA from IDA)
(b) Monitor foodgrain availability          - Establishing FFPMS (including              in progress
and demand                                full staffing, determination
of appropriate work programs,
setting up information flows to
and from FFPMS)
- Improving reliability of public           *January 1982
foodgrain stock records through
-frequent inventories and proper
accounting for losses incurred
V. Agricultural Development    (a) Ensure allocation and release             - Ensuring priority funding to                ongoing
Financing                        of sufficient funds for                   agriculture, particularly the MTFPP
agricultural development                - Initiating study of causes of             *study in progress;
problem of inadequate release of             report to IDA by
funds                                        Marcb 31, 1982
- Improving planning and budgeting          *TA request being
process for implementing MTFPP               formulated
(with TA from IDA)
- Replenishing all revolving funds          *procedures under review
for aid-supported projects
(b) Reduce budgetary impact of              - Shifting to OMS at prices close            July 1, 1981
foodgrain subsidy and                    to full cost
procurement                             - Increasing issue prices for ration         ongoing
distribution
- Improving food budgeting, including       *study in progress;
proper accounting of economic                report to IDA by
subsidies, stock valuation,                  March 1, 1982
separation of capital and recurrent
costs. etc.
(c) Promote increased private               - Shifting to sales of equipment and         in progress
sector financing of agricultural          inputs at or near full cost
development                             - Providing sufficient short- and            vbevter 1981
medium-term credit, particularly
through cooperative system



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
The Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP)
1.        Having identified the agriculture sector as a top priority for
its medium-term development strategy and the foodgrain subsector as the most
crucial within this sector, the Government decided to supplement its Second
Five-Year Plan with a specific and detailed subsectoral plan for foodgrain
production and water development. Work on this plan was initiated in late
1978, with technical assistance from IDA, and a draft Medium-Term Foodgrain
Production Plan (MTFPP) was completed in the fall of 1980. Following an
intensive review and revision process, it was issued in final form in March
I 9 8 -1L
2.        The MTFPP represents a detailed subsectoral plan and implementation
program for the development of agricultural and rural infrastructure required
to move Bangladesh to foodgrain self-sufficiency by 1985. The MTFPP, thus,
constitutes a blueprint for GOB-s development strategy for the water develop-
ment and foodgrain production sectors. 1/ The basic strategy underlying
the kFPP is to make the greatest possible use of the private initiative of
the country-s seven million farmers by providing them with the resources and
services which they have shown themselves capable of utilizing effectively.
Thus, 85% of the total planned investments will be for infrastructure needed
to improve the provision of water control, commercial production inputs and
market access.
3.        In the MTFPP, the projected input requirements for producing 20
Tmillion tons of foodgrains (which would constitute foodgrain self-sufficiency
at a level of about 17 ounces of daily per capita consumption if reached by
FY85) have been disaggregated and then grouped into a portfolio of investment
projects and programs. This portfolio is the core of the MrFPP-s physical
program. The other (and equally important) principal feature of the MTFPP
is its attendant implementation framework. The portfolio provides an over-
vie-i of the investment package, a basis for monitoring implementation, and a
goide fror donors who wish to support Bangladesh-s agricultural development.
An important aspect of the portfolio is that it consists largely of short-
gesLatlon, high-priority and divisible projects ready for immediate donor
appraisal and Government implementation.  This characteristic of the program
lerns aen important degree of flexibility to its financing and implementation.
T'L shoUid be noted, however, that for many projects only briefs have so far
been prepared and that considerable additional work will be required.
1/  W'!hlle the MTFPP aims most specifically at foodgrain self-sufficiency by
t93-, its implementation will also greatly improve the production environ-
it and output potential for other crops.  The benefits from the provision
-r irrigation and fertilizer, the construction of rural roads and storage
facilities, and the intensification of agricultural research and extensior
- ol1n   be limited solely to foodgrain production.  Several projects in
--e 1FPP portfolio also aim specifically at increasing the production of
sth.er   portant crops, e.g., by providing improved seeds, research and



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
Plan Size and Financing Requirements
4.        The MTFPP portfolio consists of 57 specific projects, almost all of
which are linked directly to foodgrain production, processing, and distribu-
tion. Its total financing requirements (in constant FY80 prices) have been
estimated at Tk 86 billion (US$5.4 billion) for its five-year implementation
period, 1/ of which roughly Tk 24 billion (US$1.5 billion) comprise private
sector outlays for non-investment inputs (fertilizer, pesticides, fuel for
irrigation pumps, vaccines and seeds). 2/ The capital investment is esti-
mated at TK 62 billion ( US$3.9 billion)--Tk 51 billion in the public sector
and Tk 11 biliion for minor irrigation facilities in the private sector. 3/
5.        The foreign exchange component of the entire MTFPP package (inclu-
sive of recurrent inputs in both the public and private sector components)
is estimated at Tk 45 billion (in constant FY80 prices)--equivalent to US$2.8
billion. Of this, US$1.28 billion would be for investments in fertilizer
distribution facilities and for direct fertilizer imports, US$126 million for
the production and distribution of seeds, pesticides, etc., $736 million for
minor irrigation facilities, $214 million for major irrigation, drainage and
flood control projects, $214 million for rural infrastructure and institu-
tions, $175 million for marketing, storage and transport, and $59 million
for research, extension and training.
6.        Foreign aid support has already been secured.for a number of MTFPP
projects, but for many others donor commitments remain to be obtained. IDA
has recommended that donors give high priority to the funding of the MTFPP
portfolio and consider making generous provisions for local currency financ-
ing. Indeed as many of the MTFPP components constitute repeater projects
of successful past undertakings, substantial sector financing would be both
desirable and possible. Tk 41 billion (equivalent ot more than $2.5 billion)
in domestic financing will be required to implement the MTFPP, even after
allowing for the expected generation of counterpart funds from the sale of
aid-financed fertilizer imports.
1/ Because considerable work on the MTFPP took place following publication of
the draft SFYP, the MTFPP's input, financing and output targets in several
respects supersede those contained in the (draft) SFYP.
2/ The significantly larger private financing requirements shown in the MTFPP
(compared to the draft SFYP) are mainly due to two recent policy decisions
taken by GOB and to one important difference in coverage: (i) the decision
to sell increasing numbers of LLPs, STWs and DTWs to private owners, rather
than to continue to lease them out at highly subsidized rates; (ii) the
increase in fertilizer sales prices effected in November 1980 and the
decision to continue to reduce the unit subsidy on fertilizer throughout
the SFYP period; and (iii) the fact that private sector expenditures for
fertilizer purchases were not included in the sectoral financing summary
provided in the draft SFYP, but are included in the MTFPP cost estimates.
3/ All financial estimates for the MTFPP were prepared using an exchange
rate of Taka 16 per US Dollar.



- 54 -
Page 3
Table 1: PROJECTED FINANCING REQUIREMENTS OF THE MTFPP
(in billions of US$; in constant prices - HY,80)
Public                                     Foreign
Sector,     Private                        Exchange
Subsector               Net /a       Sector /b      Total/c      Requirements
Minor Irrigation            0.56        0.67 /d         1.23           0.76
Major Irrigation,
Drainage & Flood
Control (BWDB)           0.63            -           0.63            0.22
Fertilizer, Pesti-
cides & Seeds            0.71        1.47 id         2.18            1.46
Marketing, Storage
& Transport              0.55           -            0.55           0.18
Research, Extension
& Training               0.17           -            0.17           0.06
Rural Institutions
& Infrastructure         0.60           -            0.60            0.22
Total                 3.22         2.14           5.36           2.90
/a   Gross public sector outlays net of recoveries from the private sector
through the sale of minor irrigation equipment, fertilizer, etc.
/b   Excludes private investments in kind.
/c   Excludes public sector investments to be realized through mass
mobilization of voluntary labor.
/d   The private sector share of financing would be 54% and 67%, respectively,
in minor irrigation and in the supply of recurrent inputs (fertilizer,
pesticides, seed). Achieving these targets calls for assuring adequate
investment incentives and for the provision of sufficient credit
facilities.
Source: MTFPP.
Input Targets and Requirements
7.        In preparing the SFYP, a number of the principal agricultural out-
put targets were exogenously determined (i.e., predetermined at political
levels), with input and investment requirements subsequently estimated on
the basis of technical and financial coefficients. This approach inevitably
resulted in a relative neglect of behavioral, institutional and policy vari-
ables critical to the determination of actual (as distinguished from planned)
input/output relationships and gave rise to substantial margins of error in
the projections. The MTFPP, however, provides a more substaicisal basis
(consisting of the project portfolio) for estimating capital requirements
for the foodgrain subsector and the irrigation program, and the irnput/output



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
Table 2: MAJOR PHYSICAL INPUT TARGETS OF THE MTFPP
Estimated
Achievement
Inputs                    Unit           FY80            FY85 Target
LLPs in operation           no.              38,600              50,000
STWs in operation           no.              23,000            125,000
DTWs in operation           no.               9,800             25,000
HTWs in operation           no.             120,000            500,000
Acreage irrigated by
major gravity schemes   '000 acres            241                850
Total acreage under
irrigation (net) /a       mill. acres        3.65               7.22
Fertilizer use             -000 tons            838               1,900
Pesticide distribution      tons                2.6                 5.5
/a   Including traditional irrigation methods.
Source: MTFPP.
relationships have also been examined with somewhat more rigor than character-
izes the other subsectoral programs. Table 2 provides a summary of the most
important physical input requirement and supply targets under the MTFPP.
8.        The pivotal input component of the agricultural production program,
especially with respect to foodgrains, is the 100% increase targeted in irri-
gated acreage, from,the benchmark level of 3.6 million acres to 7.2 million
acres in FY85. Minor irrigation is to account for about 80% of the incremental
irrigated area, and half of the increased foodgrain production would be attri-
butable to this. Other particularly notable input targets include: a more
than doubling of fertilizer use; extension of flood control and drainage
schemes to cover an additional 1.5 million acres; a 50% increase in public
sector foodgrain storage capacity; expansion of agricultural credit at an
average rate of about 25% per year; and expansion of the paddy area culti-
vated with HYV seeds from 3.1 million acres to 7.9 million acres.
9.        The program will also entail complementary investments in infra-
structure (including for rural roads and rural electrification) and insti-
tutional developments. For example, special attention will be given to
developing farmer organizations to promote optimum use of investment in
irrigation. To support the large expansion in the volume of fertilizers to
be distributed, storage capacity will be increased. Particular emphasis will
be given to adaptive research, based on feedback from the extension service,



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5
while farmer training will be intensified through the training and visit (T&V)
extension system.  To lessen dependence on imported supplies, GOB has issued
licenses to local entrepreneurs for manufacturing diesel engines for use in
tubewell irrigation. A program for setting up maintenance workshops in the
private sector has been launched, and input supply will continue to be handed
over to the private sector. Progress is being made regarding the sale of
tubewells and low-lift pumps to cooperative groups or individual farmers, and
steps have been taken to increase the availability of credit to cooperative
farmers and to liberalize credit facilities. Private grain traders are being
given more liberal access to credit both for trading and for the construction
of private storage.
10.       The realization of GOBs ambitious input targets will require drastic
imnrovement in implementation capacity.  Between FY73 and FY80, for example,
the average annual increase in irrigated area was only about 100,000 acres,
coimpared to an increase of over 700,000 acres per year projected for the SFYP
perl od. The number of deep tubewells sunk by BADC has averaged merely 915 per
anrnum during the past five years; nearly 5,000 new DTWs will have to be com-
missloned every year during the SFYP period to meet the target. Compared to
an average annual increase in the number of LLPs fielded by BADC of about 550
between FY76 and FY80, the MTFPP will require an average of 2,200 new LLPs
to be fielded annually each year. The number of shallow tubewells to be in
operation by FY85 is to be nearly 6 times the total number put into operation
since the ST5 program was initiated in FY72. Finally, the area sown to HYVs
expanded by only 15% from FY75 through FY79, compared with the 150% increase
required under the MTFPP.
Oitput Targets and Production Framework
11.       The input objectives described in Table 2 should be assessed in the
context of Table 3 which shows more explicitly the input/output framework of
the =TFPP. It indicates that the targeted increase in foodgrain production
wil' be directly contingent upon the effective implementation of a number of
specific programs designed to raise productivity and cropping intensity.
12.       To achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85 will require a
gross output of cereals of 20 million tons. Allowing 10% for seed, feed and
losses in processing, storage and distribution, the net production of 18
million tons available for human consumption would be sufficient to provide
an average of Just over 17 ounces daily per person for the projected popula-
tion of 103 million. A sujstained achievement of 20 million tons of foodgrain
output tr FY85 would imply an average annual rate of production growth of 7.2%
over the average "benchmark" achievement of 13.2 million tons of FY78-FY80.
While this is very ambitious, the MTFPP production framework illustrates how
it is to be accomplished.
13.       About two thirds of the increase in production will come from better
yields and the remainder from higher cropping intensities. Unlike in the past
two decades when most of the growth in output came from the expansion of boro
rice acreage and, more recently, from the rapid growth in wheat acreage, growth



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
during the next five years is expected to be more evenly distributed over all
four crops (wheat, boro, aus and aman rice). As Table 3 shows, it is expected
to result largely from the expansion of irrigation and flood control.
14.       The greatest stimulus to foodgrain production is expected to stem
from the provision of additional irrigation facilities for dry-season cropping
(on 3 million acres) and of supplementary irrigation for rain-fed grains (on 2
million acres). 1/ The bulk of these increases will be attributable to minor
irrigation schemes (pumps and tubewell), where engine and pump procurement
and installation and sufficient and timely provision of fuels and other
operating necessities will be critical. Achievement of these targets will
depend, therefore, on the ability of both GOB and the private sector to ensure
timely delivery of adequate equipment and supplies.
15.       In addition, the targeted installation by the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB) of additional drainage and flood control facilities
on 1.5 million acres would reduce the risks associated with rain-fed HYV aus
and aman paddy cultivation. In the past, completion of such schemes has been
affected adversely by BWDB's excessive emphasis on large-scale projects and by
cumbersome administrative procedures leading to bottlenecks. Thus, the recent
shift in BWDB's project portfolio in favor of smaller-scale projects is a
constructive step, although much remains to be done to streamline implementa-
tion procedures.
16.     Increased capacity utilization of existing irrigation facilities is
projected to account for some 500,000 tons of additional foodgrain production.
The achievement of this objective will require adequate and timely supplies
of fuel, lubricants and spare parts, together with sufficient repair and
maintenance facilities. Continued movement towards full-cost pricing and
outright sales of equipment to final users should, by raising fixed costs
to be recovered by users, encourage increases in command area utilization.
Equally important will be the efforts required by local officials (in par-
ticular extension agents) to improve the cohesion and managerial capabilities
of pump groups.
17.       Even more sizeable benefits (one million tons of additional food-
grains by FY85) are expected to accrue from the widespread adoption of
improved cultivation practices, including expanded fertilizer use, better
land preparation, sowing, weeding, nursery care, and pest control. These
may be the most difficult to achieve insofar as the constraints may be least
susceptible to policy influence. Greater and more effective extension ser-
vices will clearly be vital. The shortage of animal draft power is likely
to become an increasingly important constraint to improved land preparation.
And incentive output pricing will be crucial to motivate cultivators to incur
the additional costs associated with such improved cultivation practices.
1/ In interpreting Table 3, it should be noted that the increased production
attributed to the increase in irrigated area does not represent the mar-
ginal productivity of irrigation alone. It reflects also the assumption
that other modern inputs (fertilizers, pesticides, etc.) will be used
more intensively in the (newly) irrigated areas.



-58  -                         ANNEX Iv
Page 7
Table 3:  PRODUCTION FRAMEWORK FOR THE MEDIUM-TERM FOODGRAIN PRODUCTION PLAN
Million tons
Aggregate Foodgrain Output, "Benchmark" Year FY78                        13.1
Switch to HYVs for rain-fed aus and aman                               1.0
(2.5 million acres at 0.4 t/ac /a)
Expansion of acreage for rain-fed wheat                                0.5
(1 million acres at 0.5 t/ac)
Improved cultivation practices                                         1.0
(25 million acres at 1 maund/ac /b)
Improved capacity utilization of existing irrigation
facilities for boro/wheat/early aus
(0.5 million acres at i't/ac /c)                                     0.5
Additional irrigation facilities for boro/wheat/early aus
(3 million acres at 1 t/ac /d)                                       3.0
Supplementary irrigation for rain-fed aus and aman
(2 million acres at 0.25 t/ac /e)                                    0.5
Additional drainage and flood control facilities
(1.5 million acres at 0.25 t/ac /f)                                  0.4
Aggregate Potential Foodgrain Output, Terminal Year FY85                20.0
(Less contingency for adverse weather, implementation
deficiencies and delays, etc.)                                      (-2.0)
Aggregate potential net foodgrain output, FY85                        18.0
/a The acreage for rain-fed HYV aus is to be expanded from 0.8 million to
1.8 million acres, that for rain-fed HYV aman from 0.4 million to 1.9
million acres. Average yields for local varieties of rain-fed aus and
aman are 0.5 t/ac, compared to 0.9 t/ac for rain-fed HYVs.
/b Better nursery care, timely sowing, line sowing instead of broadcast
sowing, ensuring full stand, increased fertilizer application, improved
pest and disease control, improved weeding, etc.
/c 'Tcpanding the actual command area for 37,000 LLPs by 5 acres each, for
7,500 DTWs by 20 acres each, and for 15,000 STWs by 7 acres each;
expanding the acreage served by existing BWDB schemes by 60,000 acres.
/d  Adding the following new irrigation facilities:
7,000 2-cusec LLPs, at 45 acres each          0.315 million acres
6,000 1-cusec LLPs, at 25 acres each          0.150 million acres
17,500 DTWs, at 60 acres each                  1.050 million acres
115,000 STWs, at 12.5 acres each                1.437 million acres
500,000 HTWs, at 0.4 acres each                 0.400 million acres
Additional BWDB schemes                         0.600 million acres
Total (gross)                                 3.902 million acres
Less: reduction in traditional
irrigation                        0.300 million acres
Net Increase                                  3.6   million acres
It is assumed that about 600,000 acres of this additional irrigated
acreage will be utilized for the cultivation of non-cereal crops such
as potatoes, vegetables, oilseeds, cotton, etc.
/e Assuming that supplementary irrigation is both feasible and necessary
only on about 2 million acres out of a total irrigated area of about
7.2 million acres targeted to be operational by FY85.
If The acreage irrigated by various BWDB schemes is targeted to increase
from about 240,000 acres in FY80 to approximately 850,000 acres by FY85.
This is to be accomplished by emphasizing the relatively smaller and
quick-yielding schemes in BWDB's project portfolio.



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8
Related Policy Issues
18.       The socio-economic characteristics of Bangladesh's agricultural
production structure are growth-retarding. The problems of land tenure, plot
consolidation, semi-feudal patron-client relationships in the villages, and
highly skewed income and land distribution will need to be dealt with more
decisively in order to maximize the utilization of agricultural inputs and
to achieve the improved income distribution necessary to generate adequate
effective demand for the targeted outputs. Similarly, the availability of
institutional credit to all cultivators will be of crucial importance in
supporting the demand for such modern inputs (and in breaking the traditional
hold of village money-lenders on small farmers); the capacity of the banking
institutions to provide such credit and to assure recovery and recycling of
credit funds will be severely strained. Finally, as noted above, extension
and research activities will need to be greatly strengthened in order to
ensure that farmers are made aware of available technology and inputs and
that available resources are better utilized.
19.       The drive for increased cereals production need not have any adverse
impact on other crops, as there are large opportunities for increasing cropping
intensities through the provision of irrigation during the dry season and of
drainage and flood control during the monsoon. It is also worth emphasizing
that the cropping pattern depicted in Table 3 is merely indicative and based
on the current assessment of the exploitable resource base and the techno-
logical possibilities over the medium term. The actual cropping patterns will
be determined cumulatively through the individual and independent decisions of
Bangladesh's 7 million farmers based on their own assessment of the associated
risks and rewards. The key thrust of the MTFPP is to upgrade the agricultural
production base. If future technological developments and market forces were
to make non-cereal crops more remunerative, there is no reason why much of the
additional production capacity could not be shifted to those crops. Similarly,
any shift in national priorities towards more balanced nutrition and/or
towards export-oriented agriculture could be transmitted to the farm level
through the various instruments at the Government's disposal (e.g., management
of relative prices and demand levels as well as trade policies). Thus, even
though the explicit focus of the MTFPP is on cereals, it could equally well
accommodate other crops, if warranted by the evolution of national needs and
priorities.
Achievements During the First Year of the Plan
20.       Implementation performance of the MTFPP during its first year has
generally been satisfactory, although the fielding of low-lift pumps and
hand tubewells fell well behind the- original targets set for FY81. Moreover,
to the extent that new minor irrigation facilities fielded do not become
immediately operational, performance with regard to actual acreage irrigated
lags behind fielding performance. Sales of STWs and commissionings of newly
fielded DTWs during FY81 were in line with the MTFPP targets, but in both
categories the number of units in operation was slightly below targets. The
overall shortfall in LLPs fielded was essentially an unanticipated side-effect



60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9
of the policy shift from heavily subsidized rental programs to outright
sales: LLP rentals declined by about 6,100 units from the FY80 level, but
LLP sales totalled almost 2,200 units. Hand tubewell sinking, at about
55,000 during FY81, fell short of the ambitious target of 85,000, but was
almost double the previous record achievement of 29,000 in FY79.
21.       Performance in the delivery and utilization of other essential
inputs was somewhat mixed. Fertilizer supply was sufficient to sustain
offtake in line with early utilization targets, but actual farmer offtake--
at 875,000 tons--increased only marginally from the record level of FY80.
Pesticide distribution, turned over to the private sector in 1980, encoun-
tered a number of bottlenecks and difficulties during the switch-over period,
and supply shortages, distribution difficulties and product adulteration,
together with high prices, are reported to have contributed to serious crop
losses from massive pest attacks in parts of the country in late FY81 and
early FY82. The utilization of HYV seeds for both paddy and wheat increased
in line with MTFPP targets, and the supply of diesel fuel for irrigation
facilities was sufficient to cover demand. (To the extent that kerosene
prices were significantly below diesel prices throughout most of the FY81
irrigation season, farmer demand for diesel was artificially depressed be-
cause cheaper kerosene was used to adulterate diesel fuel; this problem was
successfully overcome with the price equalization effected by GOB in May
1981.)
22.       On the output side, the first year of the MTFPP period was auspi-
cious, as total foodgrain production reached the new record level of 14.8
million tons, about 11% above the FY80 level. Wheat production continued to
increase at the impressive pace of the late 1970s, reaching a level of 1.1
million tons. Rice output gains, although significant in the aggregate, were
somewhat uneven among the different crops. The aman and boro harvests both
set new records, but the aus crop--although not poor--was slightly lower than
the record crop of FY79.
23.       Taken together, thus, the good overall output performance of FY81
should not be falsely overemphasized: while it reflected improved input and
support service provision and utilization as much as favorable weather condi-
tions, it also may be regarded as merely putting Bangladesh foodgrain produc-
tion back on the longer-term growth trend which had been severely interrupted
by the 1979 drought. Furthermore, the very low farmgate prices recorded
(despite an unprecedented procurement effort by MOF) after the FY81 bumper
aman harvest and the disappointing utilization of fertilizers and irrigation
facilities during the subsequent boro season cast a warning shadow over the
prospects for sustaining the annual foodgrain output growth rates required to
meet the MTFPP target of self-sufficiency by FY85 unless all the necessary
policy measures and developmental programs are implemented fully and in proper
phasing with each other; failure to maintain incentive output prices is likely
to offset much of the potential output gains that could otherwise be expected
as a result of the various input supply programs.



- 61 -
ANNEX V
Page 1
-PROGRESS REPORT ON THE
NINTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
1.        The objective of the Ninth Imports Program Credit was to support
policy improvements to increase the production as well as the efficiency and
equity of the distribution of foodgrains and, thus, to improve the overall
conditions for economic growth in Bangladesh. The policy improvements
envisaged under the Credit concerned the allocation of resources to agricul-
tural development, encouragement of the private sector-s role in the supply
of irrigation equipment and in the trading of foodgrains, expansion of public
sector foodgrain storage capacity, improvement of food policy coordination and
strengthening of agricultural planning.
Financial Allocations for Agriculture and Irrigation,
Drainage and Flood Control
2.        In keeping with SFYP objectives and the MTFPP targets, the Govern-
ment substantially increased the share of the Annual Development Program (ADP)
allocated for agricultural development (excluding the fertilizer subsidy)
from 22% in the actual ADP for FY80 to 28.7% in the adjusted ADP for FY81.
It became apparent early on in FY81 that, as a result of the large domestic
procurement of foodgrains and the shortfall in commodity aid, total resource
availability for development expenditures would fall short of the budgeted Tk
27.0 billion. The overall FY81 ADP was therefore revised downwards to Tk 23.5
billion and the percentage cutbacks were distributed almost equally among
sectors. The share of agriculture (excluding the fertilizer subsidy) remained
roughly constant at 28.8%. It should be noted that, in spite of the cutbacks
in development expenditures, outlays on agricultural development in FY81 still
increased by 50% in nominal terms over FY80, representing a real increase of
some 35%. In FY81 there was also a marked shift in the composition of agri-
cultural development outlays, reflecting the emphasis of the Medium-Term
Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) on minor irrigation.
Diesel Fuel and Spare Parts for Irrigation Equipment
3.        An important factor in the success of the minor irrigation program
will be the full utilization of existing and newly installed irrigation
facilities. Prior to FY81, pumps and tubewells had been frequently idled by
shortages of diesel fuel and spare parts. In order to avoid these shortages,
GOB agreed to provide in the BADC budget and the Annual Import Policy in FY81
for adequate supplies of diesel fuel and spare parts to ensure the full op-
eration of irrigation equipment. No shortage of these commodities was exper-
ienced during the last irrigation season. Some poblems did emerge, however,
due to the adulteration of diesel fuel with kerosene, the price of which had
been kept low for reasons of socio-economic equity. The mixing of kerosene
with diesel fuel proved deleterious to the efficiency and working life of pump
engines. In May 1981, GOB took the necessary step, in the context of Imports
Program Credit X, of equalizing the prices of diesel and kerosene, thus
eliminating the incentives for adulteration.



- 62 -
ANNEX V
Page 2
4.        As agreed during the preparation of the Ninth Imports Program Credit,
BADC commissioned a study of the need for diesel fuel storage facilities at
the intermediate and Thana levels. The consultant carried out a detailed
analysis of the regional and sub-regional storage needs that will arise from
the implementation of the MTFPP. A draft report was submitted to BADC in
February, and BADC has begun to redesign its fuel storage construction program
in the light of this report.
Agricultural Credit
5.        An important requirement for achieving an acceleration in agricul-
tural production is the provision of additional agricultural credit by the
banking system. The projected increase in agricultural production is pre-
dicated on greatly increased use of irrigation equipment as well as purchased
inputs such as fertilizer, improved seeds, pesticides, diesel fuel and hired
labor. This will lead to a sharp increase in the credit needs of farmers.
Under the Ninth Imports Program Credit, it was intended to provide for an
increase of 15% in real terms in the volume of short-term institutional credit
and for an increase of 20% in real terms in the volume of medium-term credit
for the agricultural sector in FY81.  Final figures for FY81 are not yet
available, but preliminary records indicate that the total volume of agricul-
tural credit is likely to have increased by approximately 30% in real terms
during FY81.
6.        Expansion in the volume of agricultural credit continues to be held
back by several institutional shortcomings of the banking system. The agri-
cultural credit project financed by IDA (Credit No. 1147) aims mainly at the
provision of medium-term credit for the purchase of shallow tubewell equipment
and provides for assistance in improving agricultural credit institutions.
Corrective actions to reduce the default rate include linking the allocation
of credit limits between banks as well as refinancing by the Bangladesh Bank
to the credit recovery performance of each individual bank and seconding
trained loan recovery officers to assist credit institutions in their loan
collection efforts.
Private Sector Role in Irrigation
7.        A major objective of Government policy has been to increase the
involvement of the private sector in the manufacture, distribution and ser-
vicing of minor irrigation equipment. With the increase of farmers demand
for minor irrigation equipment and the expansion in the size of BADC-s minor
irrigation activities, there have been frequent delays in the lnstallation
of pumps and shortages in the availability of spare parts and maintenance
personnel.
8.        Private sector involvement in the sale of irrigat-ona equipment
directly to farmers or farmers  groups has to date been tempered by its weak
competitive position vis-a-vis BADC. Specifically, BADC-s sales prices for
shallow tubewells and components were based only on the c.i     price or
domestic manufacturing cost of the various components, while the private



- 63 -
ANNEX V
Page 3
sector was subject to import duties as well.  In order to provide for some
degree of parity between the public and the private sector, the Government
agreed under the Ninth Imports Program Credit to increase the price of shallow
tubewells sold by BADC by the equivalent of the 15% duty on imported engines.
Implementation of this agreement was delayed, partly because of GOB's desire
to run down the very large stock of inventories held by BADC and partly
because of the need to work out the details and ramifications of the proposed
STW price increase. During the preparation of the Tenth Imports Program
Credit consultations between the Government and IDA continued on this issue
and GOB has now raised sales prices for STWs to cover not only the duty on
imported engines but also the effective duty on ancillary equipment. This
should be sufficient to ensure full parity between the public and private
sectors.
9.        In order to provide the private sector an opportunity to expand
its sales and service activities in the field of minor irrigation, US$8
million were made available under the Ninth Imports Program Credit for the
import by the private sector of engines and of raw materials and components
used in the production of irrigation pumps, pump accessories and spare parts.
Response from the private sector has thus far been limited. This stemmed in
part from undue restrictions by GOB on the size of allocations to individual
importers. In addition private sector interest in the distribution of shallow
tubewells has been limited by the current, probably temporary, glut in the
availability of engines: BADC has some 20,000 engines in stock as a result of
very large imports of its own.
Private Foodgrain Marketing
10.       Improving the private sector-s efficiency in storing, processing and
marketing foodgrains will be a crucial factor in achieving the output targets
of the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan and in ensuring the distribution
of its benefits to lower income groups. Farmers will only produce the addi-
tional quantities of foodgrains required for national self-sufficiency if
they are confident that they can sell them at attractive prices. The public
foodgrain distribution system cannot be expected to reach the majority of poor
consumers, and therefore the prices at which these low-income consumers have
to buy grain largely depend on the efficiency of the private marketing system.
11.       The Ninth Imports Program Credit identified a number of factors
that hampered the ability of the private grain trade to perform its role in
supporting farmgate and rural market prices at harvest time and in carrying
stocks from the harvest to the lean season. These included highly restrictive
anti-hoarding laws, lack of bank credit to finance the holding of grain stocks
and the construction of private grain storage facilities, transport and other
obstacles to private grain movement, the system of Approved Grain Dealers,
absence of standardized market weights and limited availability of information
on market prices and quantities traded.
12.       Under the Ninth Imports Program Credit, the Government agreed to take
several steps to liberalize and provide support to private grain marketing. The
anti-hoarding regulations have been revised and the maximum permissible level of



- 64 -
ANNEX V
Page 4
private stock holdings has been increased from 1000 maunds to 5000 maunds
for wholesalers and from 100 to 250 maunds for retailers.  In addition, the
Bangladesh Bank has instructed the commercial banks to give priority to credit
for the financing of private foodgrain stocks and for the construction of
private grain storage facilities of 100 to 500 tons capacity. Such credits
are now eligible for refinancing by the Bangladesh Bank. In order to improve
price information in the grain market the Government has initiated weekly
broadcasts of prevailing market prices for both the Dacca and regional food-
grain markets.
13.       The designation of Approved Grain Dealers (AGDs) from among the
local grain traders in each procurement area, which had given these dealers
a near-monopoly on sales to the Food Ministry's purchasing centers, did not
achieve the intended effect of securing higher prices to farmers, sTnce AGDs
rarely paLd farmers the official procurement price if market prices were
lower. In order to increase competition among grain dealers in the rural
areas the Government took the decision to phase out the role of AGDs as in-
termediaries in the grain procurement system over a period of three years.
Under an agreement reached in the context of negotiations for the Ninth
Imports Program Credit, GOB abolished AGDs at more than 25% of its foodgrain
purchasing centers.  Further progress in eliminating the AGD system is being
made under the Tenth Imports Program Credit with the abolition of AGDs at an
additional 25% of MOF's purchasing centers.
Foodgrain Storage Study
14.       As the MTFPP target of a roughly 50% increase in domestic foodgrain
production (to 20 million tons) is achieved, the quantity of foodgrains enter-
ing commercial marketing channels is projected to increase by roughly 70-90%.
In view of this large increase, there is clearly a need for rapid expansion
of storage capacity in the near future. Moreover, with the transition towards
food self-sufficiency, the location of storage requirements will shift away
from its present predominant concentration in the seaport areas of Chittagong
and Khulna and in the Dacca area. In order to provide a more comprehensive
and detailed assessment of additional requirements, the Government agreed to
initiate a study to be financed under an IDA Technical Assistance credit. GOB
has requested IDA for an allocation under the Technical Assistance Credit. Bids
to carry out the study under terms-of-reference prepared in close consultation
with IDA have been solicited from a list of qualified consultants, and the
Government is currently evaluating the bids received. In the meantime, IDA
is preparing its Third Foodgrain Storage Project.
Food and Fertilizer Planning and Monitoring Secretariat (FFFMS)
i5.       The urgent nature and the complexity of food policy issues in
Bangladesh demand the establishment of an institutional mechanism to provide
a framework of analysis for Cabinet-level decision-making. A step in this
direction was taken in April 1979, at the time of an emerging food crisis,
when the President reconstituted the Cabinet-level Council Committee on Food,



- 65 -
ANNEX V
Page 5
assumed the Chairmanship himself and designated the Minister of Planning as
Coordinator. At the same time, a Food Planning and Monitoring Unit (FPMU)
was established with the Minister of Planning as convenor and the Permanent
Secretaries of the concerned ministries as its other members. Initially,
the FPMU did not have a secretariat; analytical work for FPMU deliberations
was done mostly on an ad-hoc basis by staff of the Ministry of Food and Civil
Supplies and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests.  In the first half
of 1980, however, the Government established a special FPMU Secretariat
attached to the Ministry of Planning to which a staff of seven professionals
was appointed. Subsequently, the responsibilities of this Secretariat were
expanded to include the monitoring of the fertilizer situation, and it was
designated Food and Fertilizer Planning and Monitoring Secretariat (FFPMS).
Four additional professional positions were sanctioned, including two at the
level of section chief.
16.       Under the Ninth Imports Program Credit, the Government agreed to
ensure adequate staffing of the FFPMS, but long delays were encountered as
a result of bureaucratic impediments to hiring. Only recently the three
remaining vacancies at the level of section chief have been filled. A further
concern has been that the initial work program of the FFPMS was focused too
much on the preparation of general review papers rather than on the analysis
of specific factors having a near-term impact on the foodgrain and fertilizer
situation within the country. This concern has been addressed in the context
of the appraisal of the Tenth Imports Program Credit, and the Government has
taken steps to rectify this problem.
Planning Cell in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
17.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests has established an Agri-
cultural Planning Cell as part of an internal reorganization of the Ministry
which, among other things has led to the establishment of a separate planning
and development wing under a newly appointed Additional Secretary. The new
Wing permits better organizational separation than hitherto existed between
tasks related to development activities in the agricultural sector, contacts
with aid donors, and policy preparation, planning and monitoring. The task
of policy preparation, planning and monitoring has been entrusted to the new
Planning Cell. The Cell is to function as the Secretariat to the Agricultural
Review Committee, which consists of representatives of other parts of the
Agriculture Ministry and of the agencies under its supervision.  When fully
staffed, the Planning Cell will have 24 professionals, of whom 12 would be
highly qualified and experienced professionals and 12 research officers.



BANGLADESH
UTILIZATION BY SECTOR OF PREVIOUS IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDITS
(in US$ million, as of June 30, 1981)
First      Second      Third      Fourth    Fifth       Sixth    Seventh    Eighth    Ninth
(345-BD)  (458-BD)    (515-BD)  (591-BD)   (676-BD)  (752-BD) (866-BD)    (980-BD) (1071-BD) Total
Agricultural Equipment              8.4        *           -          *          *          *         *            *          -        8.4
Diesel Fuel for Agriculture         *          *           *          *          *          *         *            *          -       0.0
Pesticides                          *          *           *          *          *          *         *            *          -       0.0
Fertilizers & Raw Materials
for Fertilizer Manufacture    5.5           2.2         9.0        4.1       10.0        4.4       6.8         9.7        *       51.7
Components, Chemicals, Raw
Materials, Spare Parts,
Equipment and Packing
Materials for:
Jute Industry                       1.6        3.8         4.9        5.7         7.5        5.7       1.8         *          *       31.0
Textile Industry                    9.8       11.4        18.6       50.0       28.5       27.9      30.6          9.7        5.5   192.0           >
Paper & Board Industry              0.9        2.9         6.5        0.6         1.2       5.6       5.2          2.4        -      25.3
Food & Allied Products
Industry                         3.1        2.8         *          *          *          *         *           *          *        5.9
Chemical & Pharmaceutical
Industry                         7.3        9.6         7.3       15.3        5.0        4.1       6.2         6.4         1.3    62.5
Sugar Industry                      0.3        1.0         0.9        0.8        *          *         *            0.4        0.3      3.7
Steel & Foundry Industry            0.5        7.3         9.6        8.7        3.0        15.5     17.0          6.2        9.6    77.4
Selected Export-Oriented
Industries                       *          *           0.7        0.9        2.0        0.7       0.5         -          -        4.8
Commercial Vehicle Industry         6.3        3.4         2.7        2.7        *           *         *           *          *       15.1
Small-Scale Industry                1.5        0.4         0.5        *          *           *         *           *          *        2.4
Construction Industry               1.3        4.3        14.3       11.2       17.8       11.1        6.9         7.6        4.7    79.2
Shipbuilding Industry               3.3        0.9         *          *          *          *         *            *          *        4.2
Telecommunications Industry         0.2        *           *          *           *          *         *           *          *        0.2
Totals                   50.0       50.0        75.0      100.0        75.0       75.0      75.0        42.4       21.4    563.8
__ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ ___ _ _ __ _ _ __        _ _a N
H
* = not eligible.
Source: IBRD, Disbursements Division.



BANGLADESH
USE OF FUND RESOURCES
(in millions of SDRs)
Gross Credit Drawings
Compensatory          Oil         Regular         Trust                                                      Net             Undrawn Balance
Year/      and Buffer Stock    Facility    Stand-Bys          'Fund                       Repay-                          Credit              of Agreed
Quarter         Drawings          Drawings    and EFFs        Borrowing    Total/a         ments/b    Charges/c         Drawings/d        Stand-By or EFF/e
1973                                                                                                   0.8
1974                              40.4          29.9                         70.3                      2.2                70.3                  1.4
1975                              36.9        .21.9                          58.8         20.5         6.3                38.3                 62.5
1976             39.1             14.7          43.4                         97.2         33.0        11.6                64.2
1977                                                          13.4           13.4         41.4        12.8              -28.0
1978                                                          38.4           38.4         17.7        11.6                20.7
1979                                            57.0          37.9           94.9         63.0        10.7                31.9                 28.0
1980                                          142.0           32.0          174.0         69.7         9.8               104.3                686.0
I-II 1981                                        53.0           0.5           53.5         25.9        13.8                27.6                633.0
Projected:
III-IV 1981                                    137.0/f                       137.0/f        6.7         24.3
1982                                          267.0/f                       267.0/f        8.2         51.4
1983                                          229.0/f                       229.0/f        5.3        88.0
1984                                                                                      68.4         96.3
1985                                                                                      90.4         90.3
1986                                                                                     165.5        78.0
1987                                                                                     207.5        56.5
1988                                                                                     183.4        34.0
1989                                                                                     148.5        15.6
1990                                                                                      74.7          3.7
1991                                                                                      18.8          0.5
/a   Use of Fund Credit (regular stand-by drawings, EFF drawings, oil facility drawings, compensatory facility drawings, and buffer stock
drawings) plus Trust Fund borrowing.
/b   Repayments through Repurchase and Repayments of Trust Fund borrowing.
/c   Interest on Credit Drawings and on Trust Fund borrowing.
Id   Total Credit Drawings and Trust Fund Borrowings minus Repayments.
/f-  Undrasw: balance of stand-by or EFF agreement with statement of remaining period of agreement.
/f   Projected.                                                                                                                                                            C
Scurce:  TMU.                                                                                                                                                              H



