OFFICITAL      CREDIT NUMBER 1194 BD
,DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Tenth Imports Program)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    9SI                      , 1982


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated9'uM&&A el6i 1982, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BADC" means Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation, a corporate entity established under the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation Ordinance, 1961 (Ordinance
No. XXXVII of 1961), and includes any successor thereto;
(b) "MOF" means the Ministry of Food of the Borrower;
(c) "Policy Improvements" means the collective measures the
Borrower intends to take, including inter alia those set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to enhance the production and
distribution of foodgrain in the Borrower's territory; and
(d) "Tk" or "taka" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-2-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eighty-seven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 87,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Project is a part of the Borrower's program
(i) to make available foreign exchange to eligible importers for
the import, into the Borrower's territory, of raw materials, spare
parts, components, chemicals and packaging materials for various
high priority industries; finished and raw materials, spare parts,
chemicals and packaging materials for various agricultural inputs;
and construction materials all as necessary for the carrying out
of the Policy Improvements, (ii) to monitor the implementation of
the ongoing action programs for the jute, textile and pulp and
paper industries, (iii) to continue and consolidate ongoing export
development *programs, and (iv) to carry out the Policy Improve-
ments as more fully set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1992, and ending
August 1, 2031, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The authorized representatives of the Bangla-
desh Bank are designated as representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applica-
tions from the eligible importers issue, or cause
to be issued, such import licenses as shall be
required to carry out the Project;
(ii) make available, or cause to be made available
to the eligible importers promptly as needed,
such amounts of foreign exchange as shall be
required to import goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
(iii) take all such action as shall be necessary to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or
cause adequate provision to be made for the insurance thereof,


﻿-4-
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the purposes
described in Section 2.03 (i) hereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the program
(referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement) of which the
Project is a part, the cost of the Project and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(b) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, the benefits derived and to be derived
therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under this Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall deposit amounts in
taka equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Association
pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, in an account cur-
rently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank, which amounts
are to be described in accordance with standard practice, as
the proceeds from "IDA Credit No. 1194 BD".


﻿-5-
(b) The amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's development
programs.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 of each
calendar year, inform the Association of the local currency
provisions made in the Borrower's Annual Development Program
for the fiscal year which began on the preceding July 1, for
the development projects being financed by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall inform the Association on a quarterly
basis of the amounts of taka actually released for the projects
being financed by the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, the action
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the purpose of
carrying out the Policy Improvements.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has issued import licenses
in respect of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less
than $50,000,000 equivalent.
Section 4.02. The date 1QPAo4 32f /9A   is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tions 3.04 (c) and (d) and 3.06 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate or on a date 10 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the External
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditlens:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca
Bangladesh
Cable address:                   Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                      SETU BJ 65886
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64415 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-7-
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /     4 &/
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By (d
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported goods
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the maximum amount of the Credit which may be withdrawn in respect
of each such Category:
Maximum Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                   SDR Equivalent)
INDUSTRIES:
Raw materials, spare
parts, components,
chemicals and
packaging materials
for:
(1) Cotton textile industry                      21,840,000
(2) Pulp and Paper and board                      8,740,000
industries
(3) Export-oriented industries                    8,740,000
(excluding jute industry)
(4) Rolling and foundry industries               17,470,000
(5) Chemical and pharmaceutical                  17,470,000
industries
(6) Sugar Industry                                2,620,000
(7) Fertilizer industry                           8,740,000
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
(8) Cement and other inter-                      21,840,000
mediate building materials
(excluding clinker)


﻿-9-
Maximum Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  SDR Equivalent)
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS:
Finished and raw materials,
spare parts, chemicals,
components and
packaging materials
for:
(9)   Pesticides                                 3,490,000
(10) Fertilizers                                17,470,000
(11) Diesel fuel                                 8,740,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $6,000,000 may be made, in respect
of Category 10, on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date, but after November 1, 1981;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(d) expenditures under Categories 2 through 11 in excess of
the aggregate equivalent of $75,000,000; provided, however, that
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures under
Categories 2 through 6 and 8 in excess of the aggregate equivalent
of $60,000,000.
3.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 of this Schedule, contracts
for goods shall be let through international competitive bidding
under procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), subject to the modifications set forth in para-
graph 2 below.
2.   The Guidelines are hereby modified as follows:
(a) By the deletion of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines and
the substitution therefor of the following:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to bid.
This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, prequalify, or
bid, in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
Borrower's country and by at least one of the following
methods:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circu-
lation; or
(iii) notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) By the addition at the end of paragraph 2.9 of the
Guidelines of the following:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidde, to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 11 -
(c) By the deletion of sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) of para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines and the substitution for sub-
paragraph (a) of the following:
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the successful
bid."
(d) By the deletion of the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
3.8 of the Guidelines and the substitution therefor of the fol-
lowing:
"Customs duties and import.taxes should be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of goods."
(e) By the deletion of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
3.   Whenever the Borrower and the Association shall be satisfied
that goods of. a specific type, design or manufacture shall be
required in the interest of equipment standardization or of other
valid considerations relating to the efficient utilization of
existing productive capacity, such goods may be procured on a
negotiated basis on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. In addition, contracts or purchase orders for goods
(other than proprietary items to be financed under Categories 5
and 9 of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $500,000 each may be awarded
on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser
of such goods, up to an aggregate amount of $10,000,000.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect


﻿- 12 -
thereof, any relevant documentation and information the Associa-
tion may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications
thereunder.
6.   The Association shall, if it determines that the award of a
contract or documentation received was not consistent with this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Policy Improvements
A.   General
1.   Policy Improvements under the Credit concern the alloca-
tion of resources to agricultural development, particularly to the
development of foodgrain production, encouragement of the private
sector's role in the supply of irrigation equipment and in the
trading of foodgrains, expansion of foodgrain storage, improvement
of food policy coordination and strengthening of agricultural
planning.
2.   Dates by which actions are required to be taken pursuant
to this Schedule may be extended by notice from the Association to
the Borrower.
B.   Action to be taken
1.   The Borrower shall cause BADC to offer for sale to the
private sector the present stock of used low lift pumps and deep
tubewells held by BADC as of July 1, 1981. The stock shall be sold
to the private sector under a phased program which will ensure
that the entire stock is sold prior to June 30, 1984. To that
effect the Borrower shall, prior to the end of fiscal years 1982
and 1983, review in consultation with the Association the prog-
ress of such sale and, after each such review, take corrective
measures, if warranted, to remove constraints, if any, and ensure
sale or disposal of the entire stock within the time frame
established.
2.   The Borrower through BADC shall sell to the private
sector all minor irrigation equipment procured after June 30,
1981, unless such sale contravenes the provisions of a specially
concluded foreign economic assistance agreement under which
such equipment has been imported. No minor irrigation equipment
procured after June 30, 1981 shall be used in rental programs
unless the provisions of such specially concluded foreign economic
assistance agreement provide otherwise.
3.   The Borrower shall, or shall cause BADC to, not later
than June 30, 1982, set prices for the sale of new shallow tube-
wells at levels which will ensure full coverage of all costs


﻿- 14 -
incurred by BADC in the procurement and marketing thereof, in-
cluding the cost of duties and taxes and adequate distribution and
profit margins.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   &26       day of         ,
198.
FOR SECRETARY


