Document of
The World Bank                                  5;E3
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2523a-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$20.0 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS I/
US$1.00                                  Birr 2.07
Birr                                     US$0.483
Birr 1 million                           US$483,000
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF                     African Development Fund
AAWASA                  Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
AIDB                    Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
CA                      Addis Ababa Central Association
CFF                     Compensatory Financing Facility
EEC                     European Economic Community
EELPA                   Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
HASIDA                  Handicraft and Small Industry Development Agency
SIDA                    Swedish International Development Agency
UNDP                    United Nations Development Program
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                                            3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilogram (kg)                                    2.205 pounds (lb)
1 frescula (fr)                                    17 kg
100 kilograms (kg)                                 1 quintal (qt)
1 metric ton (mt)                                  2.205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                                     2.4711 acres (ac)
1 hectare (ha)                                     10,000 square meters (m2)
1 kilometer (km)                                   0.62 miles (mi)
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
l/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian Birr
has been constant from 1974 to the date of this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Ethiopia
Amount:             SDR 18.0 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:      Housing and Savings Bank, and Addis Ababa Central
Association (CA)
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   The Government will relend about US$ 7.9 million of the
proceeds of the credit to the Housing Bank, and about
US$4.1 million to the CA, at 8 percent interest per
annum with a repayment period of 25 years including five
years' grace. In addition, the Government will make
available about US$4.0 million of the IDA credit to the
Housing Bank on a grant basis in order to strengthen the
Housing Bank's capitalization. The Housing Bank will
on-lend the proceeds of the credit to ultimate
beneficiaries at an effective interest rate of not less
than 11 percent annually. Repayment periods are
expected to average about 20 years.
Project
Description:        The proposed project will assist the Government to
broaden and strengthen its land development, servicing
and maintenance systems, and to rebuild the volume of
investment in shelter, primarily in Addis Ababa. In
particular, it will:(i) launch a more resource-efficient
housing construction system based on modest standards,
self-help and private initiative; (ii) improve health
and environmental conditions; (iii) strengthen key urban
development and financial institutions; and (iv) improve
policies and practices relating to maintenance of urban
infrastructure and housing. The project will upgrade
existing settlements in Addis Ababa containing about
9,000 households by providing basic services and
construction loans, and will also develop about 3,000
new plots for self-help housing construction and
community facilities, including about 650 plots for
small-scale commercial/industrial use. Technical
assistance will be provided to assist small-scale
building materials enterprises, and credit would be made
available to these enterprises under the recently
approved Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
Project (Cr. 1275-ET). An estimated 16,000 households
will benefit from the project, of which about 74 percent
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
are expected to have incomes below Ethiopia's urban
poverty threshold. The key risks that could affect the
project's progress include possible constraints in the
implementing agencies, and possible shortages of
building materials. Steps have been taken to minimize
these risks by providing technical assistance and
training, and by keeping building design standards
simple.
Estimated Costs:
US$ Million
Local         Foreign         Total
Items
Site Development and Servicing           1.2            2.3            3.5
Construction Loans                      10.8            1.9           12.7
Community Development                    1.1            0.2            1.3
Project Management                       2.0            0.5            2.5
Training                                  --            0.3            0.3
Advisory Services                        0.1            0.2            0.3
Studies                                   --            0.6            0.6
Contingencies
Physical                             0.3            0.2            0.5
Price                                4.7            1.3            6.0
Total Project Cost                      20.2            7.5           27.7
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes and duties)              19.3             7.5          26.8
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
Ethiopia                                6.8          --        6.8
IDA                                   12.5          7.5       20.0
Total                                  19.3          7.5      26.8
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IDA(FY)  83      84    85      86    87    88    89
Annual                              0.3    1.1   4.8    6.3   4.0   2.6   0.9
Cumulative                          0.3    1.4   6.2   12.5  16.5  19.1  20.0
Estimated Rate of Return:    About 24 percent (for 90 percent of project
costs).
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No.2331a-ET, dated November 1, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 18.0 million (US$20.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an urban development
project. The Borrower will relend about US$7.9 million of the IDA credit
to the Housing and Savings Bank, and about US$4.1 million to the Addis
Ababa Central Association, at 8 percent interest per annum with a repayment
period of 25 years including five years' grace. The Borrower will also
make available about US$4.0 million of the credit to the Housing and
Savings Bank on a grant basis in order to strengthen the Housing Bank's
capitalization (para. 62).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in May 1981 and its
report (No. 3552b-ET, Economic Memorandum on Ethiopia) was circulated to
the Executive Directors on December 15, 1981. Its findings are reflected
in the following paragraphs. A summary of social and economic data is
included in Annex I.
Government Structure and Objectives
3.        Since the revolution in 1974, Ethiopia has been ruled by a
Military Administrative Council. A Central Planning Supreme Council,
chaired by the Head of State, and on which government ministers, peasant
associations, urban dwellers and trade unions are represented, is
responsible for the preparation, approval, and oversight of economic plans
and policies. In parallel with this body, a Council of Ministers is
responsible for implementation. The Government's general objectives
emphasize raising the living standard of all Ethiopians, especially the
poor, through central planning and control of the major industries, the
financial system and foreign trade, and through the mobilization of the
mass of the people to increase production. Emphasis is being given to the
provision of tree and more widespread education, improved health services
and greater employment opportunities.
Economic and Social Reforms
4.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have been introduced in
line with the goals set out above. Of most direct importance to the
majority of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, under which all rural land
was made the "collective property of the Ethiopian people" and user rights



- 2 -
of up to ten hectares were allocated to former tenants and to others
personally willing to cultivate the land. Former commercial farms were
either handed over to peasants for individual or collective cultivation, or
retained as state farms. However, state farms account for less than four
percent of cultivated area. By 1979, about 25,000 peasant associations
with seven million members had been formed throughout the secure rural
areas. These associations decide on limited security and judicial matters
and are responsible for land redistribution and the establishment and
management of marketing and producers cooperatives. Representative
associations have been established at wereda, awraja and regional
levels.1/ Few producers cooperatives have been established so far since
the Government has been proceeding cautiously, and wishes compliance to be
voluntary.
5.        In the urban sector all land was nationalized in 1975, and
ownership of houses restricted to one per family with extra houses
nationalized. Urban dwellers associations (kebeles) have been established
to parallel the peasant associations and have been delegated similar
powers. Most large enterprises in the modern sector, including some owned
by Ethiopians, were nationalized during 1975, and are now subject to
centralized policy guidance and investment approval. Under legislation
introduced in 1979, a large part of public enterprise profits are also
reallocated centrally. The banks and financial institutions now function
as subsidiaries of the National Bank of Ethiopia. The private sector
retains a role in the Ethiopian economy, notably in construction, peasant
agriculture, trade and small-scale manufacturing. Cooperative enterprises
are being encouraged in all sectors where private ownership is dominant.
Economic Background
6.        The reforms took place against a background of desperate poverty
and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per capita GNP of
about US$140 in 1980, is one of the least developed countries in the
world. The population, estimated at about 31.5 million in 1980, and
growing at about 2.5 percent annually, is predominantly rural (over 85
percent). The literacy rate in Ethiopia has risen in recent years
primarily as a result of a literacy drive, but some 85 percent of the adult
population remain illiterate. There is one physician for about every
75,000 people and only about 38 percent of the children of primary school
age are enrolled. About two percent of the rural population and a third of
the urban population have reasonable access to a safe water supply. In
many parts of the country soils have become seriously depleted as
population pressure has forced people to cultivate ecologically unsuitable
land. As a result, many such areas have faced periodic drought and food
shortages, the severity of which has been increasing over time. The lack
of transport is such that only one quarter of the population is within one
day's round trip on foot from an all-weather road. This low level of
development itself leads to low savings,investment and growth.
7.        Ethiopia's natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and
potash; there has been considerable petroleum exploration in the past.
1/ Ethiopia is divided administratively into 15 regions (including Addis
Ababa), 102 awrajas (provinces), and 586 weredas (districts).



However, none of these minerals has been exploited on a large scale. There
are prospects for the exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's
main potential lies in agriculture, for which the natural conditions of
many areas are favorable. At present, around 50 percent of GDP originates
in agriculture, and most industry is also agriculture-based. Compared with
other countries at similar stages of development, Ethiopia has a relatively
skilled and trained work force, but manpower shortages remain a constraint
on development.
Economic Developments up to 1978
8.         From fiscal year 1973/74 to 1978/79, GDP grew at less than 0.5
percent per annum in real terms. This low growth rate reflected security
problems, the uncertainties, dislocations and resistance which accompanied
the economic reforms, and the ensuing difficulties in internal marketing
and distribution. The turmoil in Eritrea and the Ogaden during 1977/78
caused the destruction of facilities, the dislocation of transport and
communications and the diversion of resources from economic development.
Although agricultural production was maintained, the structure of
production shifted away from export crops towards food grains, and marketed
production probably declined. In the industrial sector, the closure of
factories in Eritrea, which formerly accounted for about one-third of
industrial production, caused a fall in output. Production was also
constrained by shortages of raw materials and spare parts, machinery
breakdowns, high managerial turnover, labor disputes and negligible new
investment. Construction activity declined. Inflation was rapid, with
consumer prices rising at an average rate of 20 percent per annum through
the three years ending mid-1978.
9.        These difficulties were also reflected in Ethiopia's external
transactions. Export earnings from coffee were maintained in spite of a
decline in volume largely because of the price boom in 1976/77. However,
the value of other exports declined, with the result that coffee accounted
for three-quarters of total export earnings in 1977/78. Imports on the
other hand grew rapidly, at about 21 percent per annum in value terms since
1973/74. However, much of this increase was attributable to drought relief
and other unspecified items, probably including military imports. The
resulting deterioration in the resource balance was financed up to and
including 1976/77 by external assistance, either in the form of transfers
or of net inflows of public capital. In 1977/78, the capital inflow was
reduced, and the deficit was financed largely by heavy recourse to foreign
exchange reserves, which were drawn down from the equivalent of one year's
supply of imports to about five months.
10.       The role of the central Government and the public sector
increased significantly. Central Government expenditure, which averaged 12
percent of GDP in the early seventies, reached 22 percent of GDP in
1977/78. At the same time, the Government was forced to increase its
reliance on domestic borrowing. The growth in recurrent expenditure was
largely attributable to military needs, which reached 66 percent of total
recurrent outlays in 1977/78. Other current spending was kept under strict
control. Central Government capital spending increased steadily (except in
1977/78, the year of the emergency (para. 8)), with road construction and
agriculture as the main areas of emphasis. In addition, a large part of



the increase in bank credit to the non-central Government sector was
accounted for by public enterprises (especially the state farms).
11.       Modern public sector employment expanded, although comprehensive
information on this is not available. With the shortage of grain in urban
areas and the resulting rise in grain prices, it appears likely that the
rural-urban terms of trade improved and that, as a result, the income of
peasant farmers increased.  Correspondingly, urban real wages probably
fell. While the salaries of approximately the top ten percent of public
sector employees were frozen, the Government permitted the wages of lower
paid workers to rise.
The Economic Campaigns
12.       Thus, by mid-1978, a number of serious economic problems had
emerged or intensified. It was against this background that, in September
1978, the Government introduced the first "economic campaign" with the
objectives of: (i) reducing the current food shortages by intensifying
efforts in the organizations dealing with the peasant sector, and by
doubling state farm area; (ii) helping drought-affected highland areas by
strengthening afforestation, rehabilitation and resettlement programs;
(iii) eliminating current shortages of consumer items and certain
construction materials; (iv) improving the efficiency of government
agencies and businesses; and (v) increasing foreign exchange availability
by promoting exports. Physical production targets for each of the key
sectors were to be achieved partly by the reallocation of resources, and
partly by improved discipline and efficiency in the organizations
concerned.
13.       The economic campaigns clearly recognized the priority of the
productive sectors, at least in the short run, and the need to improve
discipline in public sector organizations. The first campaign ran for one
year, ending June 1979 (para. 18). This was followed by two further
campaigns in the fiscal years 1979/80 and 1980/81. The Government is now
considering the ways and means to integrate such campaigns or action
programs into a more comprehensive multi-year planning process. A ten-year
perspective plan is being prepared to serve as the frame of reference for
the development of a three-year medium term investment plan with specific
targets, sectoral plans and project proposals.
Recent Economic Developments
14.       Since the recovery in 1978/79, economic performance in Ethiopia
has been encouraging. During the three year period ending in fiscal year
1980/81, real GDP growth has averaged nearly five percent per year.
However, the growth rate fell to about 3.3 percent during 1980/81 mainly
due to the drought which affected agriculture, exhaustion of existing idle
capacity in industry and inadequate investment in general. Agriculture,
which accounts for half of GDP, grew less than 2.5 percent during 1980/81
as compared with almost 4.8 percent during the previous year.
Manufacturing industry grew by about 5.5 percent during 1980/81 as against
10.5 percent during the previous year. Although investment has been rising
slowly during the recent past, it was still at a low level of about 10
percent of GDP during 1980/81. Domestic savings have averaged about four
percent of GDP over the three year period ending in 1980/81.



- 5-
15.       On Ethiopia's external account, the current account deficit which had
been held at around US$190 million during the fiscal years 1978/79 and 1979/80,
deteriorated to US$242 million (about 5.7 percent of GDP) during 1980/81. This
was entirely due to a drop in export earnings resulting from a decline in the
export price index by about 19 percent. Imports have been kept under control
and their value declined slightly during 1980/81. If not for a 10 percent
increase in coffee exports during 1980/81, the deficit could have been higher.
These successive deficits coupled with inadequate external resource transfers
has led to a sharp decline in Ethiopia's international reserves. As of the end
of fiscal year 1980/81, the Government had to draw down its international
reserves to a net level of about US$120 million, sufficient to finance only two
months of imports. The debt service ratio worsened from a level of about 5.3
percent of export earnings in 1979/80 to about 6.2 percent in 1980/81 as
repayments increased and export earnings fell.
16.       The Government's budget went through some notable developments over
the three year period ending 1980/81. Domestic revenue as a proportion of GDP
rose from about 17 percent in 1978/79 to about 20 percent in 1980/81, while
recurrent expenditure rose from about 16 percent of GDP in 1978/79 to about 19
percent in 1980/81. Thus, the recurrent account surplus amounted to nearly one
percent of GDP in 1980/81. The increase in domestic revenue is mainly
attributable to higher contributions from public enterprises. Meanwhile,
capital expenditure rose from a level of about US$161 million equivalent in
1978/79 to about US$212 million equivalent (5 percent of GDP) in 1980/81. The
overall deficit thus increased from a level of about three percent of GDP in
1978/79 to about four percent in 1980/81.
17.       The expansion in money supply has been contained at moderate levels
since 1978/79, as the National Bank of Ethiopia reduced the rate of domestic
credit expansion and began to monitor the allocation of credit to priority
sectors. Over the three year period ending in 1980/81, the expansion in money
and quasi-money has averaged about seven percent per year, but in 1980/81 the
money supply declined by about one percent. Control over money supply together
with other factors such as the increase in the production of essential consumer
goods and the return to normalcy in internal transport has led to a significant
reduction in the rate of domestic inflation in the recent past. The rate of
inflation as measured by the Addis Ababa retail price index declined from about
13 percent in 1978/79 to about 12.5 percent in 1979/80 and 7 percent in 1980/81.
18.       The economic revival can be attributed to various factors.  First, the
return of comparative peace and security in late 1978 permitted the reallocation
of resources, particularly transport, to normal economic activity. Secondly,
several industries in Eritrea were reopened and resupplied. Thirdly, there were
good harvest years in the main grain-producing areas. Finally, the Government's
economic campaigns had a discernible effect in at least two directions; in
giving clear indications of priorities and allocating resources accordingly, and
in greatly improving discipline and management in many of the public sector
enterprises.



- 6 -
19.       It will not be easy to sustain this expansion.  First,
international economic conditions are unfavorable and the terms of trade
are expected to continue to deteriorate at least in the short-to-medium-
term particularly because of low prices for coffee -- Ethiopia's principal
export. Secondly, the low level of investment during the past few years is
now beginning to constrain further increases in domestic production. The
rapid production increases of the past two years have been largely
attributable to improved utilization of existing capacity. Thirdly,
external assistance commitments are not rising fast enough to support
significant increases in investment or sustain higher import levels (para.
22).
Government Programs
20.       Since 1974, the Government has launched a number of programs
and projects, some of which had been under preparation before the
revolution and then subsequently reoriented to the needs of the poor,
especially in rural areas. In agriculture, the thrust has been to develop
smallholder agriculture, rehabilitate drought-affected areas, and to
develop export and industrial crops. In the manufacturing sector,
increased emphasis has been given to small-scale, cottage and handicraft
industries, and to the production of mass consumer goods. Road
construction has expanded and shifted in emphasis towards rural roads.  A
frame plan for education covering the period 1976 to 1989 is being
implemented and emphasizes primary and non-formal eduation with increased
cultural, economic and social relevance. Enrollments at all levels have
been increasing more rapidly than before, especially in those rural areas
which were relatively under-provided with facilities. Rural health and
water supply programs are being expanded, and the Government has been
preparing programs to improve urban housing and services, especially for
low-income groups. In mid-1979, the Government launched a nationwide
literacy campaign. Not least, the Government has improved and expanded its
relief operations.
21.       The formation and mobilization of so many peasant associations
and kebeles over a short period (paras. 4 and 5) is a less tangible
achievement but one which may be of great long-run significance. These
organizations provide a basis upon which the Government can build and
accelerate its development effort, with emphasis on the poorest social
groups. It is true that the peasant associations and kebeles will need
additional support to enable them to carry out some of their tasks, such as
land redistribution, the establishment of cooperative farms and trading
activity. Nevertheless, some of their potential is already being realized;
they are playing a significant role in the construction of primary schools,



training centers, clinics, and rural roads, in reafforestation and
conservation activity, and in the organization of literacy campaigns and
other self-help projects.
External Assistance
22.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no traditional
source of technical and financial assistance. Perhaps mainly because of
this, the level of capital inflows to Ethiopia in recent years has been
very low. In 1979, for example, disbursements of net official development
assistance to Ethiopia amounted to less than US$6 equivalent per capita,
compared with receipts of over US$20 per capita for low income countries
taken together. Ethiopia, however, is in need of substantial resource
transfers to support investments that will enable a reasonable rate of
growth to be achieved, particularly in view of the country's poverty, low
level of savings and weak balance of payments position. Local cost
financing should therefore be at a high level. Within the limits imposed
by its perceived security needs over the past few years, the Government has
directed available resources towards economic and social development
(paras. 10 and 20); it has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of
non-essentials and increased taxes significantly to contribute to security
and developmental needs.
23.       Excluding military debt service, for which no information is
available, the ratio of Ethiopia's debt service to export earnings has
remained low (about six percent in 1980/81) because of the relatively low
level of external loan commitments in recent years, and the tendency of
some donors to shift to support on grant terms. Total debt outstanding and
disbursed was about US$831 million at December 31, 1981. The Bank Group
was for some years the largest source of loans and credits, but in recent
years, the European Economic Community, the African Development Bank, the
Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic and Czechoslovakia have
expanded their support, and development assistance is continuing from
Sweden, the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy. U.S. Exim-bank made a
loan in 1979 for aircraft purchases. The IMF has provided Trust Fund loans
and assistance under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF). By July
1982, Ethiopia-s net borrowings under the Trust Fund stood at about SDR26.4
million equivalent and drawings under the CFF stood at about SDR54.0
million. In May 1981, a stand-by arrangement for Ethiopia in an amount
equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved by the IMF to support an
18-month program ending in June 1982 that was designed to sustain a
reasonable rate of economic growth, strengthen overall fiscal performance
and help improve the balance of payments in the medium-term. The standby
was fully disbursed and all the performance criteria met. In addition,
Italy, Finland, Sweden and Japan have concluded debt forgiveness
arrangements with Ethiopia.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
24.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$571
million (less cancellations) as of September 30, 1982, consisting of 27 IDA
credits totalling about US$447 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and
1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to an interruption in new



- 8 -
lending (para. 30). Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms only.
From 1973 to 1977, IBRD's and IDA's combined share of gross disbursements
of public medium- and long-term loans increased from 24.1 percent to 67.3
percent. However, these data tend to exaggerate somewhat the dependence on
the Bank, since they exclude the growing tendency of other donors to give
capital assistance on grant terms. IBRD's share of total public debt
outstanding and disbursed as of December 1981 has been estimated at about 6
percent, and IDA's at 33 percent. Their shares of total debt service in
1981 have been estimated at about 13 percent and 4 percent, respectively.
25.       Bank lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power
and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, when its emphasis
shifted to agriculture and education. In the past seven years, seven
credits totalling US$147 million have supported agricultural production and
marketing. The most recent one (Cr.1088-ET) is assisting the agricultural
minimum package program, which represents the core of the Government's
development plans for peasant agriculture. In addition, the last three
credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting agricultural needs.
Since 1973, three credits totalling US$68 million have supported
educational development.
26.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally satisfactory. Security problems affected the
Lower Adiabo Project (Cr. 556), the Rangelands Project (Cr. 603), and the
Drought Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 485). The Lower Adiabo Project made no
progress, and therefore the credit was closed. The latter two, however,
have made reasonable progress.  Projects sometimes suffer from management
problems, but those in the highways and education sectors particularly
continue to have strong management. Financial problems have also occurred,
but have been remedied in most cases. In addition, the economic and social
reforms introduced since 1974 (para. 4) necessitated changes in a number of
projects and, together with management and staffing constraints, have
caused implementation delays and postponement of closing dates. Such
changes hindered progress on the Second Livestock Project (Cr. 365), and
the credit was closed. However, the changes have sometimes had beneficial
impacts on the projects in question; for example, the scope of the Coffee
Processing Project (290-ET) was widened to include existing coffee washing
stations taken over under the land reform.
27.       General problems, such as rising labor costs and occasional
shortages of construction materials, have also detracted from efficient
project implementation. However, our experience has been that the
Government and the project managements have often been successful in
efforts to overcome these problems. Ethiopia's overall record on project
implementation is about average for the Eastern Africa Region and has been
improving in recent years. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA
credits, and IFC investments, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
28.       Ethiopia-s disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of
disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia is higher than the Bank-wide



average and the average for the Eastern Africa Region, and has been
increasing in recent years. This trend, however, is largely due to the
interruption in new IDA lending to Ethiopia caused by the compensation
issue, and cannot be attributed to improved performance.
29.        We propose to continue our support for the Government's growth
and equity-oriented objectives and focus particularly on projects which
increase productive capacity in agriculture and industry or provide
essential infrastructure. A second coffee processing and marketing project
that will help to increase Ethiopia's foreign exchange earnings and raise
the incomes of smallholder coffee growers by improving the quality of
coffee produced, has been appraised. A second road sector credit designed
to help strengthen Ethiopia's transport infrastructure has also been
appraised. A sugar plantation and factory project is being prepared in
order to help meet the large unsatisfied demand for this basic consumer
good and to reduce the need for imports, and a third power project is being
prepared to help develop domestic energy resources to meet the needs of
Ethiopia's growing economy.
Compensation
30.        In early 1975, the Government nationalized enterprises, either
partly or wholly, in which it deemed government ownership or control to be
in the public interest. When doing so, the Government stated that fair
compensation would be paid to former owners. To implement this policy, it
established a Compensation Commission in early 1976 to receive and review
claims, and to negotiate and reach agreement with former owners, but much
time passed with little evident progress being made. Because of this, no
new lending proposals for Ethiopia were presented to the Board between
April 1978 and December 1980, when a concrete beginning to resolve the
issue was made. Since then, significant progress has been made. IFC has
negotiated a share-purchase agreement with the Ethiopian Government in
respect of its shares in the Metahara Sugar Company and the Textile Mills
of Dire Dawa. The agreement has been distributed to IFC's Executive
Directors for consideration at a Board meeting in December 1982. IFC's
partner in Metahara, a Dutch firm which had a large claim, has recently
agreed on a settlement with the Compensation Commission. IFC's major
partner in the Textile Mills, a Japanese company, is currently negotiating
a settlement offer from the Commission. The Commission has also entered
into negotiations with a number of other claimants. It has reached
settlements with a major American claimant, three German claimants, and two
small Japanese and American claimants. In addition, the Ethiopian
Government has reached an agreement in principle with the Italian
Government on an arrangement to settle all Italian claims.
PART III. THE URBAN SECTOR
31.         Ethiopia's urban sector is comparatively small, comprising about
12 percent of the total population. Over 40 percent of the urban populace
live in the two largest cities, Addis Ababa (population 1.3 million) and
Asmara (370,000). About 180 other towns have populations ranging from
2,000 to 80,000.  Most of these are market towns located in the more



- 10 -
fertile regions, functioning primarily as collection points for
agricultural trade, and having few secondary sector activities.
3J.        The Government is strongly committed to improving the living
conditions of the vast majority of urban dwellers who remain severely
impoverished. Since the revolution in 1974, social and economic
relationships have been fundamentally reordered. Land reform has been
particularly rapid and dramatic. In 1975, all urban land and "extra"
(rented) houses (nearly two-thirds of the total) were nationalized.
individual families continue to own their own dwellings and related land
use rights, but rents of poorer families have generally been halved, and
previous landlords are being paid compensation for their former
properties. Although maintenance responsibilities have been shifted onto
the public sector, causing some new problems, access to vacant land for
house construction has greatly improved.
33.       The Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (the Ministry) has
overall responsibility for town planning, urban land administration, design
and supervision of various public works projects, and supervision of urban
dwellers' associations, formerly the municipalities. The urban dwellers'
associations have been established to help decentralize decision-making and
increase local participation in development. They have a three-tiered
hierarchy; the lowest is the 'kebele', each of which contains between 500
and 1,000 households. So far, about 2,000 have been established throughout
the country, of which about 290 are in Addis Ababa. The kebeles are
responsible for constructing and operating schools, community centers,
small rental housing, shops and small scale industries. Rents constitute
the major source of kebele income, which is supplemented by profits from
shops and small industries. The kebele elects a 15 member policy committee
which, in turn, establishes four other bodies: an executive committee
responsible for rent collection, compensation, schools and shops; a public
safety committee; a financial inspection committee; and a judicial
tribunal. From the body of elected kebele officials, Higher Associations
are formed to coordinate the development activities of kebeles in their
jurisdiction, determine the use and distribution of funds, and act as an
appeal body for disputes among kebeles or against lower judicial
decisions. At the top of the organizational structure are the Central
Associations to which key officials are elected from the Higher
Associations. The Central Associations are responsible for urban
transport, fire, ambulance, and refuse services, and maintenance of major
municipal facilities such as parks, markets, cemeteries and theaters.
34.       Urban credit institutions have been restructured to streamline
operations, eliminate areas of overlap, and redirect benefits to
lower-income people.  In 1975, the Housing and Savings Bank (the Housing
Bank) was established by an amalgamation of two former savings and
mortgage institutions and given exclusive responsibility for mortgage
lending.  Its lending requirements have been relaxed in order to reach
people at low income levels and it is being expanded through the creation
of new branch offices. The Handicraft and Small Industry Development
Agency (HASIDA) has been established to register and provide technical
assistance to small productive enterprises, and the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) instructed to lend to small businesses.



- 11 -
35.       Although the policies of these institutions have been refocussed
to serve lower income groups, actual performance lags. The Housing Bank's
lending to the poorer half of the population is still insignificant, and
AIDB and HASIDA have shown only little progress in this direction. The
Ministry has also been concentrating its efforts on constructing a small
number of villas, apartments and cooperative houses costing an estimated
US$4,800 to US$14,500 equivalent, which are affordable only to the top 10
to 15 percent of the population. Recently, however, with assistance from
the European Economic Community (EEC), the Ministry has started to
implement a serviced site project in four smaller cities.
The Capital of Addis Ababa
36.       Addis Ababa was established by Emperor Menelik II in 1891 as a
garrison town occupying a strategic position in the newly acquired southern
provinces of the then-expanding Abyssinian empire. Its location proved a
good one for a modern capital -- centrally positioned in the newly expanded
greater Ethiopia, with abundant water and timber. Centralization of
political and administrative functions requiring transport links focussed
on Addis, and the gradual development of industry and educational and
health services served to promote rapid population growth. By the
mid-1930s the city had a population of over 100,000, and nearly half a
million by the mid-1950s. Today Addis Ababa, with about 4 percent of
Ethiopia's population, and growing at about 6.5 percent annually, is the
largest city in the eastern half of Africa between Cairo and Johannesburg.
37.       Addis is distinctive in many respects.  First, segregation by
income, social status, ethnic group, or race, so common in
colonially-founded African cities, did not occur. Rich and poor have
traditionally lived next to one another in an integrated land use pattern.
Secondly, because landowners exercised close control over their territory,
squatter communities in the usual sense of illegal landholding never
developed. All households holding land have some form of tenure.
Thirdly, nearly two-thirds of households rent, probably because until
recently land ownership was dominated by a small minority, while the
majority lived in abject poverty.
36.       Despite progress in establishing appropriate institutions, an
urban housing shortage exists in Addis at all income levels, especially
among the poor. Formal sector house construction was brought to a virtual
standstill during 19/4 and 19/5, and informal sector construction also
diminished sharply. New building is meeting only about 15 to 20 percent of
the demand created by annual household growth alone -- about 7,500 per
annum -- and existing housing conditions throughout the city need
improvement. Large areas are unplanned and densely populated, averaging
400 people per hectare. Maintenance is poor and most dwellings are badly
deteriorated.
39.       Bottlenecks in the production and transport of certain building
materials exacerbated both the problem of new construction and maintenance
during the years immediately following the revolution. Since 1978,
however, production levels have risen significantly and are now reaching
full capacity. The availability of cement, for instance, has eased, and a
new factory is being constructed that is expected to double existing
capacity by 1986. The transport situation has already improved



- i1) -
significantly. Traditional building materials, however, have become
increasingly scarce as a result of a decline in replanting programs
immediately following the revolution.
40.       Severe deficiencies also exist in urban services.  Sanitation is
perhaps the city's most critical problem -- over half of the households in
Addis lack toilet facilities, either private or shared. Inadequate refuse
collection, particularly in low-income areas, exacerbates the problem.
Municipal refuse vehicles, which service only about 70 percent of
households, suffer from poor maintenance. All but 9 percent of Addis
households have access to piped water, but several hundred families
normally share a standpipe in low-income areas. The piped water supply,
however, is of low quality in many areas because of high leakage and poor
sanitation. Roads in low-income residential areas are often in poor
repair. Serious erosion is evident in many places and the prevalence of
poor soils in Addis leads to relatively high road construction and
maintenance costs.
41.       The vast majority of urban dwellers, who have been denied access
to land and credit, have remained exceedingly poor. Roughly three quarters
of Addis households, or about 190,000 families, have incomes below the
urban poverty threshold of about US$190 per capita per annum (1981), the
level at which an average family can just afford a calorie-adequate diet.
Nearly all of this group lack adequate shelter and services. About 50
percent of the adult population is illiterate, and only half of school age
children attend school. Nearly 40 percent of the deaths in Addis are
attributable to diseases of a parasitic or digestive nature--diseases
indicative of inadequate services and poverty.
PART IV -- THE PROJECT
42.       A report entitled, "Ethiopia - Urban Development Project; Staff
Appraisal Report", No. 2331a-ET, dated November 1, 1982, is being
distributed separately.
43.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ethiopian Government
with the assistance of Bank Group staff. The project was first appraised
in October 1978, but processing of the credit was delayed for about three
years pending progress on the compensation issue (para. 30). Further
updating work was carried out in September/October 1981 and negotiations
were held in Washington from April 26 to 30, 1982. The Ethiopian
delegation was led by Woizero Desta Bishaw, Permanent Secretary, Ministry
of Finance, and included Ato Getachew Yifru, General Manager, Housing and
Savings Bank. Ato Tesfaye Maru, Minister of Urban Development and Housing,
also participated in some of the discussions.
Objectives and Project Description
44.       The proposed project will assist the Government to broaden and
strengthen its land development, servicing, and maintenance systems and to
rebuild the volume of investment in shelter, primarily in Addis Ababa. In
particular, it will: (i) launch a more resource-efficient housing



- 13 -
construction system based on modest standards, self-help and private
initiative in order to ease the burden on public finances; (ii) improve
health and environmental conditions; (iii) strengthen key urban development
and financial institutions; and (iv) improve policies and practices
relating to maintenance of urban infrastructure and housing. Serviced
sites will be developed in Addis Ababa for self-help dwelling construction
that will be affordable to families with incomes in the upper third of the
population, and existing sites will be upgraded that will be affordable to
over 90 percent of the population. The project represents the Government's
first major shelter construction program since 1974, and will introduce the
concepts of progressive development and upgrading.
45.       The proposed project includes:
(a) Site Development and Servicing
(i) Upgrading
Basic services will be improved for about 8,200 households (about
one-half of the total) in Tekle Haimanot, a centrally located
and highly congested area of the city, and for about 800
households in Nefas Silk, an area near a main industrial zone.
major roads will be resurfaced. Secondary roads will be left
unsurfaced but will be given a suitable base and improved storm
drainage. Water supply standards will be increased from the
present 600 households per standpipe to about 100. Loans for pit
latrines will also be made available. No improvements to power
distribution will be made, since electricity is already readily
available in these areas. Little resettlement will be required.
(ii) Serviced Residential Site
One new site containing about 2,700 plots will be
developed in Nefas Silk. About 1900 of the plots will
be about 160 m2 in size, with the remainder in sizes up
to 250 m2 in order to achieve a balanced community of
mixed-income families. The site will be serviced with
unsurfaced roads, storm drainage, communal water
standpipes (one for every 44 households), refuse v
collection points, security lighting, and optional
individual electricity.  Pit latrines will be financed
separately out of construction loans by families on an
individual or shared basis.
(iii) Commercial and Industrial Plots
About 650 plots in the Nefas Silk area will be developed for
potential commercial or small industrial use. About
400 of these will be dual-use plots inonpoverty group
residential/business) of about 250 ms in size that will
be fully integrated into the residential site and included in the
2,700 plots to be developed there.  In  addition, about 250 plots



- 14 -
of varying sizes up to 1,000 m2 will be developed within
specific industrial zones.   These will be serviced to the same
standards as other plots but will be positioned to enable access
to individual water and electrical connections.
(iv) Refuse and Road Maintenance
Refuse collection vehicles will be purchased to
supplement the Addis Ababa Central Association's present fleet
and funds will be provided for general repairs to roads in Addis
Ababa.
(b) Construction Loans
A loan fund of about US$16.5 million equivalent will be made available
through the Housing and Savings Bank for optional mortgage loans to
housing cooperatives, kebeles and individuals for homes, services and
pit latrines. All dwellings will be constructed through self-help or
small informal contractors arranged by participants. The Ministry
will provide technical assistance. Participants will be able to build
dwellings in a range of sizes and materials commensurate with their
repayment capacity (Section 3.03, draft Development Credit
Agreement). Most dwellings are expected to be constructed with chicka
(mud), but participants will be encouraged to try mud-brick
construction techniques which are cheaper but require more complex
masonry skills. Loan amounts will typically range from about US$725
in the upgrading area, to about US$1,100 to US$1,700 equivalent for
expandable one or two room dwellings to be constructed on serviced
residential plots by the poorer 75 percent of participants, and up to
US$5,800 for dwellings to be built by those in the upper income
levels. Included in the loan funds will be a pilot fund of about
US$2.5 million equivalent for self-help dwelling construction in other
urban areas by families at or below the urban poverty threshold, in
order to broaden the project's impact beyond Addis Ababa. In total
over 50 percent of the construction loan fund will be accessible to
families below the poverty threshold.
(c) Kebele Development Fund
A loan fund of about US$1.7 million will be provided to kebeles or
Higher Associations for community centers, markets, and
primary schools in project areas. Provision has been made for 5
community centers and 6 schools of eight classrooms each. The schools
will enable current primary school attendance ratios to be maintained
in the project areas. No health clinics are proposed in view of the
relatively high service standards in Addis compared to the rest of the
country, and the difficulty for the Government to staff and maintain
such facilities. A small pilot development fund of about US$315,000
will also be provided for minor improvements to infrastructure, rental
dwellings or other kebele development activities in Addis Ababa.



- 15 -
(d) Institutional Development
The three implementing institutions -- the Housing Bank, the
Ministry and the Central Association (CA)-- will be strengthened.
Assistance will be provided to meet the costs of project management,
staff training, advisory services, studies and also for the further
capitalization of the Housing Bank (para.62).  Staff training will
include short courses in the various aspects of urban development,
management skills seminars, kebele seminars on housing maintenance,
and two study tours to other East African countries involved in
similar projects. About three staff-months of technical assistance
will be provided to assist in the design of these training programs.
Advisory services totalling about 24 staff-months will also be
provided to investigate any special operational problems encountered
during project implementation, and to assist monitoring and
evaluation. In addition, about 48 staff-months of advisory services
will be provided to help launch private commercial production of new
building materials. A small operational fund will complement these
advisory services to help facilitate the start of production, and
credit would be made available to enterprises under the recently
approved Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project (Cr.
1275-ET).  The studies will focus on:   (i) alternatives for improving
urban transportation in Addis Ababa; (ii) maintenance needs and
operations for urban roads, drainage and rental housing; and (iii)
future project preparation.   About 90 staff-months of technical
assistance will be provided to help carry out these studies. In
total, about 135 staff-months of technical assistance, satisfactory to
the Association, will be employed to assist the institutional
development aspects of the project.  About 60 percent of the technical
assistance will be external services costing about US$10,250
equivalent per month, and the remainder local services costing about
US$850 equivalent per month.
46.       The project will follow the existing tenure system of Ethiopia
under which titles to land and dwellings are separated, with the state
holding title to land, and individuals or others holding title to
dwellings. A land certificate granting use or occupancy rights, for which
participants will pay an annual rent, will be issued by the CA in new
housing areas. Although this right cannot be legally transferred by sale
or lease, families can inherit rights to residential plots of up to 500
m2. In upgraded settlements, occupants already hold land possession
rights. Although subletting is not allowed, dwellings are privately owned
and can be sold and inherited.
47.       Housing Bank loans to kebeles under the Kebele Development Fund
will be subject to the CA-s review and approval of the proposed
subprojects. The CA will guarantee the Housing Bank loans. In addition,
the Association will review and approve the first four loans under this
fund, and subsequent loans will be made in accordance with criteria



- 16 -
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.07(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
48.       Participants will make their own arrangements to obtain
construction loans, but most are expected to form housing cooperatives
which receive priority in building materials and also make it easier for
self-employed families to obtain credit. The Housing Bank generally
prefers to deal with cooperatives since this reduces administration costs
and appears to result in better repayment.
49.       Eligibility criteria for serviced plots in Addis Ababa and house
loans in other <rban areas will include: (a) a head of household of age 18
or over; (b) willingness to participate in a self-help program; and (c) a
reasonably regular formal or informal monthly income below about US$80
equivalent, or about the 77th percentile of the urban income curve for at
least 70 percent of the plots in serviced sites and all of the dwellings in
other urban areas (Section 3.11, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Allocation will essentially be on a first-come-first-served basis. The 250
business plots will be allocated in consultation with the Agricultural and
Industrial Development Bank. The major criteria will be the viability and
employment generating potential of the proposed business.
Project Implementation
50.       The Ministry will have overall responsibility for project
implementation. A Project Unit has been established within the Ministry
to prepare design and tender documents, supervise construction and provide
technical assistance, select plotholders, consult with communities,
organize building cooperatives, coordinate training programs, and oversee
monitoring and evaluation. The Unit will report directly to the Ministry's
Head of the Housing Research and Development Department, and through him to
the Permanent Secretary. The Head of the Project Unit and the Heads of the
Unit's Finance, Social, and Technical Divisions will have qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.05(b), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The initial appointment of the Head of the
Project Unit will be a condition for effectiveness (Section 6.01(b), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The three section heads will be appointed
by February 28, 1983 (Section 3.05 (b), draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Unit will be adequately staffed and will be delegated
authority by the Ministry for staff control, inventory control,
commitments, procurement and payments (Section 3.05(a), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
51.       The Housing Bank will extend loans for construction, community
facilities, and pit latrines (para 45(b)). To manage the additional work
which the project will create, the Housing Bank will be strengthened with
additional staff. In particular, as conditions for effectiveness, the
Housing Bank will assign a Senior Accountant, an additional loan officer
and an engineer satisfactory to the Association (Section 6.01(c), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The kebeles or Higher Associations will
construct, operate and maintain community facilities, and the CA, the Addis
Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority (AAWSA) and the Ethiopian Electric Light



- 17 -
and Power Authority (EELPA) will maintain roads and drainage, water and
electrical infrastructure, respectively (Sections 3.06 and 3.07(a), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
52.       A Coordinating Committee will be formed to review the project's
status, coordinate each institution's input and address any problems
arising during implementation (Section 3.04, draft Development Credit
Agreement). This committee will consist of representatives from the
Ministry, the CA, the Housing Bank, and the Electricity and Water
Authorities. Monitoring and evaluation will be geared to the gathering of
essential mangement information and the limited analysis of practical
problems and the project's impact on beneficiaries. Special efforts will
be focussed on key features of the project affecting the physical,
financial, or administrative design of further projects of a similar
nature. The Project Unit will formulate and supervise monitoring and
evaluation. Quarterly reports will be prepared by the Housing Bank and the
CA regarding construction loans, the Kebele Development Fund, and
collections, and these will be supplemented by reports from the Ministry on
other project activities.
53.       Project implementation will take about four years.  Detailed
engineering design work for the Nefas Silk site is nearing completion,
and for the Tekle Haimanot upgrading area it is underway. Civil works will
be carried out from early 1983 to end 1984 in Nefas Silk, and from early
1984 to end 1985 in Tekle Haimanot. Dwelling construction will proceed in
parallel with the civil works. The training and studies components are
expected to begin in mid-1983 and, except for the construction loans, the
project is expected to be completed largely by June 1986.
Cost Estimates and Financing
54.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$27.7 million
equivalent, including taxes and duties amounting to about US$900,000. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$7.5 million, or 28 percent of
the total project cost, net of taxes and duties, of US$26.8 million. A
detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
55.       Costs have been estimated at January 1982 prices and have been
derived from recent records and contracts in Ethiopia. No expenditures for
land will be made since all project sites are owned by the Government.
Physical contingencies of 15 percent have been applied to preliminary
serviced site and upgrading designs, and 5 percent to equipment, training,
and advisory services. No physical contingencies have been provided for
house loans since designs are based on units now being constructed, and
loan amounts will be pegged to recipients incomes rather than any
particular design. Price contingencies total 23 percent of the base cost
plus physical contingencies and, for local costs, have been estimated at
13, 12, 11 and 10 percent, respectively, for 1982, 1983, 1984, and 1985 and
1986. For foreign costs, they have been estimated at 8.5 percent for 1982,
and 7.5 percent for 1983 to 1986, respectively.
.,



- 18 -
56.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 18.0 million (US$20.0 million
equivalent) will finance 75 percent of the total project cost, net of taxes
and duties, including all of the foreign costs and 65 percent of the local
costs. The Government will provide funds to meet the remaining local costs
of the project estimated at US$6.8 million equivalent, plus the taxes and
duties. The financing of a high level of local costs is justified in view
of both the country's general economic needs (para.22), and the project's
low foreign exchange component.
57.       About US$ 11.3 million equivalent of project funds, including
US$7.9 million from the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit, will be relent
to the Housing and Savings Bank for the construction loans, the Kebele
Development Fund, and the development of the commercial and industrial
plots. Another US$6.2 million equivalent of project funds, including
US$4.1 million of the proposed IDA credit, will be relent to the CA for the
upgrading works, refuse equipment, maintenance of project facilities,
operation of markets, and the studies on maintenance and urban transport.
The relending of IDA credit proceeds to the Housing Bank will carry terms
of 8 percent interest per annum, with a repayment period of 25 years
including five years' grace. Another US$4.0 million equivalent will be
made available the Housing Bank on a grant basis in order to increase its
capitalization (para. 62) (Sections 3.01(c)(i) and 3.01(c)(ii), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The relending of IDA credit proceeds to the
CA will also carry terms of 8 percent interest per annum, with a repayment
period of 25 years including five year's grace (Section 3.01(d), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The 8 percent relending rate is about two
percentage points above the current domestic savings rate in Ethiopia. The
remaining US$4.0 million equivalent of the IDA credit will be administered
by the Ministry for project management, advisory services, training, and
future project preparation.   The Government will bear the foreign exchange
risk.
58.       The Housing Bank will extend fixed rate construction loans to
kebeles, housing cooperatives and individuals in both Addis Ababa and areas
outside of Addis Ababa at an effective interest rate of not less than 11
percent per annum (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement). Repayment
periods are expected to average about 20 years. This rate includes a 9
percent nominal interest rate plus service charges for survey fees,
collection/default, mortgage redemption and fire insurance. The 11 percent
rate is the same as the Housing Bank's current rate for construction loans,
and represents a 5 percentage point spread over the Housing Bank's current
average cost of borrowing and also over the Housing Bank's 6 percent rate
on a similar on-going self-help project being assisted by the EEC. With
projected inflation of about 9 to 10 percent per annum at the time
construction loans are initiated in 1984 and 1985, the 11 percent rate
should assure positive real rates of about 2 percent. However, the Housing
Bank will take all necessary measures to ensure that it is positive in real
terms (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement). The execution of subsidiary
loan agreements, satisfactory to the Association, with the Housing Bank and
the CA, will be conditions for effectiveness (Section 6.01(a), draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
Cost Recovery and Financial Impact
59.       To ensure financial viability and replicability, maximum cost
recovery has been emphasized. About 69 percent of total project costs will
be directly recovered from beneficiaries through monthly charges covering
community facilities, water, electricity, compensation for resettlement,
and construction loans, and 16 percent through municipal revenues that will
cover the costs of roads and related drainage, refuse equipment,
maintenance and studies. The remaining 15 percent of total project costs,
covering project management, training, advisory services and future project
preparation, will be borne by the Government (Section 3.13, draft
Development Credit Agreement). The housing cooperatives will collect
construction loan repayments from beneficiaries, the Water and Electricity
Authorities will collect utility charges, and kebeles will repay Kebele
Development Fund loans from their general revenues. The CA is expected to
have no difficulty in meeting its financial obligations under the project,
and the Housing Bank is expected to realize positive net annual cash flows
ranging between US$700,000 and US$3.4 million equivalent during the project
implementation period.
Housing and Savings Bank Finances
60.       The Housing Bank's total assets have grown rapidly in recent
years, from about US$43 million equivalent on December 31, 1976 to US$106
million on June 30, 1981. On this latter date, its loan portfolio amounted
to about US$90 million of which mortgages represented US$84 million. Of
the Housing Bank's total liabilities at June 30, 1981, about US$81 million
was institutional time deposits and individual savings deposits, US$15
million was long-term debt, US$7 million was short-term debt, and about
US$3 million represented managed trust funds. Cash on hand represented
about 18 percent of total deposits, which is considered a prudent level.
Equity amounted to about only US$1.5 million equivalent, implying a
long-term debt equity ratio of 10/1 and a total debt/equity ratio of 70/1.
The total debt/equity ratio has deteriorated significantly from the ratio
of 27/1 experienced in 1977, which was already high. The Housing Bank's
profitability has remained satisfactory since 1976; pretax profits yielded
an average annual return on total assets of about 1.4 percent between
December 1976 and June 1981, on the basis of yearly lending spreads ranging
from 3 to 5 percent. Arrears, however, are significant; about 38 percent
of all loans are presently in arrears by four months or more, including 13
percent in arrears by over 12 months, but altogether loans in arrears
account for only about six percent of the outstanding principal and
interest. The Housing Bank has recently mounted a collection campaign to
reduce this arrears level, and preliminary results have shown progress. In
addition, the Housing Bank will carry out annual reviews of its mortgage
portfolio to identify those components on which further steps need to be
taken to reduce arrears (Section 3.03(a), draft Project Agreement).
61.       The Housing Bank's financial structure was affected adversely by
the 1975 nationalization of urban land and "extra" (rental) houses. The
loans it had outstanding for rental houses are being repaid largely from
the rental income collected by the Government's Rental Housing Agency, but
those secured by undeveloped land are not being repaid since the land is
generating no income. The Government has therefore offered to replenish



-20  -
the Housing Bank for land loans provided the original borrowers pay all
back arrears and taxes up to the date of nationalization, and some of the
loans have been written off on this basis. As of June 30, 1981, however,
about US$1.9 million equivalent of these loans still remained in the
Housing Bank's portfolio, and are considered uncollectible. This amount
represents about 2 percent of its total loan portfolio and is about equal
to its current level of bad debt provisions. In addition, the Housing Bank
has other problem loans totalling about US$3.6 million, or 4 percent of its
total portfolio, that are considered to be weak or uncollectible. About
half of this may eventually have to be written off, thereby bringing
estimated bad debts to about US$3.7 million equivalent. Cumbersome legal
procedures and recent court decisions in Ethiopia, however, make
foreclosure and resale of the associated properties difficult. Prevailing
law prevents the Housing Bank from renting foreclosed properties, or
transferring them to the Rental Housing Agency, and thereby recovering its
investments. In addition, foreclosed properties must be put up for sale
and, if not sold at an established price, become subject to a complex
auctioning procedure. If a property is not disposed of in auction the
courts can instruct the Housing Bank to take over the property at a price
they determine. Auction therefore imposes a risk on the Housing Bank that
it will either not be able to recoup its investment or that it will have to
bear an unwanted administrative burden.
62.       To improve the Housing Bank's financial position, a number of
steps will be taken. First, the Government will strengthen the Housing
Bank's equity base by making available about US$5.8 million equivalent in
project funds, including about US$4.0 million equivalent of the IDA credit
proceeds, to the Housing Bank on a grant basis (Section 3.01(c) (ii), draft
Development Credit Agreement). This will reduce the Housing Bank's total
debt/equity ratio from about 70/1 to about 18/; by 1986, and its long-term
debt equity ratio from about 10/1 to about 2.1/1. Secondly, the
Government, in accordance with established procedures, will permit the
Housing Bank to retain 60 percent of its surplus earnings annually whenever
its general reserve fund falls below 60 percent of its paid-in capital due
to losses (Section 3.12, draft Development Credit Agreement). Thirdly, the
Housing Bank will proceed to auction properties obtained through
foreclosures (Section 3.03(b), draft Project Agreement). Fourthly, the
Housing Bank will continue to seek replenishment of its land loan portfolio
by encouraging the original owners to pay back arrears and taxes, and will
prepare annual reports on progress starting in December 1982 (Section
3.03(c), draft Project Agreement). The Government will assist the Housing
Bank in its efforts to collect all outstanding loans secured by
nationalized land. If any loans remain outstanding after December 31,
1985, the Housing Bank will write off the outstanding balances.
Central Association Finances
63.       The Government recently reviewed the Addis Ababa Central
Association finances as a step towards restructuring its revenue base and
expenditures. The nationalization of urban land and extra houses
significantly reduced municipal income. Nevertheless, the city's annual
revenues, including a small subsidy from the Government, grew from about



- 21 --
US$7.7 million equivalent in fiscal year 1977/78 to about US$11.6 million
in 1980/81, and revenues of about US$15.5 million are expected this year.
Expenditures have also grown, but in the last three years an annual surplus
has been realized and carried forward. Recently, Addis officials submitted
proposals to the Council of Ministers recommending additional taxes to
increase revenues.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.       Contracts for civil works, refuse equipment and other equiment
and vehicles totalling about US$2.9 million equivalent will be awarded on
the basis of international competetive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Materials for house construction and
commercial-industrial infrastructure totalling about US$16.6 million
equivalent will be proucured directly by individual households or
cooperatives from local suppliers. Nearly all the materials are produced
domestically. Small contracts totalling about US$2.9 million will be
procured through local bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association
and in which foreign suppliers may participate. These contracts will
include construction of community facilities and markets, and periodic road
maintenance. Works accounting to about US$600,000 for electrical
distribution lines and water standpipes will be constructed by force
account by the electrical and water authorities. When international
competitive bidding is used, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a
preference of 15 percent, or the existing rate of customs duty, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers. In
addition, local civil works contractors will be allowed a preferential
margin of 7-1/2 percent over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
65.       The Association will disburse against:(i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures or 70 percent of local expenditures for civil works (site
development and servicing) and maintenance of project facilities; (ii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures or 70 percent of local expenditures for
equipment, staff salaries and other project operating costs of the Project
Unit, the Housing Bank and the Central Association; (iii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or 70 percent of local expenditures for training,
advisory services and studies implemented by the Project Unit or the CA;
and (iv) 70 percent of total expenditures on loans for house construction,
and related services and equipment, and the Kebele Development Fund.
Retroactive financing of up to US$250,000 equivalent is proposed for
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1982 on start-up costs (project
administration, advisory services, and equipment), primarily for the
Project Unit and the Housing Bank.
66.       Expenditures for construction loans, community facilities
constructed by kebeles, and staff salaries and other operating costs, will
be made against statements of expenditures with documentation retained for
inspection by IDA missions. The Housing Bank's accounting and audit system
is satisfactory for maintaining these statements. The Central Association
and the Project Unit, however, will establish accounting and audit systems,
satisfactory to the Association, as conditions for disbursements on all
items for which statements of expenditure will be required (Para. 3(b),
Schedule 1, draft Development Credit Agreement). On the basis of the



- 22 -
project implementation schedule and general IDA disbursement experience for
similar projects, disbursements are expected to be completed by December
1988.
Justification, Risks and Poverty Content
67.       The project will be the Government's first major response to the
severe shortage of housing and residential services in Addis Ababa. It
will revitalize the housing construction industry and provide work sites,
shelter, improved services and credit for the low-income urban majority.
The project will demonstrate the feasibility and popular acceptance of
affordable standards and cost recovery, and help to establish a replicable
process. For the upgrading areas, the project's average costs including
servicing, project administration, and the construction or improvement of
dwellings,totals about US$340 equivalent per household or about US$65 per
capita, and, for the serviced sites, about US$2800 per plot or $545 per
capita. The project will also strengthen the implementation capacities of
the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing, the Housing and Savings
Bank, and the Addis Ababa Central Association. About 1200 permanent jobs
will be created by the civil works, project administration, and the use of
commercial/industrial sites. Of an estimated 16,000 households to be
impacted by the project, about 74 percent are expected to have incomes
below Ethiopia's urban poverty threshold.
68.       The overall rate of return for project components for which
benefits can be quantified (90 percent of total project costs excluding the
capitalization of the Housing Bank), is about 24 percent. This includes
the serviced sites for residential and small industrial use, as well as
dwellings, management and upgrading. It excludes the Kebele Development
Fund, refuse equipment, road maintenance, and institutional strengthening.
The estimated rates of return for the serviced plots, including
construction loans, and the upgrading components separately are 25 percent
and 11 percent, respectively.   The low return on ugprading reflects the
lack of price differentials in rent levels of residential units of
differing qualities since house rents are controlled. The nationalization
of all urban land and extra houses terminated private land sale and rental,
and therefore economic values of rents and land are difficult to estimate.
However, sensitivity analysis indicates that even if rental and land values
were under- or overestimated by as much as 50 percent, the rate of return
on the serviced site component would still range between 12 and 34
percent. Construction delays of about two years would lead to cost
overruns of about 30 percent, and the overall rate of return would fall to
about 19 percent.
69.       The major risk involves possible delays resulting from limited
administrative capacity, particularly in the Ministry or the Central
Association, or from a continued erosion in affordability exacerbated by
possible shortages of building materials. Professional manpower is scarce
and likely to remain so throughout implementation. Design standards have
therefore been kept simple, and the project size scaled to objectives



- 23 -
considered achievable over the four-year implementation period. In
addition, staff development training programs will help to overcome
manpower constraints by improving staff effectiveness and productivity.
The risk of a possible building materials shortage has been addressed in
three ways: (a) dwelling designs will minimize to the extent possible the
use of materials known to be in short supply; (b) procedures have been set
up by the Ministry to accord project participants a measure of priority in
the allocation of materials; and (c) funds have been provided to market new
construction techniques using materials which are more widely available.
Another risk is the unknown capacity of the kebeles to staff, operate and
maintain the community facilities and services provided under the project.
To minimize this risk, loan funds for these facilities will be approved
only upon demonstration of reasonable implementation and collection
capacity by the the concerned kebeles (para. 47). The proposed training
programs will also help to reduce this risk.
V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Housing and Savings Bank, and the recommendation of the Committee provided
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
72.       Disbursement for all items under the statement of expenditure
procedure will be conditional upon the establishment of a system of project
accounts and audits, satisfactory to the Association, for the Ministry and
the Central Association (Para. 3(b), Schedule 1, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
73.       Additional conditions for effectiveness of the proposed credit
will be:
(i) the execution of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to
the Association, between the Borrower and the Housing Bank and
between the Borrower and the CA (Section 6.01(a), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
(ii) the appointment of a Project Unit Head, satisfactory to the
Association (Section 6.01(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement); and
(iii) the assignment by the Housing Bank of a Senior Accountant,
an additional loan officer and an engineer satisfactory to the
Association (Section 6.01(c), draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 24 -
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 29, 1982



- 25 -                                    ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                       Page  1
ETHIOPIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1221.9
AGRICULTURAL      782.3                                    MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      40.0         70.0      130.0                  238.3                    794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          9.1         30.5        20.3                   70.5                    707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 20093.0         25450.0   30861.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  6.4              9.3       13.9                   17.5                     27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           53.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            162.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED                      2140
POPULATION DENSITY
eER SQ. KM.                          16.4         20.8       25.3                    27.7                     55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        25.0         32.0       38.8                    73.7                    130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            43.9         44.8        45.0                  44.8                      46.0
15-64 YRS.                            53.5         52.6       52.4                   52.4                      51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          2.6        2.6                     2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.1          2.4        2.1/j                   2.6                      2.8
URBAN                                 5.5          6.1        6.6                     6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        50.7          49.9       49.8                   46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSANDI)       28.1          25.6       24.4                   19.3                     15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3           3.3        3.3                    3.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            103.0        101.0       84.0/c                 89.5                      89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      83.0         83.0       75.0                   90.2                     92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             65.0         65.0       58.5                   52.7                      52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          25.0         26.0       22.0                   17.8                      16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        42.5         38.1        36.0                   27.3                     20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9            38.3        39.8                   45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             172.0         178.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          6.0        6.0                    23.9                     27.4
URBAN                                  ..            ..      32.0                   55.0                      74.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..        2.0                   18.5                      12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         14.0       14.0                   26.2
URBAN                                  . .        67.0       56.0                   63.5
RURAL                                  . .         8.0        8.0                   20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           100465.0      75744.0   75320.7                 31911.8                   13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    14921.6          7876.8    5399.1                  3674.9                    2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              3023.8       3083.4    3410.4                  1238.8                    1028.4
URBAN                               224.2        377.0         ..                  272.8                     423.0
RURAL                                  ..      16009.9          ..                1745.2                    3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..        10.6
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          4.5
URBAN                                 3.5          4.2 1/
RURAL                                  ..          4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                 2.7            ..        ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..            ..
URBAN                                58.2/e          ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..            ..
1/ The appraisal mission has reestimated this figure to be about 5.3.



- 26 -                                    ANNEXI
TABLE 3A                                           Page  2
ETHIOPIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENKOLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  7.0         16.0      38.0                   56.4                    73.7
MALE                  11.0        23.0         ..                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                 3.0        10.0         ..                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  0.4          4.0        9.1/f                10.0                    16.2
MALE                   1.0         6.0         . .                 13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 0.1         2.0         ..                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  20.0           4.5         ..                   8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            38.0         48.0       50.0                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                          13.0         28.0      38.0                   25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..         6.0/d    15.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          1.6        1.8                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.9          6.3        7.2                 32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.3       0.8                    1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0          1.1        1.2                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8974.7      10957.5   12774.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.7         35.2      34.6                  34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.0         84.0       80.1                  80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.0          6.0       6.9                   8.6                     17%5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                44.7         43.1       41.4                  41.7                    37.2
MALE                                 58.6         56.9      55.1                   54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                               31.3         29.7      28.1                   29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URbAN                                ..           ..     115.0 1/              136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0                   84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      77.0                  99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      37.0                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      60.0                  39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   FAO data differ somewhat from Ministry of Agriculture data, and may exaggerate the apparent decline;
/d 1965; /e Addis ababa only; /f Combined lower and higher secondary; /g Recent population growth
rate for 1975-80 is 2.51.
May, 1981
1/ The appraisal mission has reestimated this figure to be about US$190 in 1981.



- 27 -                                               ANNEX I
DEFMITONSOF  OCU    EMCATRSPage    3
R-ot..;  Although the dotter. dre   from  .oorc.. ge-elly judged tOe et    ohrtot. ed  rlol,it ehoold ale he notd thtthey eey nut ho toe--
gottalycopbtl. b. o..   f the 1latko  eee. rieddet               I_tt   .ed  ..ropt. uced by differen.t cocorte  to. collc1tieg the dote.  The dot  ea,tet
aheleac, useful tod....the order, of eegitudc  teicte tree.d.,ed throtr.e crt.i  -aJo. dtffaoe.. hate..  co-otl.e.
Th,e      '       " reencgop.eo  11) the.em  cototoy grou.P of thu euhiect otutry cad (2) a  -uotry gr... p  itth ae..meco    htgh.   vrg    ne.te   h   oer   re
of the ebject cutety (_etePt for 'Capital tuIPo_ Oil tpr..  group there "Middle Ioo.   Nothoehe ldsOs't.ce.   ...   feon
eaerttyof the ouuort.. o a grou  he. det  fee  the   thdiectr.  Ott. -the rover. -iht        i-t ccoie rmn  oh  ictr   dendoth.e ilttyifdt
.An  ia not -ifo.m, isutine wan he eaenetaad Infrelotto    v.ee  of oeindietor to etoth-r  Thea. ee .ge  ar, oily o.efo1l1 tooiPaoing the1  J..o if
-itdi.dtcatr etet  tee a.9. ohs   . cot Mtysd  o.eo           roopa
LAIID ARMA (thootoed aq.k.)                                                                      Popotatin perOaptel tad - totei otcb, en               _toe     Ppis-elinl
Tetol - Totol aurforcre  com.prising toed ore  tod tn1aud metrs                                  uhu, atd root) divie   y  he  os.pst.                ibro   opolbd
Attotrl lt=teti  of egricolnrol are  teed t-porarily or p-ratt                            oilehla to poblic eed pr-toot  geero  ad eetliod hea.ptol;leed re-
fuo crpe, peant..., ecrke  and keithee godens oronli  follow; 197  dt.                           eilntioeit..Itootlar.ohieheeot.tpraenl   nff.'
by at lseat on p'hyotete.   ttelahneprhvidito poincipalty cuato-
~F P01CAPiT  (yip  - GOP P.r cePita  .ic.   toret  ahtpit,cl                                 dial.. ttr,teo  inclded   ford  h-epitel.. hee..or, toctlde   oo
culeted by  ema  --neio. method a.World tokAle(9779ha.;16,odmeiacntr  ntemeetly stefo   by e yby.icia  (boob.
1970 e.  t979 deta.                                                                             madicaaatn.1norce, midwife,to) ochofferI ie-pte ten   ion
detior te  povid. o limited rang, of medical feciIiie.      Feeest
triot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ty) ie tilogree  if col eqoivalot p.r capita; 196D. 1970,..td 1979  cetra Spsteited  hospital. aeincue: nlrte   tota.
dote.                                                                  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1dmtsaione eec ttoerP~tae  ted - Totalnha i..rfdedateiened', too  diechergso
from hepol   iided by the either ot bed.
POPU7LATIION ANOD VITAL STATISTICS
Totolp . 1oeletoin. Mid-Taco (th ..e.ede) - A. of JulY 1; 1960, 1970, aid 1979               HOUINGi
date.                                                                                        Sora   ite of Hoe...hold (porit  err  hosie) -  od    rat." en Iue 
Urben PelttnIrrocee  of total) - Rtut  o,f  eba, to eeeel population;                            A  iehl          ee.of e gco  o f   didodol  who eh,r  lIvigqtr
diEffernt definiottee if  oii toot.eyuffeot  -oP.rsheilcyit .date                              end  hbIv  et  made.    hcocde  or todger maY i  may not he inriuded in
s   -gcutriea; 1960, 1970, and 1979 dete.                                                   ehe b-ooahld forea                P_tcu    .oro....
Porelatton Projcctiiuc                                                ~~~~Averuar! comber of oeveoe. roe  coi -totl  oree  udrIe  - Average 0-
Pupelciton inyrar 1101 - C trt  pepole,,tiotP111. bvr       ...ase   hed    1980        her of pereoneP pe  root itall  rha,i  o'd rural ovopedcoetitotl
total ppotinby age tedennd ioecric   n   etly                                                             I-ce  oilie    tpectior1y.  Doeltiigceclode non-pormeiente-rrtoveae
Pn).e -epaeotr  toe toreelity rae.ciprics of chrto tevls.e.o-.oiicpiod part..
log lit. eneceoy at birth inIrr...ioa cith c..otory. p.r c.Pit. inom                       hr.et  elctIct, Hroeto   eliel-  oe.ohn   n   eo 
fer,  n zteit lIfe  oeccnyae itig et 77.5 Year..  meh Pare-                            Covnitldeleg    ihertrce   olve   qoStr.0 ecetg
-treeFor  ertilty  ote else heve three 1es-1aaun  doolits to                           ofttl   re,  n   oe   elingo repectively.
erhi i_tIy ioodieg to          .e.e tta  -ed pc   ciypaigpreti
Ith  outr  t  teeaeIg=     one of cht  rii   oehietione of _atelity               ftCTo
cd fetiltey treode fro  prIjeciiupat                                                      dloated fErolleset totie
itotinury  ceoleton-I.aeectooor   pooalnteet  ogot   irrey P'echiol -  ot,al  and f.ela-CGr... eit,al   end f ale
the birth rate Ia eqe1 ti tho doth Iat,en  oc  the Igo              --ocor  re-                enolet  tilogea                    piaylee   epocnaa  o   rpti"a
ma -toecn.  Thie Ia eohived only ofter fertility reers deolite e.                          etetoy  hoobol-eg  ppteieo.e;  -orall  iic~ledehitldre  ngc  6-11
the relr    -.t  ee  of ..it est reprdo-ciotate  ohee ouch egt.r. ioYear.. hot adjoated for diffreret  Ieegtbe of petmaryede...ttIn; fir
of etea  repleoo. iteolf soacely.  The *tiaypepelI.io   cie  tacooeieee   eelveee  edeoi-   etoltmy onotd 100 psoetnt
eeiecte  it thre boaie of the poojrctd. ch'racteicoive of the i~poletto                      ai    Psi.perl   r  baeoroi. the ofticict erheol age.
It, the year lol0, cod thr rote of delItIf I II fetlty ete to rI..e.e..eye.o.-  otl  oa  e   eml   Compted bc.o-v;oeoodary
ant ieeIrl.. ldiaeonrequIere  itee-  f.cr years of apprve  petor  1,testuti;
Year etittoncy poploloto  I. reac.hed -Tb. Year obo  ettionury popoletlee                        pevdea goel,  icto               or teachee  rcniletr       uc .tie0orpupih
s -ierhoe beet r-.eed.                                                                         eceelly of 12 ti 17 yoere of age; orepoeo   orc   re generall1y
PuEkittin~ _eseec lodtd.
P.re. k.. - td-yeeTr poro1atii.PI peqoere leilieeea   (100 hcet)o                                ootoo  nelen   orntf  rccooo      otiontl  oeit- iota..
tctae;961, 1970 aid 1979 date.iild terca,edtrl,oohr prigree  ehich   i-eat  iudepod-
Per eq. ke. goi-olt-rl lend - Cotpoted ec  bho-  foergool          1vl cd                        stelyIv rctet   fac.eIdrY in-itotion.
ivojly;.1961. 1977 end 1978 dee.                                                                   ..P.i-  1e et     eooy   i   sodr  -Ttlcnet   oelcd in
Pet-lto   -o         ..rcor  leorcee) - Children  (0-li yea.)... rin-g   (15-                    Peftoy aid  -eoedery 1-v1l  divided by nubhv  of tathbs   in the
64 yenta), end retlrsd  (65 Yreve atd ovr) capoceagcof  id-ys..r Ppop-                           crteePe.ing le-oela
latice; 1961, 1970, ao  1979 det.                                                              Adelt literav rate (Peacrett  - Literate ed1lte  (bl. to road and weit)
Poeoletloe Grwth Oat. leacoec - toc A-Aneltgrowth cetee it rtoce  eid-                  eepe-ortege of itel. odoIt popolacie tgsd 15 your. cod 0Pev,
yearpopteionafoe195-hI  197-7, ed 1971-79.
Ppoileeo  Iroeth2 tot  leerceet) - ehe  - ko-ttea  grerh e   of orhe Ppip-                   COOI70PIIo
latior- for 1950-61, 1900,ed1971-79.                                                         Ieen       eele  theeac..d epelat-ioc      eengrcr   omre   ae
leode toot  Otte herthoeseed)- Acou  liv  births Per throead of  ied-y.ear                    . ceaattno  esetheight pre..ee; enclodo..ab,ave   nre   o
P.relsoIn; igI.  197,ai1979 dat.                                                               ailtetryc-bicle..
Code Dr-o  Oat. (ore Ii~oeaed) -9 Anto         theci  Per thoecide of aid-your                 Ruii Feev          er thicond rorelaitn   -IMPl tyeeo.-otor  for dot
Epopelettot; 1960, t97D,ad179dot.                                                               brIedoeee0  gteetpbItMr hoc     of  Pip.tin  tooed.foe
lee.. teredeoioc tut-hooroe eithe  of deghter.a:omae.ill beer it                  Jt.sd  eeoret  ooovieed It Years ehe-rgite Do                         f eadie
her ..Irl -p-odctivr petted If -h  oPri.n.a.. tre F             g-eVifio fen-                  ece  ccc etflfto    date f.  re-ot year. maY not be otapovble etie
rt icyrct;t      cey     ivo-Ye.r Iv,g..     odngit1960. 1970, and 1979.                       metoeeriee tbolihd  li-ening.
Fomil Plcnna-ooecroe. Aeetl thooende)- An ..oI comber of to...                     V eevo   vo   hiedpeoeje   TVesivs fee brod.Ite  to
ofhoh-cto  device.. ceder aplces if  eri-te1 family PIuntog pFgea                       aeerol peblic perthoesced popelotion; ruloeeolioenad TV -rittore
Pcmil Plat1ialeeve(verene  f _tried  -ooc  - y,oc-eteg  of  -aried                      ii ooeoo   od Ityer  oe  reitoto                 f TVat 7a to effec t,
weofohIld-boulc  age (15-44 years.) eho        birhlth--oor-I device, to               Ooeoorliolo  iile  thioedccoet...So,th   org  nel-
Pileicdevoted PI   I ly ti  eoI.. die9  g...c  note   It I.c coteidered
Fill 041 Ofll'I'e11109                               .                   ~~~~~~~~~to h. "doily" if it appear. at icoet Pirf noee
loe IfFooTodolo00Cat  16-140      lodn of Per ..pit.ceoa..l                               CloeAoAl tedccOrotto?d                 es   re-  ae   ithoubef
poodiotlie o0 e11  ood oowedietoe.  yedeoeteteocledeeeed ted feed  od           Vickt  cold dorto   h   er  ioeigdtisetie.  cI doive-in ci---t
ta  t oleoer  oorbaic. Cowdttieeove  primary goode (e.g. eg--teodmatecl.
titu   o   oo) ahio r  edible ecd c-ocoit ceeleea. io -ecd
era arenloded).  Ageregoto prooireioc of such  -ooory Ie bae ... d.60R FORIE
otic    vvg   prdooepiroihee;1961-5  1970. co  1979 deet.                           Total Labor Piece (thousands) -        -cooi-lly ootioe p.r.....  lnotdin
Per ceiea  erilyof cooris  (reooet o  veqeren,i.t) - Coepoodfee                  armefrc. Pe  enmlt         e   i eoeIfghcreoa   tdee  ai:,r..
ecergyrqel-1-te   of too food eipplioecv-ilabe  ioceotry Pev ccpii                           roeigpplee   f ell  ge.    eIcitione  in v-rie ...               et....  ar
Pro  doy.  hotiloble  -pplle. r-pelee doericl   ridocton, liporee Ices                       not           1ep 960e lb, 19~70 tdf.1979 daa
coporte  aid rao0re  estoob Oat cPrliastldeailfed, erd,                           el1lrcet.             Peal  lbo  foc         P. peteetgs of rtot1 tehor force.
maccc cor  e      tlcd by PhO b.e.d o   hyciologica Ie. d  fo ,ono   cti-                    fiahieg a.pevoteago of  ltoe   lao  fre;160,197 0 ai  199daa
ot7ai   oue nydre hoveltooclt-peretore, bodY cihte, ugBe.eolrree      ao  force. iteeoRcntetin,aeatr
co   eodceeoioIofpictoe  tdolowe  10 peecoet for ore at                              end electricity,ot0aId ce  t  p -otg   If toto   ehr frre;1960.
house.holdlee;li-, 190  cd197doc                                                             1979 aid 1979 data..
Per ant.eerpr itovotir (Kr-m rer day) - PrctootetfpecaRote                             Peeriofec~teot tte  rrcetl-  otl.mae and. fe l-Paetopotion  it
oeo copyly of food pre  day.  Net coply of food I:i. deIned ec abov.   te                     civt!et.oe  optd astotel, eale,edfml                           efrea
qoteneet  for nil r.oiteiec ostehliehd by UiSDA provide too elimue                           Peroenr..ge  of eetal, ale  ted feel   oolt1            fal   gtcepotey
cIoee.. o  h  trues orrr   toielt   p         'clpedY and      gee -foia  atd               1960, 1970. aid 1979 dote.  Thee. ove bheced iiILO 'c patticptionroe
Pelee .Poto,fehichligetsedbecno  pro_ le.    ec  -ead-                                       estootte   ag-o   ioov    lteP.plci,edln   leted
erd,  r   ber  ie   hos  f75ars  of eo-ul proosie eed 23 groes of                            feeetloa  eve trim eoceio..nol. eroee
tuba IPIo.,.ieaeveeg   foethe  _rd,Propo...d by PAl ie ehe Third                          fooei  eeeecyOt   - tutiu  of ppelcti-t ceder ii end 65 cod ive
World Food S-rve; 1961-65, 1970 and (977 dcto.                                               to  rho tcoe1 tahoe fo,rc.
Per   uteprotte opot fva eemaland  il o-rvoie  sepply of food do-
vtod  romeonal  ad  ooletto  ece  ar  ay  191-S,1970 sod 1977 date.       1N     tlmoeuoIB-ON
ChIldlete  1-A)ttorelecytote(vetIhocound)        1 tee deetha par thoue-d It         Peootro   ove  oco(oh to oah ted (hod) - oRt-i-d by viohee
ego. goe   S-yo.   oobleti  hh.c ro;fo   otdvlpegoo                                               ovee     Iibc   10 prreet  Pooirene 20 pre..oec, ted pooeet Al psrrent
Inedc  deod fre1i      t  ohc;  90,17-nod 097  dut,                                        ofh ho..ohold
HFOLOTH                                                                                        PO-VoRTYTOOGET -IROUPi
Life f         Yccac  ce  teth (rot) - Aoeetge cother of peer. of life  -emelcig               The.olwn    elto   e   oyoyitormtoe   fpveyloe
ortirh   l.h.. 1970      I 179 dna.00  eaod be ico.ropeo  uich booieloeie
ot age per eho....d live bioibh..Aelc   oee    om   ee   .tc   en   ee   eo .,,idb.  ad ror.1
be   fpeople  leot-l  erha, eed vied1) oichoe--blrec...t. ea.                               affodbe
eeteeppt  (icoledeiou    eraeate    r  cracdbo  notoieed                                  tieIldi      eaie  ooovIomalvldbIor   oti)-uru   ndne 
eaerocooht  in potced  oebde,  pIege, cd bueiia-t eale                                  E.  -toloitveperyIom lv I                 .  ooeLv   f  veoe.e  capite.
ofllll1    h Ir el 'leleteve popelct -s  Itee-e-b-oeeropehlio                            eeoo 'lco    of tie cory.  irhn level I. derived toron the rootI
c idteco e. edred =      ote  octi t.orete   00ersfie   Oceac ea  beleve  nith .djeatae   for highr  -roo  of livit0  Iv onto eren
eece_bleere        - ied imPlyOo  the icenf  ic eesr  or ffthe h-oeododrrl-Proro  rotrotoclAb.ieI Pot  tdria)-h                                               ret"ehcol bi
di oct her  tep-od .dlpooyoroiooeo  P- of the daYIto fthit  the, dP. ..
Oooeeto  e--t lio- eol                                                                            orreoo  eeioo-oel  re. e   ee
Olmbe  of peoria hoel          ..be  cod rve)sevd by  .rtoec  dlercele
pc.tg.of their r-I Oepoecio.~ro.dnoo  my ioelde
the  cilsceion and doepeei.     it   reth   v    retae  of hemece tri
adtaeotar hy  -ce-bove  eyeete  or tho i-  of pie p-cvieeced .~J                                                              Eroo....   ted Sooic1 Dtee lioii
Pooeceie re  rbeeoeo -PorelaIco divided by either of portlocieg phyoi-                                                                             18
riace q.iilfled fvoc a erdlo1 erhool ot  civareioy leel
PyoycP oivo  toeio  evv- PoeiedivIded by veobr of poctiolr
mal  nod f-1oO   e-d-to..vrs...  preo-i-1  -         .cordes  cod



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Economic Indicators                                          Page 4
Gross national Product in FY 1981 1/                                     Annual Rate of Growth (Z  constant prices)
US$Mln.        X                                FY1976-81         FY1981
GNP at Market Prices                 4231.3       100.0                                  2.9              3.3
Gross Domestic investment             430.9        10.2
Gross Domestic Savings                1/0.8         4.0
Resource Balance                     -260.1        -6.1
Export of Goods and NFS               548.5        12.9
Import of Goods and NFS               808.6        19.1
Output in FY1981 1/                               Government Finance           Central Government
Value Added                                           (Br.Mln)               X of GDP
US$Mln.        %                                    FY1981           FY1981         FY1978-80
Agriculture             1944.0         50.3       Current Receipts             1743.3           19.8                22.1
Industry                 61J.2         lb.9       Current Expenditures         1658.7           18.9                21.0
Services                1308.5         33.8       Current Surplus                84.6            0.9                 1.1
3865.7        100.0       Capital Expenditures          438.2            5.0                 5.6
Money, Credit and Prices
(Fiscal Years)                                                     1978          1979         1980       1981
(million Br. outstanding end of period)
Money and quasy-money                                              1690.8        1859.3       2108.7    2087.8
Bank Credit to Central Government                                   766.3         862.3        968.1    1107.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutions                                          911.9         1222.7       1644.2    1721.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money as x ot GDP                                                    23.4          23.3         24.9       23.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                                   18.b           12.9       12.5        7.0
hank uredit to Public Sector                                          /2.9           12.5       12.3       14.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                         42.0           34.1       34.5        4.7
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Fiscal Year: July 8 to 7.



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
Balance of Payments
(Fiscal Years)                      1978            1979         1980       1981 1/              Merchandise Exports (1978-81)
(Million US$)                                     (Fiscal Year Average)
US$Mln.   %
Exports of Goods, NFS               418.5           455.4         584.2      548.6                Coffee              266.9    68.8
Imports of Goods, NFS               613.8           660.8        804.1      808.5                 Pulses               11.9      3.1
Resource Gap (deficit   -)  -195.3                 -205.4       -219.9    -259.9                  Oilseeds              6.1      1.6
Hides & Skins        47.9    12.4
Investment Income (net)              -4.5            -2.5           7.3       -6.5                Oilseed cake          3.4      0.8
Private Transfers (net)              14.9            23.3          19.9       24.7                Other                51.6    13.3
Balance on Current Account         -184.9          -184.6       -192.7    -241.7                     Total            387.8   100.0
Official Transfers (net)              53.2           59.7          59.9       52.2                External Debt, Dec. 31,1981
Private MLT Capital (net)              3.5            0.0           0.0        0.0                                        US$Mln.
Public MLT Borrowing (net)           33.2            73.1         96.1        84.1                Public Debt.Incl.
Disbursements                    (49.6)          (88.4)       (112.9)  (102.3)                     guaranteed
Amortization                     (16.4)          (15.3)       (16.8)     (18.2)               Total outstanding &
Short-term Private Capital          -13.5           -19.0        -14.3       -6.0                    Disbursed               831.0
Change in reserves (-=                                                                            Debt Service Ratio for FY198l
increase)                        125.8            45.7          39.1      87.3
Minor Items                         -16.9            25.2           11.9      24.2                Public Debt. incl.
Gross Reserves (end year)           264.4           218.7         179.6    120.6                     guaranteed              6.2
Petroleum Imports                 60.0            68.2         118.3    138.7
Petroleum                         16.5            41.6          37.0      27.0
IBRD/IDA Lending (Sept.30,1982)
(US$ Mln.)
1BRD      IDA
Outstanding &
Disbursed       48.7    307.0
Undisbursed    -         136.5
Outstanding incl.
Undisbursed    48.7    443.5
Rate of Exchange
Since 1974
US$1.00 = Br.2.07
Br.1.O0 - US$0.48
= not applicable
= not applicable
/  Provisional                                                                                       November 1982



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount
Loan or                                                                    (US$ Million)
Credit                                                                 (less cancellations)  Undis-
Number          Year       Borrower      Purpose                        Bank       IDA        bursed
Twelve loans and seventeen credits fully disbursed.                     108.6   195.6
Cr. 485-ET       1974       Ethiopia      Drought Areas Rehab.                     10.0            0.9
Cr. 486-ET       1974       Ethiopia      Wolaita Agriculture II                   12.0            2.1
Cr. 554-ET       1975       Ethiopia      Telecom. V(2nd tranche)                  16.0            0.5
Cr. 603-ET       1976       Ethiopia      Rangelands Dev.                          27.0           12.9
Cr. 708-ET       1977       Ethiopia      Road Sector                              32.0           14.8
Cr. 707-ET       1977       Ethiopia 1/  Revised Amibara                           25.0            8.9
Cr. 789-ET       1978       Ethiopia      Grain Storage & Mkg.                     24.0            9.9
Cr.1088-ET       1981       Ethiopia      Agric. Minimum Pkg. II                   40.0 2/        30.2
Cr.1141-ET       1981       Ethiopia      Education V                              35.0 T/        27.3
Cr.1275-ET3/    1982        Ethiopia      Agric. & Indust. Dev. Bank               30.0 '/        29.0
Total                                                   108.6   446.6          136.5
of which has been repaid                               59.9     3.1
Total now outstanding                                    48.7   443.5
Amount sold                            6.0
of which has been repaid             6.0                 -        -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                       48.7   443.5
Total Undisbursed                                         -         -           136.5
I/  US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr.418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has
been repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
2/ Credits 1088-ET, 1141-ET and 1275-ET are denominated in SDRs (SDR 32.0 million, 28.2
million, and 27.0 million, respectively).
3/ Not yet effective.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                            Type of                Amount
Year        Obligor                               Business      Loan    Equity        Total
1965        Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I          Textiles      1.5       1.0          2.5
19bb        Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.           Paper           -       1.9           1.9
19bb        -VA Metahara, S.C.                    Sugar          .-       J.-)         9.u
l9/U        Textile Mills ot Dire Dawa ll         Textiles      U.4       U.Z          U.b
19/3        Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III        Textiles      1.5       U.2           1.Z
'Total Gross Commitments                            8.9       6.8         15./
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                     8.9       4.3         13.2
lotal commitments now held by IkY                     -       2.)          Z.5
total unaisDursea



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Cr. No. 554:      Fifth Telecommunications Project (Second Tranche):
US$16.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of
Effectiveness: August 26, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind
schedule because of various difficulties, including
shortages of construction materials and certain
categories of staff, that were encountered during the
early stages of the project. In recent years,
however, the Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia
(TSE) has made concerted efforts to speed civil
works and equipment installation. The buildings for
exchange and transmission equipment have been
completed. The interurban switching equipment, the
telex exchange, and most of the transmission systems
have been installed. In addition, a comprehensive
training program has been prepared for TSE's staff.
Cr. No. 603:      Rangelands Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Credit of January 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
May 18, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is about three years behind
schedule, primarily because of security constraints,
but has improved in recent years in secure parts of
the three sub-project areas. The project
organization is well-developed and most of the
infrastructure is now in place. Range rehabilitation
and management aspects of the project are now being
implemented, and studies on livestock development and
highland rehabilitation are expected to begin in
early 1983.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 707:      Revised Amibara Irrigation Project:  US$25.0 million
Credit of November 7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
April 7, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The construction of headworks and irrigation systems
is proceeding satisfactorily, and about 90 percent of
the work has been completed. On-farm works are
progressing more slowly, but are expected to be
completed by mid-1984. Building and housing
construction is now nearing completion. About 1800
hectares were planted with cotton in the 1981/82
cropping season, and good yields were obtained.
Significant delays, however, have been experienced in
the establishment of alternative grazing areas for
the Afar people.
Cr. No. 708:      Highway Sector Project (Seventh Highway):  US$32.0
million Credit of July 5, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: October 7, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Progress in implementing the Five-Year Road Program
has been slower than expected at appraisal, but
generally satisfactory. Good progress has been made
on primary and secondary road construction.
Progress on rural road construction has been
satisfactory and improved significantly during the
past year after the new Rural Roads Organization had
become more firmly established. The training and
technical assistance components of the project are
proceeding well. However, the 100 km Mota-Bahar Dar
feeder road subproject, which is being financed by a
US$10.5 million EEC Special Action Credit (No. 34-ET)
signed on November 30, 1979, is behind schedule due
to equipment problems and shortages of construction
materials.
Cr. No.789:       Grain Storage and Marketing Project:  US$24.0 million
Credit of June 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The volume of grain storage capacity to be
constructed under the project has been reduced from
about 350,000 tons to about 200,000 tons, comprising
31 stores, to accord with available funding. The
quality of construction of stores, however, has not
been satisfactory, but corrective measures are being
taken to improve quality and to strengthen the
Agricultural Marketing Corporation's (AMC) storage
and technical management. All stores are expected



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
to be completed by early 1983. Construction of AMC's
new headquarters building is expected begin soon.
AMC's overall penetration of the cereals trade has
grown as fast as estimated at appraisal, but various
marketing and distribution problems have been
encountered and are being reviewed. The Government
has disbanded the Ethiopian Grain Agency, and has
tranferred its pricing and marketing functions to the
Ministries of Domestic Trade and Foreign Trade.
Cr. No. 1088:    Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project:  SDR
32.0 million (US$40 million equivalent) Credit of
February 2, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: September
1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Good progress is being made in establishing a
widespread network of Ministry of Agriculture offices
and staff throughout most of the arable highland
areas but a procurement problem relating to the
construction of office buildings led to a
concellation of about US$780,000 equivalent of the
IDA credit.   Procurement of vehicles and equipment
is well underway. Delays, however, have been
encountered in producing improved seeds and procuring
other inputs for the technical packages for farmers.
Some organizational difficulties have also become
apparent, and various proposals to correct them are
being examined.
Cr. No. 1141:    Fifth Education Project: SDR28.2 million (US$35
million equivalent) Credit of June 29, 1981;Date of
Effectiveness: September 24, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985.
Start-up activities have commenced as scheduled. The
construction of primary and secondary schools are in
line with appraisal estimates. The educational
aspects of the Project which consist of an evaluation
study of a new curriculum to be introduced, a
manpower survey and in-service training of school
inspectors, are well underway. Local staff of the
Project Management Office (PMO) are in post. A
Project Coordinator and consultants in accountancy
have been recruited. The PMO is functioning
effectively and prospects for successful project
implementation are good.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 1275:    Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project:
SDR 27.0 million (US$30 million equivalent) Credit of
August 27, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1990.
The credit is not yet effective. Project
implementation is just getting underway.



- 3, -
ANNEX III
ETHIOPIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:               About 20 months
(b)  Preparatiji. by:                     Ministry of Urban Development
and Housing
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:         1972
(d)  First IDA mission:                   1976
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:         October t9/8
(t)  Post-appraisal mission:              September/Uctober 1981
(g)  Negotiations:                        April Zb to iU, 19l6Z
(h)  elanned date ot eftectiveness:    April 1, 198Z
II. Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) The appointment of a Project Unit Head will be a condition for
etfectiveness (paras. 50 and 73);
(b) Assignments by the Housing and Savings Bank of a Senior
Accountant, an additional loan officer and an engineer will be
conditions for effectiveness (paras. 51 and 73);
(c) The execution of subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the
Association, with the Housing Bank and the CA, will be conditions for
effectiveness (paras. 58 and 73);
(d) Steps will be taken to improve the Housing Bank's financial
position (para. 62); and
e) The CA and the Project Unit will establish accounting and audit
systems, satistactory to the Association, as conditions for
disbursement on all items for which statements of expenditure will be
required (paras. 66 and /2).



ETHIOPIA
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                  k    .c.
ADDIS ABABA
Project   Sites
...,..,.....-...........  ..                                                                [
N
-5-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
fM---- R..\                                       1 6.\\                                                                                                                       ;
\-/ -I \ \-
.           .\                                         I                I1_ B > H .ol\. .
\      ~            ~ ~~ j\ .2,                      g               J,IRo w0SS.ICII                 \S 
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u /                                5        =
1od5.00,,A/Cosss.05c,Ia Zoses  -*                             ->_  ~     tNFSSL
_f   oery,cAd 5O es,                                                                                     _
_   MASS RoAMS*.                                                      
_ -Proposed MaSn ROAMs                                       .            
Secondary RoAMS 
-5 R,SaMIwy S\
S r dIyd thE anx ~~~~~~~~~~~. .SA                                               .                                                          0



