Document of
The World Bank                             FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2331a-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 1, 1982
Eastern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatioii.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =    Birr 2.07
Birr 1.00   =    US$0.483
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 m2                       =        10.758 ft2
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kM1ometer (km)           =        0.62 miles (mi)
1,1ectare (ha)            =        10,000 square meters (sq.m)
lhectare (ha)             =        2.47 (ac)
1 liter (1)                         0.26 US gallon (gal)
1 US gallon     3                   4 liters
1 cubic meter (m3)         =        1,000 liters or 264 US gallons
1 ld                               1 liter per capita per day
1 m /sec                            1 cubic meter per second
1 metric ton (m/ton)                2204.6 iounds (lbs.)2
1 acre                              4,048 m  = 43,548 ft
ABBREVIATIONS
AAWASA     -     Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage Authority
AIDB       -     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
CA         -     Central Association (Addis Ababa Municipality)
CBE        -     Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CPSC       -     Central Planning Supreme Council
EELPA      -     Ethiopia Electrical and Power Authority
HSB        -     Housing and Savings Bank
MUDH       -     Ministry of Urban Development and Housing
NBE        -     National Bank of Ethiopia
RHA        -     Rental Housing Administration
RPA        -     Rural Projects Agency
UDA        -     Urban Dwellers' Association
FISCAL YEAR
Govt.: July 8 - July 7
HSB:    July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Urbanization ........................................                            1 
B.   Impact  of  the Revolution  in Addis ...................                        2
C.   The Bank's Role  in  the Urban Sector .................                          7
II. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives ............................8..............                           8
B.   Description ..........................8...............                          8
C.   Design Standards  and Specifications ..................                        15
III. EXECUTING AGENCIES
A.   The Ministry  of Urban Development  and Housing .......                        20
B.   The Housing  and Savings  Bank .........................                       22
C.   Urban Dwellers'  Associations .........................                        29
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Policies ............................................                          32
B.   Implementation  Schedule .............................                         34
C.   Procurement .........................................                          34
D.   Monitoring  and Evaluation ...........................                         35
E.   Recurrent  Costs .....................................                         36
F.   Supervision .........................................                          36
V. FINANCES
A.   Costs ...............................................                          37
B.   Financing ...........................................                          37
C.   Disbursements .......................................                          40
D.   Cost Recovery/Affordability .........................                          41
E.   Financial Impact  on CA  and HSB ......................                        44
F.   Financial Covenants .................................                          44
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Rates  of Return .....................................                         45
B.   Poverty  Impact/Replicability ........................                         46
C.   Risks ...............................................                          47
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS                                     ..                                  50
This report was updated by Ms./Messrs. D. Haldane, M. Rathnam,
H. Singh  and S. Wakeham  based  on  an  original  appraisal  report  to which
Ms./Messrs. A. Nassau, D. Beckmann, C. Godavitarne and R. Cortez also
contributed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEX I:  Selected Documents Available on the Project Files
PHOGOGRAPHS
CHARTS AND TABLES
Implementation Schedule                         Chart 23448
Organization Charts:
MUDH                                         Chart 19679
HSB                                         Chart 23431
Urban Dweller's Assoc.                      Chart 19692
HSB Summary of Consolidated
Balance Sheets 1976-1981                  Table 20000
HSB Income and Expenses 1976-1981               Table 20001
HSB Projected Balance Sheets 1982-86            Table 20004
HSB Projected Income Statements 1982-86         Table 20005
HSB Projected Cash Flow 1982-1986               Table 20003
CA Budgets FY78-FY81                            Table 20002
Total Project Cash Flow 1982-1991               Table 20006
MAPS AND LAYOUTS
Ethiopia                                     IBRD 14006
Addis Ababa - Project Sites                 IBRD 14010
Nefas Silk - Site Layout                    IBRD 14007
Tekle Haimanot - Upgrading Layout           IBRD 14009
Progressive Development of Dwelling         Fig. 10001
Community Centers                           Fig. 10002



ETHI()PIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization
Growth Patterns
1.01       iJrbanization in Ethiopia might have occurred more rapidly
than it did were it not for the country's rugged terrain which has
physically restrained large-scale population movement and to its long-
standing feudal lifestyle dominated by tenant farming.   Today about
12% of its 33 million citizens reside in urban areas, principally in
the capital city of Addis Ababa.
1.02      When Addis was established by Emperor Menelik II in 1891, it
was merely the last in a series of garrison towns designed to house
and feed Ethiopia's vast armies near the shifting battlefields.   Its
location, however, proved a good one for a modern capital--centrally
positioned in the newly expanded greater Ethiopia, with abundant water
and timber and an invigorating climate.   Centralization of political
and administrative functions requiring transport links focused on
Addis, and the gradual development of industry and educational and
health and services served to promote rapid population growth. By the
mid-1950s the city had reached nearly half a million.   Today Addis
Ababa, with 1.3 million people, representing 4% of the population of
the country and nearly a third of all urban dwellers, is the largest
city in the Eastern half of Africa between Cairo and Johannesburg. It
is twice the size of the next five towns combined:  Asmara (370,000),
Dire Dawa (75,000), Harar (55,000), Nazreth (60,000) and Gondar
(70,000).
1.03       Attempts to decentralize this "primate city" growth pattern
remain in an embryonic stage, hampered by inadequate transportation
links and the general insecurity which resulted from extensive inter-
nal changes since the 1974 revolution and the country's chronic border
disputes. Although recent policy moves are designed to lessen Addis'
attraction to rural migrants and develop smaller towns as regional
focal points, these measures will take time to take effect and the
present population growth of 6.5% is expected to continue for some
time to come, doubling the size of the city in the next ten years.
1.04       Addis is a distinctive city in many respects, due in large
measure to its historic pattern of development.   Shortly after the
city was established, the Emperor awarded large land grants to his war
chiefs and men of state (Ras) who typically settled on Addis' several
hilltops with their court, relatives, war captives, and followers
grouped around.  Subsequent migrants generally attached themselves to
one of these encampments, settling in the area surrounding his resi-
dence.   This  settlement  pattern had important  ramifications on the
physical and economic development of the city.



- 2 -
1.015     First, segregation by income, social status, tribe, or race,
so common in colonially founded African cities, did not occur in
Addis.  Rich and poor have traditionally lived in an integrated land
use pattern with productive activities adjacent to mixed high- and
low-income residential areas.   Second, because landowners were omni-
present and exercised close control over their territory, squatter
communities in the usual sense of illegal landholding and self-built
homes never developed. All households have some form of land tenure,
though dwellings may not have the municipality's building permit.  A
third distinct feature of the city is that nearly two-thirds of
households rent.  The cause of this may have been the combined impact
of the dominance of land ownership by so few, and the abject poverty
of so many, leaving the majority of families without sufficient
capital to build even simple homes.  Most families had no access to
credlit because they lacked the only acceptable collateral - land.
1 .0X5      The concentration of land ownership--one feature of Addis'
growth common to many developing cities--proved an intractable issue,
and the source of much unrest as time passed.   In the early 1960s,
only 7% of the land was owned by the general populace. Nearly 60% was
owned by 2% of families, and another third was shared in approximately
equal portions by the royal family, the church, government, and
foreign embassies.   Since only property owners were allowed to vote
under the old regime, these feudal patterns of land ownership appear
to have effectively disenfranchised the low-income majority.
1 .07         Thus denied access  to the three major determinants  of
weaLth--land, credit and political influence--the vast majorty of
urban dwellers has remained severely impoverished.   Several poverty
indicators are in evidence:   only 53% of  the adult  population  is
literate, and half of school age children attend school about the same
as the national  average.   Nearly 40% of  the deaths  in Addis  are
attributable to diseases of a parasitic or digestive nature--diseases
indicative of inadequate services and poverty.
B. Impact of the Revolution in Addis
1.08       The 1974 Revolution fundamentally reordered social and eco-
nomic relationships in Ethiopia.  The new government has evidenced a
strong commitment to improve the living conditions of the poor--both
rural and urban, who constitute the majority of the population.
Three measures introduced by the new government have particularly
impacted  urban  areas:    nationalization  of  urban  land  and  rental
houses,  restructuring  of  credit  institutions,  and  changes  in  the
structure and functions of local government.
Natjionalization of Urban Land and Extra Houses
1.0'3       Land reform has been particularly rapid and dramatic.  In
1975 all urban land and "extra" (rented) houses were nationalized.
Thus, all undeveloped land and nearly two-thirds of the houses in
Addis Ababa became  state property overnight.   Individual  families,
however, continued to own their own dwelling and use rights for up to
500 m2 of land.   This reform has proven a mixed blessing.   On the
pos:itive side, rents on nationalized dwellings have generally been cut



- 3 -
in  half-increasing  family  income  available  for  other  purposes.
Previous landlords from the low- and middle-income groups whose
incomes fall below B200 receive monthly compensation payments for
their former properties.  This, of course, has generated new problems
with the shift of maintenance responsibilities onto the public sector
(para. 3.44)
1.10       Second, government ownership of urban land greatly improved
access to vacant land for house construction.  From 1976-1978 a large
number of undeveloped plots were made available and 141 cooperatives
formed to develop them.   Self-help,  however,  is not a tradition in
Addis since feudal control of land and credit prevented most people
from building for themselves, and new construction has not kept pace
with growth.
1 .11      In short, nationalization disrupted the existing system of
shelter development which depended on investment of private savings
and borrowing by a landlord class for rental dwellings, without
replacing it with a new system.   As a result, a monumental urban
housing shortage exists at all income levels partly inherited and
partly resulting from events since 1975.  Though reliable statistics
are not available, it is clear that formal sector house construction
diminished sharply.   Over the last four years new construction in
Addis totalling about 6,000 units has met only about 15%-20% of the
demand  created by annual household  growth alone.   Private housing
construction has been discouraged by the prohibition on private
renting and high building materials prices.  Despite an initial rise
in house starts centrally located vacant plots are now less abundant,
forcing builders to move further out and incur higher servicing
costs.  Recent private borrowing has been subdued.  The Ministry of
Urban Development and Housing has shown an increasing determination to
reach lower income groups and has been implementing an EEC-assisted
site and service project in nine secondary towns.  Experience gained
from this program has proven useful in designing the proposed
IDA-assisted  project.   While  construction by public agencies--both
direct and through such self-help programs--has increased, it has not
been enough to compensate for the decline in private building.
1.12        Existing housing conditions through,out the city also need
improvement.    Large  areas  are  unplanned  and  densely  populated,
averaging up to 400 persons per ha, with dwellings crowded together in
a haphazard manner.  Most homes in Addis are chicka (about 90%), a
timber frame filled with lathes and mud, straw and dung plaster.
Despite this simple construction, as noted above, there is actually
little tradition of self-help building in the capital since nearly
two-thirds of all homes were built for rental through hired labor.
Maintenance is poor and most dwellings are badly deteriorated.
1.13         Bottlenecks in the supply of certain building materials
hindered  both  new  construction  and  maintenance  in  the  years
immediately  following  the  change  of government.   As  part  of  the
post-revolutionary economic reorganization many of the larger building
materials industries were nationalized, and production dropped due to
disruptions and general insecurity.   Since 1978, however, production



- 4 -
levels  have  risen  significantly  and  are  now  reaching  existing
capacity.   Cement supply for instance, which reached a low ebb when
the Asmara factory was no longer accessible, has notably eased, and a
large new factory is under construction which would double tlae
existing capacity by 1986. Transportation shortages--acute during the
Eritrean and Ogaden hostilities--have  also  improved.    Traditional
building  materials,   however,   have  become  increasingly  scarce.
Replanting of eucalyptus trees, used extensively for traditional
chicka houses, fell off after the revolution, and transportation
shortages accentuated the problem.   Though replanting programs are
evident in Addis and are being initiated elsewhere, they have not yet
produced sufficient results to satisfy demand, resulting in sharp
price escalation over the last few years in all eucalyptus products.
Therefore, while the overall situation has eased somewhat, shortages
still exist in particular commodities and many factories appear to be
nearing  their  present  capacity.    Potential  project-related  risks
arising from a building materials shortage are discussed in paragraph
6.16.
1.14           Deficiencies  in  urban  services  and  particularly  in
maintenance  operations  were  also  inherited  from  the  previous
government.   Sanitation is perhaps the city's most critical problem.
Over half of all households in Addis have no toilet facilities at all,
either private or shared, resulting in the indiscriminate use of
drains, open spaces and watercourses where people also wash (see
photos).  Another 25% share pit latrines with other families.  Addis'
first sanitary sewer system is now under construction for the central
commercial areas and perhaps 15% of the higher income population.
Waterborne sanitation, however, will remain unaffordable to the vast
majority of households for some time to come.   These already poor
environmental     conditions  are  exacerbated  by  inadequate  refuse
collection,  particularly  in  low-income  areas.    Municipal  refuse
vehicles,  which  service  only  about  70% of  the population,  suffer
endemic maintenance problems resulting in as many as 30% of the fleet
being inactive at any given time.  Refuse vehicles often never reach
densely populated areas because roads are impassable or non-existent.
Refuse collected by the municipality is dumped at a landfill located
about 10 km from the city center which is operated as a crude
unsanitary dump without spreading or earth cover.   The majority of
solid waste is not collected by the municipality and is dumped in the
open resulting in blocked drains, scavenging, and very unsanitary
conditions.
1.15      Access to utilities such as water and electricity, however,
is not as poor as in some African cities, though facilties may be
shared by several hundred families, and consumption levels are low.
The Bank has been assisting the Addis Ababa Water and Sewerage
Authority (AWASA) in the expansion of the city's water supply with a
US$10.8 million loan for a project (Loan No. 818-ET) completed in
1977. Two additional Bank-assisted projects over the past 10-15 years
have  helped  expand  the  country's  hydroelectric  facilities  and
associated transmission lines (Loan Nos. 375-ET and 596-ET).



- 5-
Restructuring of Credit Institutions
1.16         In addition to major reforms in land policy,  the revolution
brought a restructuring of credit institutions in 1976 to streamline
operations.  eliminate  areas  of  overlap,   and  redirect  benefits  to
lower-income people. One board now governs all of the five major financial
institutions.  Of these, three are of particular interest in urban areas.
Two housing finance institutions were merged into a new Housing and Savings
Bank (HSB), which was given exclusive responsibiLity for mortgage lending
and instructed to relax requirements in order to lend to the general
population.   At  about  the  same time the Handicraft  and Small Industry
Development  Agency  (HASIDA)  was  established   to  register  technical
assistance  to  small  productive  enterprises,  and  the  Agricultural  and
Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) was instructed to begin lending to small
businesses.
1.17             These  three  institutions  (AIDB,  HASIDA  and  HSB)  now
givepreference to cooperative entities through which they intend to reach
low-income  groups.    This  reflects  in  part  government's  ideological
preference  for  group  ventures,  and  in  part  the  greater  presumed
administrative  efficiency  of  dealing  with  groups  rather  than  with
individuals to reach larger numbers of people.   The new cooperative law
gives cooperatives considerable leeway in decision-making and is less
restrictive than in some countries.
1.18           The  initial  refocusing  of the  general  policies  of  these
institutions to serve the "broad masses" is now largely in place, though
actual performance in some cases lags.   The HSB initially began to move
down in the income curve, serving a larger proportion of those below the
90th  percentile  and  even  a  few  in  the  poorer  half.    However,  the
"affordability  crunch"  created  by  high  inflation  and  erosion  in real
incomes over the past few years, together with the decline in easily
serviced  land has  stalemated  this  initial  progress  (para.  3.13).   The
HASIDA successfully launched operations and has built up a qualified staff
to offer technical assistance to small-scale enterprises, but has
encountered constraints in the reluctance of private investors to start new
businesses, and their difficulty in obtaining credit, particularly foreign
exchange.   Lending by AIDB  to small-scale enterprises remains overall a
small element in the portfolio.   About 25 such loans were made in 1980,
with an average loan size of B33,000 (US$16,000).   This trend, however,
shows an increase since its inception six years ago.
1.19       A recently approved IDA-supported project is expected to bolster
these beginnings by strengthening AIDB's delivery of credit and technical
assistance at the smaller scale end of their operations.  The AIDB project
will complement the urban project by providing credit and technical support
to   businesses    some   of   which   are   expected   to   occupy   the
commercial/industrial  sites  developed  under  the  proposed  project.    In
addition, HASIDA has been receiving technical aid in the form of study
tours and personnel from India on a bilateral bas:is.



- 6-
Changes in Local Government
1.20          The third major  change  affecting urban areas  was  the
establishment of the new Urban Dwellers' Associations, which replaced
the former municipality.   This three-tiered organization constitutes
the urban grassroots link in the government's effort to decentralize
decision-making and increase local participation in development.
Under this system, Addis Ababa is divided into 289 "Kebeles" or local
neighborhood associations, 25 Higher Associations, and one Central
Association (CA)--the former municipality. Representatives to all the
associations are to be elected every two years. Although former large
property owners were disenfranchised for several years, they, too,
were eligible to vote in the June 1981 elections.   The associations
are charged with broad responsibilities in housing management and
general  community  development  (paras.  3.41-3.51).         Despite  the
complexity and difficulties of initiating such a major reform, to date
the associations have been reasonably successful in organizing and
managing their responsibilities.
Impact: on Incomes
1.21         Despite these impressive achievements and the depth and
scope of change, on the whole real incomes in Addis appear to have
fallen since the revolution, and the situation of the urban poor has
actually deteriorated.  Government imposed a virtual freeze on upper
income salaries several years ago, but has allowed modest annual
increments to lower-level salaries of 4%-7%.  As a result, the urban
income distribution curve in Addis shows a slight bunching of the
population into the middle ranks (between B50 and B200 (US$29-$97))
per month per household and a decline in the proportion of the
population above and below these figures.   Inflation,  however,  has
continued at an annual rate of about 10%-15%, cutting real incomes
virtually in half over the past five years.   While this erosion in
affordability reflects a world-wide trend, it has been particularly
acute in Ethiopia. Current estimates indicate over three quarters of
Addis households have incomes below the absolute urban poverty
threshold of US$186 per capita per annum or B170 per household per
month.  This represents nearly 190,000 households and is expected to
grow to 240,000 by project completion.
1.22       Government has dealt with inflation in part through price
control, resulting in some degree of stockpiling and the outright un-
availability of certain goods. Reduced rents have eased the situation
for some, but the extreme housing shortage has compelled many families
to overcrowd existing units and others to pay an excessively high
price for hotel accommodation. Mobility between neighborhoods is low,
which has ultimately resulted in higher transport costs as people
cannot find accommodation near their work, or has alternatively kept
them from taking better jobs.



C. The Bank's Role in the Urban Sector
1.23        In sum, it is clear that the 1974 revolution significantly
transformed policies and institutions dealing with land, finance and
local  government  in particular.   These  changes,  together with  the
cessation in border hostilities, have led to impressive gains with
GNP growth averaging nearly 5%. To date, however, by design the rural
population has understandably been the major beneficiary of these
accomplishments and urban residents have yet to feel significant
tangible results in the form of improved reaL incomes and living
standards.
1.24        This gap will be felt more keenly in the coming decade.
Even with successful rural and agricultural programs, continued urban
growth would nearly double Ethiopia's urban popu'Lation in the next ten
years assuming urban growth remains as high as that of the last ten
years. Urban dwellers would comprise nearly 20%, of the population by
the year 2000.   Some studies in fact indicate accelerated rates of
urbanization in contexts where rural development programs are working
well.  Even if growth were to be cut in half, another two million
people will have to be fed, housed and employed in urban areas.  This
represents  nearly  two more  cities  the  size  of  Addis.    The  vast
majority of these people are now and will continue to be poor.
Policies and institutions must be developed to cope with this growth,
and hopefully begin to improve overall living conditions.
1.25       The legal and administrative frameworlc to guide this growth
is now largely in place--an impressive achievement in itself--and
government has begun to focus on initiating programs to cope with pro-
jected growth and to more equitably distribute the benefits of hard-
won economic gains.
1.26      New systems for land development and housing finance in par-
ticular must supplant the traditional rental system so severely dis-
rupted and restructured by the revolution.  Government recognizes it
has neither the manpower nor the financial resources to undertake the
role of landlord for the entire urban populace.  These new systems
must therefore be based on large-scale, low cost shelter construction
by owner-occupiers rather than landlord-built rental units. Standards
must be affordable to the urban population and to the Ethiopian
economy.   Such a transformation relies on the emergence of a wide-
spread desire for homeownership, as well as direct popular participa-
tion in the construction process by families themselves, most of whom
have no prior experience or tradition of self-help.  The challenge of
rebuilding Ethiopia's urban shelter delivery system on these new foun-
dations is obviously both formidable and urgent.
1.27        Bank strategy in the urban sector will focus initially on
assisting government to rebuild its housing finance system. Land ser-
vicing and development form an integral part of this system. A second
important focus of our overall approach will be the preservatiion and
more efficient use of existing municipal services and shelter.
Strengthening existing institutions, both financially and profession-
ally, will be a key element of this overall strategy.   The proposed
project is an important first step in the urban sector towards achiev-
ing these goals.  The constraints, however, are real, and the project
is intended to help initiate the process rather than resolve the
problem.



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01       The project's major objective will be to rebuild the volume
of investment and capital formation in shelter, including strength-
ening of the land transfer system.   A new, more resource efficient
policy will guide this process based on modest standards, self-help
and individual initiative, thus easing the burden on public finances.
The focus is therefore not exclusively on the urban poor. The Housing
and Savings Bank will play a central role in this effort, and their
financial and professional strengthening constitutes a major objective
of the project. The project will also (a) improve health and
environmental conditions through upgraded services and sanitation,
which   should   ultimately   improve   productivity   within   affected
populations,(b) review current policies and practices on maintenance
of urban infrastructure and housing with a view to ultimately reducing
rent subsidies and improving the efficiency of public resource
utilization,and (c) strengthen two other key urban institutions
dealing with land: the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing
(MUDH), and the Central Association (Addis Municipality).   A measure
of increased employment should also result from stimulation of the
housing construction industry.
B. Description
2.02        The project will focus primarily on Addis Ababa with small
initial components in secondary towns and includes both development of
serviced sites for self-help house construction for those above the
65th percentile of the urban income curve and upgrading of environmen-
tal conditions  for those below.   During preparation, standards and
servicing levels were pared to an absolute minimum to meet the limited
payment capacity of the urban poor, which further deteriorated over
the last three years.  The overall size of the project has also been
scaled back as a result of a reassessment of implementation capacity
which in turn reflects the Bank's emerging experience with first proj-
ects in the urban sector.   The project therefore focuses on providing
no more than the bare essentials in services on only two sites, with
the majority of project funds devoted to house loans for living space
which, unlike services, can be tailored to recipients incomes, and is
an expressed priority to many lower income families.  Services can be
improved over time.  The four specific components of the project are
shown in Table II-l.



- 9 -
Table II- 1
COMPONENTS
Amount
Including
Item                            Contingencies   Percent
(B'000)     Total Cost
Site Development and Servicing
Serviced sites                                   2,900           5%
Upgrading                                        3,256           6%
Commercial/Industrial Extensions                   180           -
Solid Waste                                      1,000           2%
Maintenance                                      2,373           4%
Subtotal          9,709          17%
Construction Loans                                34,212          60%
Kebele Development Fund
Primary Schools                                    873           2%
Community Centers and Markets                    2,018           3%
Pilot Development Fund                             651           1%
Subtotal          3,542           6%
Institutional Development
Project Management                               6,810          12%
Training and Advisory Services                   1,440           2%
Studies:  Urban Transport                          392           1%
Maintenance                              520           1%
Future Project Preparation              618           1%
Subtotal          9,780          17%
TOTAL            57,243         100%
Site Development and Servicing Component
2.03        The Ministry (MUDH) will develop 2,950 serviced plots for
residential, commercial and industrial use and improve one major
existing settlement and existing homes in Nefas Silk representing to-
gether another 9,000 families.
2.04       Upgrading:  Improved roads, additional water outlets, storm
drainage and pit latrines will be provided for about 8,200 households
occupying 100 ha in Tekle Haimanot, a part of the major and most con-
gested commercial center of Addis, and another 800 households in Nefas
Silk. Densities in Tekle Haimanot are extremely high with half of all
families living in a single room. Major roads which are badly deteri-
orated, roughly stoned or unsurfaced will be resurfaced, using exist-
ing stone wherever possible.   Existing secondary roads will be left
unsurfaced but will be given a suitable base. A reserve for footpaths
will be established where possible, but footpath construction is not
included in the project. The number of water taps will be increased to
bring the servicing level from the present 600 households per stand-
pipe  of two taps to about 100.   Storm drainage will be improved.
Loans  for  pit  latrines  will  be  available  at  about  one  per



- 10 -
four families; individual facilities appear impractical due to poor
soil conditions and the limited payment capacity of residents.  Since
nearly everyone now has electricity, no further improvements are pro-
posed.  Families now living in the Nefas Silk area will be serviced
with similar amenities, and with electricity.
2.05       Serviced Residential Sites:  Approximately 2,700 units will
be developed on 130 ha in Nefas Silk, about 6 km southeast of the city
center along the Debre Zeit highway, an important industrial and ser-
vice center for Addis where many factory workers reside.   As noted
above, about 800 families have already settled on a small portion of
the area which will be incorporated into the site plan.  Services will
include roads, storm drainage, communal water standpipes, pit la--
trines, security lighting, refuse collection points, and electricity.
With respect to roads, the first 1,000 m of access road will be sur-
faced up to a bus turnaround point in the middle of the site; the rest
of the main road and all secondary roads will be unsurfaced but with
base and subbase to improve their durability.  Reserves for footpaths
would be provided although actual construction would be left to the
residents. Water and sanitation improvements involve provision of one
communal standpipe with two taps for about every 50 households.
Individual or shared pit latrines will be built through construction
loans (para.2.23).   Solid waste collection points are identified in
the design, and collection drums will be purchased by each community.
Finally, simple security lighting will be provided along major and
secondary roads with individual electrical connections left optional.
2.06        Commercial/Industrial Sites:  A total of 650 plots in the
Nefas Silk area will be available for potential commercial or small
industrial use. About 400 of these will be dual-use plots (non-pover-
ty group residential/business) and are fully integrated into the resi-
dential area.   These have been included among the 2,700 residential
plots.   Another 250 plots will be within specific small industrial
zones occupying 12 ha. (Figure 10000).   These will comprise larger
plots of up to 1,000 m2 developed along the major Debre Zeit Road in
Nefas Silk where industrial activity is already evident, and smaller
plots of 160-500 m2 in small industrial zones adjacent to market areas
within the sites.  The businesses established on larger plots are ex-
pected to serve both the project site and the surrounding residential
areas. Usage of smaller plots will probably be of a more mixed resi-
dential/business nature.  All business plots will be serviced to the
same standards as the rest of the site but are positioned so as to
have immediate access to individual water and electrical connections.
Funds are provided under the project for these extensions. Technical
assistance and credit for workshop construction, working capital,
tools and equipment will be provided under the recently approved AIDB
Project (Credit 1275-ET).
2.07      Solid Waste Equipment:  Four refuse collection vehicles, one
loader, and one dozer as well as spare parts will be purchased for the
Central Association to supplement the present fleet, of a type accept-
able to IDA.  The non-compaction collection trucks have been selected
because of continuing maintenance problems with the city's five com-
paction trucks and also because the compaction models are not



- 11 -
needed for the relatively simple, inexpensive, and labor-intensive
system proposed.  Equipment specifications will be reviewed again af-
ter results of the ongoing Solid Waste Study financed by the UNDP and
executed by the Bank are known.
2.08      Maintenance:  Funds will be provided for resealing, patching
and general repairs for roads under the project and for several major
roads in Addis to preserve existing investment. These will complement
the training and studies being undertaken under the project to
strengthen the City's maintenance operations (paras. 2.14 and 2.17).
Construction Loans Component
2.09      All dwelling construction in serviced sites will be by self-
help or small informal contractors arranged by participants.  No con-
tractor-built core unit will be provided.   The Housing and Savings
Bank (HSB) will extend optional loans for homes, services and pit la-
trines.    Loans  will  cover  costs  of  skilled  labor  as  well  as
materials.   Technical assistance will be provided by MUDH.  Partici-
pant:s will be able to borrow amounts commensurat.e with their repayment
capacity up to a maximum debt service of 25% of monthly income.  To-
gether with recurrent utility costs, the maximum housing-related ex-
penditure allowed will be about 30% of total income.  During negotia-
tiorns, it was confirmed that families will be allowed to build
dwellings in a range of sizes and materials commensurate with their
capacity to pay.  The Ministry will offer a number of standard house
designs which  can be built  in phases.   Average loan amounts will
typically range from about B2,200 to B3,500 (US$1,100 to US$1,700) for
1-2 rooms for 70% of participants, and B12,000 (US$5,800) for the 30%
from middle/upper income groups.   Since nearly  two-thirds  of Addis
households now rent, and will have no salvaged building materials or
proceeds from the sale of another house, nearly all beneficiaries in
serviced site areas are expected to take loans.  Sufficient funds are
provided for 15% of families to have a one room (11m2) unit plus kit-
chen and latrine, 55% to have two rooms (21m2) plus kitchen and la-
trine, and the remaining 30% four rooms (42m2) plus amenities, re-
flecting estimated demand.
2.10      Loan funds will also be available for upgrading about 20% of
existing units in Tekele Haimanot at an average cost of B1,500
(US$725) per household, provision of pit latrines at a ratio of one
out of four families, and for self-help upgrading or new dwelling con-
struction by families in urban areas outside the four project sites at
or below the urban poverty line of B 170 per household per month.
This fund broadens the project's impact beyond the capital city, and
will help the HSB to extend mortgage credit facilities to lower-income
households in these areas.  These loans will be extended through the
normal departmental structure of the HSB's branch operations, under
central office supervision. Most will be in amounts between B2,000 to
B3,500 (US$1,000-1,700) per family, approval authority for which will
be vested in branch management.  Eligibility criteria, loan documenta-
tion and disbursement/control procedures are described in paras.
4.08-4.09.   About 56% of  the total construction loan fund will be
utilized by families below the absolute poverty line.



- 12) 
Kebele Development Fund Component
2.11         A loan fund will be made available to kebeles or Higher
Associations for the following purposes:
(a)  optional community facilities in project areas such as com-
munity centers, primary schools including furniture and
equipment, and markets.  Facilities are optional since reci-
pients will have to pay for them (para.5.07). Provision has
been made for 5 community centers, 6 schools of eight class-
rooms each, improvement of existing facilities, and 100
market stalls in areas where demand is greatest.  The level
of school provision would maintain current Addis attendance
ratios for project areas of about one student per 6.5 popu-
lation or one classroom of 45-50 students per 325 popula-
tion, but would not allow for any increase.   Land will be
reserved for future schools to improve overall attendance
ratios.  No health clinics are proposed because of the cur-
rently high service standard in Addis relative to other
areas, and because government has indicated it would be un-
able to staff and maintain such facilities; and
(b)  a pilot development fund for improvements of infrastructure,
replacement or construction of rental dwellings or other de-
velopment activities in kebeles throughout Addis.  Improve-
ments will be undertaken through small, manageable projects
commensurate with each association's capacity to administer
and repay the loan. The CA will review and approve specific
projects before referring the application to HSB.   During
negotiations it was confirmed that IDA will review and ap-
prove the first four loans under the Kebele Development Fund
and that subsequent loans will conform to criteria satisfac-
tory to IDA.   Standard designs will be available or kebeles
may prepare their own.   Associations will be required to
raise at least 10% of the project cost to ensure their
commitment.    The  major  objectives  of  the  fund  are  to
strengthen maintenance and improvement in other kebeles, to
establish credit facilities for such projects and to intro-
duce the principle of cost recovery.   The fund will also
provide a practical means of applying the planning, imple-
mentation and management skills learned through the kebele
seminar program.  Improvement loans would justify increased
kebele revenues through higher rents or other charges which
are essential if the  large proportion of rental dwellings
now under kebele management are to be properly maintained.
The fund will therefore complement the proposed CA mainte-
nance study.
Institutional Development Component
2.12      A major focus of this first project in the urban sector will
be the strengthening of the Housing Bank.  Additional efforts will be
directed to MUDH and the CA.   This component involves provision for
project management, staff training, advisory services, studies, and
further capitalization of the HSB (see para. 3.38), which will be done
through adjustment of onlending rates.



- 13 -
2.13      Project Management:  Units will be created or staff assigned
to manage the project in MUDH, the HSB and the CA (see Chapter III for
details). Costs of staff salaries, equipment and operating costs are
included.
2.14      Training:  Staff training is an integral part of the institu-
tional development effort, and will include:
(a) short courses: for key individuals in the management of ur-
ban growth, urban finance, housing management and mainte-
nance, and maintenance of urban roads and drainage;
(b)  management skills seminars:   covering personnel management,
time management and supervision of operations will be held
for key staff of the three agencies involved in the project,
and will be open to participation from other urban agencies,
in particular those implementing Bank-assisted projects.
Two seminars will be held for one week each, with one subse-
quent week of followup consultations with individual agen-
cies. Such courses will simultaneously focus on training of
local trainers who could continue such training and provide
the longer-term followup essential to achieving lasting re-
sults;
(c) kebele seminars on housing maintenance: these seminars would
focus on exchanges of techniques, costs and policies for the
management and maintenance of rental housing representing
two thirds of Addis' housing stock; and
(d) study tours: two visits are planned to other East African
countries involved in similar projects to exchange exper-
iences and review different techniques for dealing with the
design, implementation and maintenance of projects of this
type.   Details of the staff training program are available
in  the  project  file  and  will  be  discussed  with  the
Association before implementation.
2.15        Agencies benefitting from training, the number of people
trained and total man-months are summarized in Table II-2.   A full
time training officer will be assigned within MUDH's project unit to
formulate the detailed program and oversee implementation.  Funds are
included for short-term consultancy assistance in designing the
scheme.  Local or regional courses will be used wherever suitable.



- 14 -
Table II-2
TRAINING
No. People  Total              Agencies
Description         Trained      Staff months  Benefitting
Short Courses
- Urban growth management            2             6       CA, MUDH, HSB
- Urban finance                      2             6       CA, MUDH, HSB
- Housing management/maintenance   2               6       CA, RHA
- Infrastructure maintenance         8            24       CA
Subtotal                    14            42
Management Skills Seminars             60            30      estimated 12
Housing Maintenance/Management
Seminars                              60            15       CA, Kebeles,
RHA
Study Tours                           12             6       HSB, CA,
MUDH, CPSC
Min.Finance,
AAWASA
TOTAL                    146            93
2.16        Advisory Services:  Short term advisory services totalling
24 staff months are provided during implementation for investigation
of special operational problems or for monitoring/elevation reviews.
Preference will be given individual consultants (local or external)
with demonstrated training abilities as well as professional skills.
In addition, 48 staff months of advisory services be provided to help
launch the private commerical production of new building materials be-
ing studied by MUDH and others.  An operational fund will complement
the technical assistance to facilitate production startup, and loan
funds would be available to enterprises under the parallel Bank-
assisted IDF project.
2.17        Studies:  In addition, three studies are planned, costs of
which total B1.5 (US$ 0.7) million:
(a)  Urban Transport:  under this study the Central Association
will investigate alternatives for improving urban transpor-
tation in Addis and means for implementing recommended ac-
tions. First a survey will be made of present and projected
land use patterns in Addis, as well as the utilization of
all modes of travel (bus, auto, taxi, walking etc.).   From
this data base, a description of the current and probable
future demand for public transport would be prepared, iden-
tifying volumes, major corridors, crosstown movements, etc.
and the public transport service network required to service



- 15 -
this demand would be developed.   Thereafter,  alternatives
for providing for this demand will be explored, including
various mixed mode systems.   Recommendations will be made
based  on  investment  costs,  infrastructure  requirements,
operating costs including fuel and maintenance, and institu-
tional and regulation requirements;   about 30 staff-months
have been provided for this study, of which 6 staff-months
represent local advisors, 12 external advisors and 12 sup-
port staff, at a cost of about B390,000 (US$190,000)
(b)  Maintenance  of  Roads  and  Rental  Hlousing:    the  Central
Association will conduct a review of maintenance needs and
operations for urban roads, drainage and rental housing un-
der its jurisdiction. The review will include an assessment
of needs, the extent and manner in which these needs are be-
ing met, and the organization, staffing and financing of
these operations. Recommendations will be developed to help
the city more effectively meet these obligations now and in
the future.  The study will dovetail  with elements of the
training program focusing on maintenance.  About 36 staff-
months are included, of which 18 are for external advisors
and 18 for local support staff; the study would cost
B520,000 (US$250,000).
(c)  Future  Project  Preparation:    another  24 external  staff-
months are included for preparation of a second urban proj-
ect to further develop the upgrading and self-help shelter
program on a national basis and to continue the long-term
goal of strengthening of the three key institutions.   The
task would be carried out in close conjunction with local
staff implementing this first project, and would cost about
B620,000 (US$300,000).
2.18       A total of 135 staff months is included in the project for
advisory services for training, implementation assistance, and stud-
ies, of which provision has been made for 81 to be externally recruit-
ed.   Consultants utilized under the project will be employed under
terms and conditions satisfatory to IDA and terms of reference for
studies and major technical assistance will be developed in consulta-
tion with IDA.   Government will enable the Association to comment on
the results and recommendations of studies carried out under the pro-
ject.    Staff-month  costs  for  external  advisory  services  average
$10,250 for fees and subsistence excluding travel estimated at $2,300
per trip. Local services average $850 per month for fees only.
C. Design Standards and Specifications
2.19      To meet the severe affordability constraints  in Ethiopia,
building standards are minimal, but designed for progressive improve-
ment over time.  Project standards represent in all cases a signifi-
cant improvement over existing conditions and the circumstances under
which families would otherwise have been living without the project.



- 16 -
Layouts
2.20      Both Serviced site and upgrading layouts maximize the reten-
tion of existing structures.       A central spine road layout has been
used in Nefas Silk to reduce road lengths, and all plots front onto
roads or footpaths. Footpaths also act as reserves for the introduc-
tion of future services and may be used for additional drainage chan-
nels where necessary.  Larger open areas have been reserved for commu-
nity facilities.   Small business and commercial zones are positioned
along major access and internal roads where such activities are likely
to occur.
2.21      About 70% of serviced plots will be 160 m2 and 30% of vary-
ing sizes up to 250 m2 to achieve a balanced community of mixed-income
families.  Previous Ministry regulations designating a 200 m2 minimum
plot size have been amended in response to the project.  Assuming a
33% coverage, plots of 160 m2 will accommodate a house of 53 m2 in-
cluding pit latrine and, if desired, a separate kitchen. Private al-
locable area totals about 60% of the site, circulation 15%, community
facilities and open space 25%.
On-Site Infrastructure
2.22       As noted above, overall standards are quite low by interna-
tional comparisons reflecting the payment capacity of project partici-
pants.   Servicing  standards  for roads,  footpaths,  drainage,  water,
sanitation, electricity and solid waste are shown in Table II-3.
2.23      Sanitation:  Loan funds for pit latrines will be provided on
an individual or shared basis depending on soil conditions, space
availability and family income.  Individual latrines may be centrally
located in groups of four or--if residents prefer--placed on each
plot. There have been problems in Addis with the collapse, flooding,
and impermeability of some pits.   It may therefore be necessary to
avoid certain locations or to provide drainage. Various experimental
designs will be tried in the project under the direction of project
unit engineers utilizing the results of a study to be carried out by
AAWASA.  Models will be built and plot holders will be advised on the
most suitable type of latrine for particular soils and costs and pro-
vided with technical assistance in construction.  Pit dimensions are
expected to give a life of about 5-10 years. A reserve will be pro-
vided for possible future installation of piped services.
Dwellings
2.24        All house construction will be through self-help and small
contractors, with designs and technical assistance from MUDH and cons-
truction loans from HSB.  Most houses (70%) will be an expandable 1-2
room core. Experience with the EEC-assisted self-help program indi-
cates that the majority of demand is for 2-room units of concrete
block construction with a separate traditional kitchen and pit la-
trine, and an electrical connection. Chicka (mud) construction is also
feasible but because costs of eucalyptus framing have increased



ETIItOPiA
Urban Development Project
Table 11-3
SERVICING STANDARDS
Electricity
Circulation                                                                                                      Security Lighting
Site              Main Roads                Secondary Roads        Footpaths            Drainage              Water                    Sanitation             House Connections            Refuse
Nefas Silk        Access through spine   Unsurfaced service  None: (reserve             One trapezoidal    One communal stand-   Pit latrines,               1  KV high tension            200 liter capacity oil
Serviced          road, with first           culs-de-sac of        generally for 4m  open earth               pipe of 2 taps each   (individual or            lines and 380/220 V          drums at collection
Site              section of 1,000 m         13 m right-of-way   right-of-way and   channel on each    for 44 hh; pipe                 shared) to be          low tension lines,           points on main and
surfaced with double   with 7 m bases           2 o width to be    side of main            sizes designed for    built with                and transformers              secondary roads (pro-
seat, bitumen spray    generally, 30 cm    built by                   and secondary        consumption 50 lcd    construction              along nain and               vided by comrunity)
and aggregate to bus   subbase of red           residents)            roads, average       and 60% eventual         loan                   secondary roads only;         collection by kebeles;
turnaround; 15 m         ash on compacted                            depth 50 cm,          individual connec-                              security lighting of         and by non-compaction
r      * right-of-way, 8 m          subgrade and 15 cm                         invert width          tions.  Peak flow                               100 watt incl. lamps         municipal trucks
base, 6 a surfacing;   crushed basalt                                 30 cm and side       2 x average                                     at 60 m intervals,            assumed generation
red ash subbase 30 cm; aggregate                                      slopes of 450;                                                       main and secondary            165 gcd
15 cm crushed basalt                                                  combination                                                          roads only; designed
aggregate base; no                                                    pipe and box         No trunk mains                                  for consumption of
trunk roads requtred                                                  culverts; no         required                                        0.5 KW4 per hh.
culverts at                                                          Individual connections
access to plot                                                       to be secured by hh;
groups; drain-                                                       no trunk lines
age to river                                                         required
Tekle Haimanot   15 m right-of-way           Unsurfaced right-   Same as serviced   Same as serviced   Commumnal standpipes   Same as normal                  None                          Same as serviced
Upgrading         wIll vary to suit          of-way generally      sites; 4 m right-  sites except one   of 2 taps per 100 hh; sites (sharing                                               sites
ecisting conditions;   13 m but may vary   of-way may vary    ditch to be                  installationi of 80    may be more
major access roads        to suit existing      to suit existing   stone-lined as          additional stanid-       extensive due
surtaced with double   conditions; base    ;onditions                 atone exists on    pipes to  achieve          to spac, -oil
seal bitumen spray        of 5.5 m width;                             site and area        maximum walking dis-  and water table
and aggregate over        where stone                                 has erosion          tance of 100 m; no    constraints)
scarified and com-        surfacing exists                            problem.  Sizes    extension of exist-
pacted existing           Improvement will                            may vary par         ing mains which are
stone base to form        be made.                                    existing condi-    sized for 35%    -
20 cm subbase and                                                     tions, piped         eventual individual
15 cm base crushed                                                    drainage along       connections
basalt aggregate,                                                     certain badly
8 m base, 6 m                                                         eroded channels
surfacing; no trunk                                                   with steep
roads                                                                 slopes
_ _~~~~ _ _____                             __                     __                       __                    __                                     _



- 18 -
sharply and because it has a shorter life--and therefore amortization
period--monthly payments are actually higher than those for concrete
block units. Unit costs average B 2,200 (US$1,000), B 3,500 (US$1,700)
and B 12,000 (US$5,800), respectively for one room, two room and four
room units.   All units are capable  of progressive expansion  (Fig.
10001). Three types of first phase dwellings are described below.
House Type A                               A simple, expandable one-room
One room hollow concrete               unit without plastering,ceilings
block, kitchen, pit latrine            or floor.   Stone foundation and
(11 m2 room)                           steps, corrugated iron roof of 32
B2,200 (US$1,000)                      guage,  skilled  labor  included,
electrical installation included.
Labor for production of blocks to
be provided by selfhelp.
House Type B                           About  double  the  room  space  of
Two room chicka,                       Type  A,  stone  foundation  and
kitchen and pit latrine                 steps, eucalyptus framing, corru-
(22 m2 room area)                      gated  iron  roof  sheets  of  32
B3,300 (US$1,600)                      guage,  skilled labor, and elec-
trical connections.   No floor or
ceilings; the cheapest type of
door and window. The heavy esca-
lation in wood prices brings the
cost of chicka very close to that
for hollow concrete block (Type
C).
House Type C                            Similar in construction to Type A
Two room hollow concrete               for the additional room area, and
block kitchen, pit latrine,            purchased concrete blocks rather
(22 m2 room area)                      than self-made.   Kitchen and pit
B3,500 (US$1,700)                      latrine made of chicka as under
Type A, and the cheapest type of
door and window; still no floor
or ceilings.
Community Facilities
2.25       All community facilities will be optional and tailored to
the specific needs of each settlement. See para.4.17 for staffing,
operating and maintenance costs.
2.26       Community Centers:   Community centers (Fig. 10002) provide
space for womens' associations, day care services, student libraries,
kebele shops, minor tribunal courts, rent and utilities collections,
production cooperatives, as well as for general kebele administration.
In new serviced site areas, housing cooperatives might also use the
facility as a materials store during initial construction, enabling
them to buy in bulk and avoid the price escalation associated with in-
cremental construction. Centers will typically be a simple hall with a
corrugated iron roof, concrete floor slab and either stabilized mud



- 19 -
brick, chicka or hollow concrete block walls. Smaller spaces for
classrooms, meeting rooms, offices, etc., would complement the main
hall. Sanitation facilities would generally consist of four pit la-
trines. Kebeles will select whichever combination of spaces and stand-
ards they need and can afford, using standard designs if desired.The
Ministry will approve final designs.   Funds are included in the pro-
ject for one center for each kebele of approximately 500-800 house-
holds, totalling five centers at an estimated cost of B95,000
(US$45,900) each and for the upgrading of seven existing centers in
Tekle Haimanot, at about B10,000 (US$4,800) each.
2.27        Primary Schools:   Primary schools will be of the standard
Rural Projects Agency (RPA) design used in IDA-assisted education pro-
jects. Standards of the four-room modular units currently provided by
the RPA are modest; each is estimated to cost about B 93,000
(US$45,000)including site works, equipment and furniture, or $110 per
student place. Classrooms would be grouped to form units of eight.
Single sessions are provided for in view of the greater administrative
demands of double sessions, but kebeles will be advised of the poten-
tial financial advantages of double sessions at the time of school
construction. Most school sites will be located adjacent to other pub-
lic areas and would share sports areas and open spaces.
2.28       Markets: Two types of covered market stalls will be built.
The first will be a 4m x 3m stall costing about B600 (US$290) per m2,
or B 7,200 (US$3,500) each. About 80 such units will be developed by
the Central Association. Another 20 units of a more inexpensive design
will also be developed consisting of a large "gulet" shed of 24m x 6m
dimensions at a cost of B150 (US$73) per m2, or B21,600 (US$10,400)
per shed. Market spaces will be rented by the CA and will strengthen
municipal revenues (see para.5.09).



- 20 -
III. EXECUTING AGENCIES
3.01        Primary responsibility for project implementation will be
borne by the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (MUDH) which
will prepare designs and tender documents, supervise construction,
select plotholders and provide technical assistance in dwelling con-
struction.  The Housing and Savings Bank (HSB) will extend construc-
tion loans to cooperatives or individuals who will build their own
homes  through  self-help,  and will manage collections.   Kebeles or
Higher Associations will construct, operate, and maintain community
facilities, and the Central Association, AAWASA and EELPA will main-
tain roads and drainage, water and electrical infrastructure, respec-
tively.
3.02       A Coordination Committee will be formed to coordinate proj-
ect implementation consisting of standing representatives from MUDH,
HSB, CA, EELPA, and AAWSA. Other institutions would be invited to the
meetings as needed.  The establishment of this Committee  was   con-
firmed at negotiations.
A.  A Ministry of Urban Development and Housing (MUDH)
Functions
3.03      Since the 1974 revolution, the Ministry's role has been con-
siderably expanded. A recent reorganization, however, hived off pub-
lic works into a new Ministry of Construction, leaving MUDH to concen-
trate on overall town planning, administration of urban land, and
supervision of municipalities, except for Addis.  Over the past eight
years one of the Ministry's major tasks has been the organization of
former municipalities into the new Urban Dweller's Association struc-
ture (para. 3.41).
Organization
3.04      The Ministry is organized into three major departments which
deal with (a) town planning and urban land administration, (b) hous-
ing research and development, and (c) urban administration as well as
several units which provide administative, financial and legal ser-
vices.    In addition,  the Ministry  supervises  one  semi-autonomous
agency, the Rental Housing Administration (RHA) (see Chart 19679).
Staffing
3.05          Professional manpower shortages which exist throughout
government services, are particularly acute in MUDH. While only about
10% of MUDH's authorized FY82 positions are actively vacant, separa-
tion of the Ministry of Construction drew away many of MUDH's more ex-
perienced professionals. Lower-level staff, however, is abundant,
creating an unbalanced situation which tends to generate a heavier
supervision load on professionals and administrators, leaving them
less time for productive work.



- 21 -
3.06       Although professional staff shortages are expected to per-
sist, various training efforts have been launclhed to address the prob-
lem.   A five-year program has recently been initiated to train 600
surveyors, topographers and technicians, and another 250 techtnical
personnel will be trained through local vocational schools.   In the
meantime,  the Ministry has  obtained  assistance  from Eastern Block
Countries for positions in architecture, sanitary and civil engineer-
ing and town planning.
Finance
3.07         Ministry  (including  municipal)  operations  are  financed
through general government revenues, and to a lesser degree by munici-
pal charges. Municipal finances are discussed in para. 3.49.
Project Management
3.08      The Ministry, as the primary executing agency, will be res-
ponsible for detailed design, community consultation, preparation of
tender documents, bidding and contract award where appropriate, and
supervision of construction. They will handle allocation of plots in
liaison with HSB, organization and registry of cooperatives, and tech-
nical assistance  to home builders.   Implementation of training and
the project preparation study will also fall to the unit along with
overall monitoring of results.
3.09      A project has been established to carry out these functions,
containing three divisions: technical, social, and financial. Separ-
ate multidisciplinary teams will be formed to work on serviced sites
and upgrading. Legal, survey and personnel services will be provided
by the Ministry's centralized sections. The unit will report directly
to the Head of the Housing Research and Development Department (HRDD)
and through him to the Permanent Secretary, and will be adequately
staffed with full time personnel responsible solely for the project.
The Unit Director will be appointed as a condition of credit effec-
tiveness, that the three Section Heads will be appointed by February
28, 1983, and that the qualification and experience of key staff
(Director and Section Heads) or any replacements will be acceptable to
IDA. Experienced staff will be transferred into the unit and recruit-
ment of additional professionals is not expected to present undue dif-
ficulties.
3.10       For the unit to function effectively, it was also agreed at
negotiations that it will be assigned responsibility for the following
matters in relation to project activities:
(a)  staff control including hiring, firing and determination of
salary levels within the Ministry's established ranges and
in accordance with the Ministry's general terms and condi-
tions;



- 22 -
(b) inventory control (vehicles, equipment and materials); and
(c)  commitment  authority  (with appropriate ministerial  appro-
vals), and procurement and actual payments including esta-
blishment of a separate bank account.
B. The Housing and Savings Bank
Functions
3.11      The state-owned HSB is the only Bank with a mandate for mor-
tgage lending.   The HSB finances single family dwellings,  apartment
complexes and state-sponsored commercial  real estate ventures.   It
also administers the EEC-assisted low-cost housing project through a
"trust fund," under which the Housing Bank is paid a management fee by
government but carries no risk if borrowers default.   Loan amounts
range up to B40,000 (US$19,300) for individual households and up to
B45,000 (US$21,700) for each housing cooperative member.   The Bank's
discretionary power to approve credits for cooperatives or state
enterprise is subject to an overall limit of 5% of its capital plus
reserves.    If  loan  requests  exceed  this  amount,approval  of  the
National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) is required.
Organization
3.12      Established in 1975 as an amalgamation of the Imperial Sav-
ings and Home Ownership Public Association (ISHOPA) and the Savings
and Mortgage Corporation of Ethiopia (SMCE), the HSB has been through
a difficult transitional period in which the procedures, staff and
financial records of the two very different institutions had to be
combined. The ISHOPA was a public entity established in 1962 and ini-
tially funded by a USAID grant and by the Ethiopian Government.   A
mutual savings and loan association, ISHOPA specialized in mortgage
loans to its members who were almost exclusively middle or upper in-
come.   Initially a wholly-owned  subsidiary of Ethiopia's commercial
bank, SMCE on the other hand concentrated on large-scale development
of office buildings and residential property.  The HSB now functions
under the direction of NBE,the supervisory authority of the banking
and insurance industry.
3.13       Having inherited a portfolio of loans to upper-income fami-
lies, the HSB has had difficlties reaching the "broad masses" it was
mandated to serve.   It did move down in the urban income curve over
its first three years of operations following the 1975 revolution.
During the period 1976-79, for the first time 90 loans or about 2% of
total loans extended were made to individual borrowers in the poorer
half of the Addis population i.e. below the 60th percentile.  Another
1,789 or 36% of total loans were extended to income groups between the
60th and 90th percentile of the income curve, with the remaining 62%
going to the richest 10%.  However, more recently (1980-1981) partly
because incomes have not kept pace with inflation and partly because
easily serviced land is now scarce, this trend toward lower income
lending has reversed.   No loans at all were extended to the poorer
half of the population, only 15% of total loans went to those between



- 23 -
the 60th-9Oth percentiles, and the balance of 85% went to the top
10%.  Host HSB lending has been for contractor-built units, however,
and the proposed self-help program should help HSB reintroduce
lower-iLncome lending.   The HSB's management  is fully aware of its
mandate to lend to lower income groups and is anxious to move in this
direction.
3.14        The Housing and Savings Bank operates from a large home
office in Addis, with six branch offices in Addis Ketema, Asmara,
Awassa,Jimma,  Nazareth  and Debre  Zeit.   The  Agency  is  run  on  a
day-to--day basis by a General Manager, his Deputy, six divisional and
eight departmental heads, organized as shown in Chart 23431.
3.15        Two standing committees guide the HSB's operations.   The
Policy Committee consisting of the General Manager, his Deputy, and
all division and two department heads is primariLy concerned with the
formulation of operational and credit policies. The Loans Committee,
comprising the Credit Manager, the Head of the Loan Department, and
loan officers meets twice weekly or as needed to approve loans.
3.16      Two major changes have been effected in the last three years
in the organization and operational procedures of the Housing and Sav-
ing Bank to improve efficiency and the control of branch operations.
First, the former four divisions have been increased to six, and more
authority has been vested in middle management. A second change made
is the installation of two NCR 499 automated accounting machines on an
experimental  basis.   Although  the  installation of this  system was
expected to improve loan record processing and speed up monthly
closing, due to constant breakdowns and lack of adequate maintenance
support from the vendor, the system is not yet fully operational. The
HSB Management has serious misgivings about the system and the ability
of the vendor to provide adequate maintenance. Management proposes to
commission a study which will look into the feasibility of mechanizing
HSB's accounting system and make recommendations for more suitable
hardware  and  software.   The  study will be financed under the HSB
management component of the proposed project and funds will also be
made available for purchase of equipment for mechanized accounting
systems.
Staffing
3.17       The Housing and Savings Bank's Manager and his Deputy have
both been in place for just over three years and are well qualified
and experienced.  To keep pace with the rapid expansion of the Bank
over the last five years, several management positions have been fill-
ed through promotion of competent younger professionals. In addition,
the HSB has recruited qualified personnel from the Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia.  Currently there are 273 staff in the Bank, a substantial
increase of two-thirds over the number three years ago. Of these, 37%
are high school graduates, 21% holders of a professional diploma and
8% university graduates.  Overall this represents a distinct improve-
ment in staffing levels within the Housing Bank, and together with the
changes in reporting procedures, has eased the heavy administrative
burden on senior management.



- 24 -
Financial Performance and Conditions
3.18        The HSB's audited financial statements for the four years
since its inception (1976-1980) and unaudited statement for 1981
(Table 20000) reveal several key features of its operations.   First,
its total assets have grown rapidly from B89 (US$43) million at the
end of FY76 to B220 (US$106) million at June 30, 1981.  Of the total
loan  portfolio  of  B186  million  as  of  June  30,  1981,  mortgages
naturally represent the vast majority (B174 million or 93.3%,) followed
by loans under litigation or foreclosure ("ALD") of about B7 million
or 4%, loans "in realization" (predominantly nationalized land) of B4
million or 2%, personal guarantee loans of BO.9 million or 0.5% and
loans on exempted (nationalized) "extra houses" of BO.3 million or
0.2%.
3.19       Of the total resources at June 30, 1981 about 14% or B30
(US$15) million was in the form of long-term debt, 6% or B14 (US$7)
million was in the form of short-term debt (accounts payable),76% or
B167 (US$81) million represented customer savings consisting of insti-
tutional  time deposits  and  individual  savings.   Another 3% or B6
(US$2.8) million represented managed trust funds, while the remaining
1% or B3 (US$1.5) million represented capital and retained earnings.
3.20      The rapid growth in HSB's loan portfolio during the 1976-81
period was financed almost entirely by institutional time deposits
which have more than doubled in five years. By law HSB is depository
for certain pension funds, insurance premiums and any MUDH and Kebele
rental surpluses. Although these deposits have grown steadily, HSB's
heavy reliance on such deposits to finance its growing medium- to
long-term mortgage portfolio may present a high level of term inter-
mediation risk in the event of a sudden call on deposits.
3.21       Liquidity:  The Housing Bank's liquidity rose sharply after
its establishment but dropped considerably as loan commitments peaked
in 1978-80.   As of December 1976 cash on hand stood at 32% of total
deposits.    In the two years thereafter cash on hand grew to 42% and
then fell sharply to 7% of total deposits in 1980.    However, as of
June 1981 cash on hand had been rebuilt to 18% of total deposits.
Assuming a prudent cash requirement of about 15%-20% of total deposits
the current level of liquidity is reasonable.  Since, as noted above,
under the Housing Bank proclamation institutions are required to
deposit pension funds, insurance premiums, etc. with HSB, such
deposits are less likely to be suddenly withdrawn than would
individual savings deposits.   In addition, HSB may call up to 5% of
total deposits at the Commercial  Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) at any time
to generate additional liquidity.
3.22        Overall Performance and Profitability:   Although HSB has
generated satisfactory pretax profits yielding an annual return on
total assets averaging around 1.4% (Table 20001) with yearly lending
spreads ranging from 3% to 5% during the period, its overall financial
performance is weak primarily as a result of the 1975 nationalization
of all urban land and extra houses which had a severely adverse impact
on its loan portfolio and the manner in which HSB is required to write



- 25 -
off these debts. While one might quibble with the use of conventional
financial ratios which may not be terribly meaningful in this situa-
tion since the HSB is a state-owned entity governed by statutory re-
gulations, the effect of this trend has been a rapid depreciation of
HSB's equity base which at B3 million as of June 1981 is half of its
paid-in capital of B6 million.  Simultaneously, the HSB's liabilities
have more than doubled from B82 million in 1976 to B211 as of June
1981, resulting in a total debt/equity ratio of 70:1 and a long-term
debt/equity  ratio  of 10:1  (Table  20000).   By  contrast,  the  Agri-
cultural and Industrial Development Bank's (AIDB) debt/equity ratio is
9:1, and their long-term debt/equity is only 5:1. A sharp deteriora-
tion has occurred over the last several years with HSB's overall
debt/'equity ratio dropping from 27:1 in 1977 to 70:1 in 1981.
3.23        Nationalization:  The reasons behind the Housing Bank's un-
usual financial situation can be best understood from a review of the
implications of nationalization.
3.24        In 1975, government took over a significant chunk of HSB's
collateral assets without simultaneously relieving them of the asso-
ciated  liabilities.  Essentially three types of loans were affected:
(i) loans for construction or purchase of "extra" (rental) houses,
(ii) non-recourse personal loans collateralized by a second mortgage,
and (iii) loans for land purchase. Clearly, these loans are no longer
collectible from the original borrowers, who no longer own the asset,
and some must be written off or the HSB reimbursed by government who
is the new owner of the loan collateral.
3.25        The HSB sees no need to write off the first or second cate-
gories, i.e. loans for "extra" (rental) houses, or personal loans col-
lateralized with second mortgages on nationalized properties, as some
payments are being received against these items through the Rental
Housing Agency.  The principal outstanding  as of June 30, 1981 was
only B352,000 on extra houses and B896,000 on personal loans.
3.26       During the past three years, however, HSB has written off a
considerable  portion  of  the  loans  for  nationalized  land.   As  of
June 30, 1981 there was still a balance of B4 (US$1.9) million (loans
"in   realization")   which   is   considered   uncollectible,  as  this
undeveloped land is producing no significant income.  This represents
2% of the loan portfolio .  Government has offered to allow the HSB to
write off these "exempted" loans upon presentation of satisfactory
documentation. The HSB, in turn, has extended the same offer to its
borrowers whose properties were nationalized. Although HSB has been
taking appropriate measures in securing the necessary documentation
and contacting the borrowers the process has been slow and time
consuming.
3.27        Bad Debt Provisions:  If government does not directly reim-
burse HSB for loans against nationalized land, the HSB's bad debt pro-
visions need to be built up sufficiently to write them off.  In the



- 26 -
absence of movement on direct government reimbursement, the Housing
Bank has begun to do exactly this over the last few years.  However,
their current level of bad debt provisions of around B4 million would
only just about offset these land loans, rendering the institution
without further reserves against bad debts in other portfolio
categories.
3.28      Additional provisions are required to cover risks associated
with other segments of the HSB's portfolio, i.e., those not affected
by nationalization. Over the last few years the HSB has evaluated its
portfolio and grouped its other problem loans (largely excluding na-
tionalized properties) into one category called "ALD" (Advance Legal
Department) totalling B7.4 million or about 4% of the total portfolio.
Since such loans have proven weak or uncollectible, the next logical
step would be for HSB to foreclose and auction off the properties.
3.29       However, cumbersome legal procedures and recent court deci-
sions have made foreclosure and resale practically impossible.   The
HSB can put up a property for auction only twice.  In the first in-
stance a minimum price is established for the property and if there
are no buyers at this price, then the property is not sold.  There-
after, the property may be auctioned off on an "open bid" basis at a
second auction. The HSB has unsuccessfully attempted to auction some
properties at a first auction with a floor price.  It is reluctant to
proceed with the second auction based on "open bid," however, in view
of the risk of not being able to recover the full amount of the out-
standing loan. Moreover, to make things worse, if a property is not
disposed of in the second auction, the courts have the right to in-
struct HSB to take over the property at a price determined by the
court. If the price set is higher than the outstanding loan balance,
the HSB must escrow the difference with the courts. Prevailing law,
however, prohibits the Housing Bank from renting the property and re-
covering their investment.   These laws would have to be changed to
make the system workable, but the HSB has no real desire to become a
landlord with all the role's inherent managerial woes, and would pre-
fer such properties be transferred to MUDH's Rental Agency. Thus the
HSB has been feeling its way along and resolution of this problem
portfolio has gone very slowly. Auction carries heavy risk of the HSB
incurring further outright losses or of their being saddled with an
unwanted administrative burden. Lending through cooperatives as pro-
posed under the project effectively sidesteps the issue since coopera-
tives typically have replaced defaulting members without recourse to
the courts.   Although,  therefore,  not an immediate problem for the
proposed project, the obvious difficulty of foreclosure would indicate
the need for a higher bad debt provision than if properties could
easily be resold.   Up to half of the present  "ALD" portfolio may
eventually have to be written off, bringing estimated bad debts to
about B7 million, nearly double the current provisions of B4 million.
3.30        A review of arrearage levels in HSB's regular portfolio
based on a 60% sample taken during appraisal (Table III-1), indicated
arrears of four months or over of about 6% of the outstanding balance
of principal and interest.  From another perspective about 38% of all
loans were in arrears by four months or more.   About 13% of total
loans are serious cases of 12 months and over.



- 27 -
Table III-1
ARREARS-HSB
(B'000)
Total
Out-                 Loan in Arrears                   Total
standing    4-6 Mos.        7-12 Mos.  Over 12 Mos.  Arrears
Balance   No.   Amount  No.   Amount No.    Amount No.  Amount
67,307     12%   392    13%   1,018  13%    2,633  38%  4,043
(100%)           (0.6%)         (1.5%)         (3.9%)        (6%)
3.31        Although the arrearage on HSB's regular portfolio does not
appear to be critical  in relation  to other  financial  institutions
within the country, and the Housing Bank has initiated a drive to
improve collections, the HSB may need further reserves against its
regular portfolio over and above those funds needed to write off
uncollectible nationalized land loans, and a portion of the known
'ALD'  problem  portfolio.    Under  present  circumstances  the  HSB's
probable liabilities exceed its assets rendering it effectively
insolvent. This is not the result of poor management, but rather the
impact of current government policy and regulation.
3.32       Clearly HSB needs to build up its provision for bad debts.
The current system of calculating taxes, however, does not allow HSB
to treat bad debt provisions as a charge against income before tax.
This in itself is not standard practice internatjionally. Thus, income
tax is paid prior to setting aside provisions, and little margin is
left for HSB to build its bad debt provisions to adequate levels.
Substantial writeoffs in effect have to be made against HSB's equity,
the result of which has been rapid depreciation of HSB's equity base
as noted above.   In addition, Ethiopia's rates on HSB's profit have
risen over the last few years from 42% in 1977 to 50% in 1980 in
response to government's need for revenue.  Also a capital charge of
7.5% on HSB's equity and reserves was introduced in 1978 and HSB was
require to remit to the Government 70% of its "residual surplus"
(surplus after provisions  and  taxes).   Therefore,  in effect,  total
remittances to the Government amount to about 65%, of gross profits--an
increase of over 50% in three years.
3.33        Proposed Measures:  The HSB clearly has significant poten-
tial for playing a major role in future low-cost shelter development
throughout Ethiopia and is the sole agency earmarked to do so.   A
major long term Bank objective in this sector is to strengthen the
Housing Bank to play this role directly and effectively.  This task
requires first and foremost placing the HSB on a sound financial foot-
ing, helping initiate appropriate shelter policies and programs to
broadly impact urban areas where the majority is poor, and strengthen-
ing of its professional staff.  Under this first project a start will
be made on all three elements.



- 28 -
3.34          With  respect  to the HSB's  overall  financial  position,
several specific steps have been suggested to improve the institu-
tion' s standing.   First,  in view of the current level of arrears,
the HSB should continue to make an annual review of the quality of its
mortgage portfolio and should set aside regular annual provisions for
bad debts.  Provisions have been made in a lumpy manner in the past
with none in given years and large amounts in others, perhaps because
revaluations of the portfolio have not taken place annually.
3.35        Second, with respect to the "ALD" portfolio of troubled
loans, most of which were not affected by nationalization, the HSB
should proceed with auctioning properties even though they may thereby
incur further losses.  In the event no private buyer can be found at
an  acceptable  price,  ownership  of  these  properties  should  be
transferred to the Ministry's Rental Housing Agency which should
undertake servicing of the debt from the rent realized, or alternately
the debt should just be written off.  Either way, the HSB should be
relieved of any continuing ownership and management responsibility on
such properties.
3.36      Third, to deal with the adverse effect of nationalization on
HSB's land loan portfolio, HSB should proceed with legal and other
means to get borrower's to produce the necessary evidence to qualify
for exemption.   However, progress on this front should be monitored
closely by HSB through an annual report beginning December 31, 1982
and if within a reasonable period--say three years--these loans are
not cleared, HSB should be allowed to write them off.
3.37          Fourth,  government  should enable HSB  to build up its
reserves by permitting HSB to retain its surplus earnings at the
maximum rate allowable (60%) under Proclamation No. 163/1979, whenever
its general reserve fund falls below 60% of its paid-in capital, due
to losses.
3.38       Last, and perhaps most importantly, the capital base of HSB
needs to be substantially strengthened. There is at present, virtual-
ly no effective equity base, leaving the Housing Bank no margin of
safety. Indeed, a further default of only 1.4% of its portfolio would
completely wipe out what remains of its already meager capital.
Provision has been made under the project for a direct infusion of
capital   through   the transfer of B12 million of Government and IDA
funds to HSB on a grant basis (see para. 5.03).
3.39       These five proposed measures were discussed with government
at negotiations. Of the five, the first three involve continuation of
activities the HSB has already initiated (annual portfolio review,
auctioning of "ALD" portfolio properties and close monitoring of the
pace of land loan exemptions and possible eventual writeoff).  While



- 29 -
these decisions require government concurrence and cooperation, they
are relatively straightforward  issues.  The lat:ter two, however, are
weightier matters with implications potentially reaching beyond HSB.
Implementation of the latter two will therefore be paced over several
years .
Project Management
3.40        Loans for dwellings, pit latrines, and community facilities
will be handled through HSBE's normal departmental structure. Each de-
partment will be strengthened with full-time staff to handle project
related  operations  (see Chart 23431), and  the  Foreign  Fund Account
Section will be accountable for overall progress. It was agreed at ne-
gotiations that the HSB's Senior Accountant, onte loan officer and one
engineer will be assigned as a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
C. Urban Dwellers' Association
(The Municipality)
Organization and Functions
3.41       The three-tiered Urban Dwellers' Association (Chart 19692),
was established by proclamation late in 1976 and is responsible for a
broad  range  of development  activities.   At  the  grass-roots  level
kebeles represent the basic organizational unit of 500-1,000 house-
holds.   Kebele  responsibilities  include  management of nationalized
houses renting for less than B100 per month, construction and opera-
tion of schools and community centers, productive activities, local
security, and minor judicial functions. While the elected leadership
was initially unstable, the organizations began to regain equilibrium
in L978 and have now established reasonably effective control over
local affairs.
3.42       With improvement of the general security situation in Addis,
many kebeles are now beginning to focus on their broader development
responsibilities.   New  schools  and  preschools  have  been  built and
adult literacy classes begun. Many have initiated small-scale produc-
tive enterprises to create jobs and improve revenues.
3.43         The major task for most kebeles has been  rental housing
management including maintenance and/or the redLevelopment of severely
dilapidated  dwellings.    The  associations  have  been  surprisingly
successful in managing 92% of the publicly-owned housing stock in
Addis. Rents are being collected, compensation is being paid to for-
mer landlords entitled to it, and rental disputes are being settled in
community courts.
3.44       Maintenance, however, represents a major problem.  Long be-
fore kebeles took possession, home repairs on rental units had been
neglected by owners.  With nationalization and the  subsequent sharp



- 30 -
reduction in rents, rental incomes are now only slightly in excess of
compensation payments, leaving little for maintenance.  As a result,
there has been a further gradual deterioration in the housing stock.
Government considered a proposal to return rental units to private oc-
cupant ownership several years ago but ultimately rejected it. Main-
tenance funds may have to come from an eventual rent increase, or al-
ternately, families occupying rental dwellings may be made legally
responsible for their maintenance.  Government is aware of this prob-
lem and efforts  are being made  to  find  a solution.   The Central
Association's maintenance study proposed herein will address this
problem.
3.45       Elections of kebele-level officials were first held in the
Spring of 1977. Communities first elect a 15-member Policy Committee.
This committee in turn generally establishes three other bodies:  an
Executive Committee responsible for rent collection, compensation,
schools and shops, a Defense Committee (local police), and a Judicial
Tribunal. A three-member Inspection Committee is also elected direct-
ly by the community and is accountable directly to it.
3.46       From the body of elected kebele officials, 25 Higher Asso-
ciations are formed to coordinate the development activities of
kebeles in their jurisdiction, determine the use and distribution of
funds received from the Central Association, and act as an appeal
mechanism for disputes among kebeles on lower judicial decisions.
3.47        The ultimate head of the organizational structure is the
Central Association, formerly the municipality.  Officials were first
elected in April 1978.   A congress whose membership is formed from
elected representatives of Higher Associations elects a Standing Com-
mittee of seven members who become full-time, employed officials.
Three mayoral candidates are named among the group, from which the
central government makes the final selection. The five other Standing
Committee members are responsible for overseeing the political, finan-
cial, technical, administrative/legal and coordination functions of
the CA. The Association is responsible for urban transport, fire, am-
bulance, refuse services, and maintenance of particular roads and
major municipal facilities such as parks, markets, cemeteries and
theaters.
Staffing
3.48       Except for a full-time employed rent secretary, most kebele
efforts rely entirely on part-time work by elected officials who are
allowed two afternoons off their normal jobs each week , and on volun-
teers, some of whom are skilled craftsmen or professionals.   A few
kebeles employ full-time staff to run schools, workshops, retail
shops, and other community-sponsored activities. Implementation capa-
city varies greatly--a major consideration in shaping the proposed
loan.



- 31 -
Finances
3.49      A comprehensive review of CA (municipal) finances was under-
taken by government to restructure the Association's revenue base and
expenditures.   In the past, municipal revenue primarily accrued from
general sales and property taxes as well as special munic!pal taxes on
fuel, house rents and land sales.  The nationalization of urban land
and extra houses significantly reduced municipal income and the subse-
quent proclamation creating the Urban Dwellers' Association system
changed their responsibilities.  Addis officials submitted their new
financial proposal to the Council of Ministers in FY78, recommending
enforcement of existing land rent and house taxes which had been
largely neglected by previous administrations.  Government responded
with strong encouragement to the City to become financially self-suf-
ficient.  Since then, city income has grown slowly but steadily, ris-
ing from B16 million FY78 to B24 million in FY81 with a concurrent
reduction in government assistance which now constitutes only 4% of
revenues. Approval of the CA's new tax proposals now with the Council
of Ministers would eliminate this subsidy altogether.  Income of B32
million is expected this fiscal  year.   Expenditures  have  remained
consistently  below  income,  leaving  an  annual  surplus  which  is
typically carried forward (Table 20002).
3.50          At the kebele level,  the surplus after compensation on
rents from dwellings priced below B100 per month constitutes the major
source of kebele income, supplemented by profits from kebele shops or
smal:L industries.  A 15% tax on kebele income is paid to the Higher
Association which redistributes the funds to kebeles without rental
units.
3.51         Kebeles  to date have used credit facilities sparingly.
Schools, community centers, and new rental hotLsing have been built
largely with community contributions.  Although the associations are
legally able to borrow, the Commercial Bank has been slow to extend
small-scale credit because the associations were initially unstable
and  were  themselves  reluctant  to  apply  for  loans.           As  the
organizations have stabilized their leadership and income, they have
begun  to explore ways  to finance development  projects.   Both  the
Commercial Bank and HSB are authorized to lend for these purposes.
The HSB initiated Kebele lending in 1978 and has made about seven
loans to date in amounts from B15,000-50,000 (US$7,200-24,000), and
for  periods  up  to  20  years.    The Kebele  Development  Fund  will
significantly expand on this beginning.
Project Management
3.52        The Central Association will undertake responsibility for
the construction, operation and maintenance ol primary schools and
community facilities built under the project, and will carry out the
maintenance  and  transport  studies.    Kebeles  will  help  publicize
serviced   plots   and   assist   illiterate   families   to  fill  out
applications.  Since loan funds are optional and contingent upon the
CA's assessment of each association's capacity to implement and
maintain such facilities, as well as the Kebele raising a portion of
the   funds  itself,   no  problems  are  anticipated   in  selecting
associations with the ability to carry out these responsibilities.



- 32 -
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Policies
Land Acquisition/Tenure and Transfer
4.01       All project sites are government property.  The Ministry of
Urban Development and Housing is responsible for assigning urban land
use and has formally reserved the project sites, which remain clear
and ready for development. The project will follow the existing tenure
system of Ethiopia under which titles to land and dwellings are separ-
ated, with the state holding title to land and individuals or others
holding title to dwellings.  With regard to land, a land certificate
granting use rights for which participants will pay an annual rent
will be issued by the CA in new serviced sites. In upgraded settle-
ments, nearly everyone held some form of occupancy permission from
previous owners prior to nationalization, and kebeles now effectively
control influx and tenure rights on government's behalf. The HSB will
require kebele confirmation of tenure rights for individual upgrading
loans.    Land rights cannot be legally transferred by sale or lease
between individuals but families can inherit use rights to residential
plots of up to 500 m2.  Few practical problems appear to have arisen
to date in transferring land tenure rights in the limited number of
cases where homes have been sold.
4.02      Single family dwellings, on the other hand, can be privately
owned,  sold or otherwise transferred or inherited.  Dwellings built
under the project will be held on a tenant-purchase basis, with title
to the dwelling and the land use rights certificate held by HSB until
payment of the final loan installment. Private subletting is not al-
lowed.  Owners who must leave an area for a period but don't wish to
sell their property may turn the home over to the kebele to rent, and
then reclaim it upon return.  The proposed tenure and ownership ar-
rangements are expected to give participants sufficient confidence to
develop homes and invest in their improvement.
Allocation
4.03        Responsibility for selection of participants will lie with
the MUDH project unit working in liaison with HSB and the CA.
Serviced plots will be advertised through the media, the Central Asso-
ciation and word-of-mouth, stating monthly charges, the physical and
credit facilities offered, and the self-help nature of the program.
Applications will be received by MUDH during specified periods. Dur-
ing negotiations, the following eligiblity criteria were confirmed for
serviced plots in Addis and house loans in other urban areas:
(a) household head of age 18 or over;
(b) willingness to participate in a self-help program; and
(c) a reasonably regular formal or informal household monthly
income of below B170 or the 77th perentile of the urban in-
come curve for at least 70% of plots in serviced project
sites and all dwellings financed through the B6.8 million
HSB fund in other urban areas.



- 33 -
4.04       Allocation will be essentially on a first come first-served
basis, and will be done in phases of about 500.  Applications will be
screened by MUDH immediately on receipt for conformity with the three
eligibility criteria and passed to the HSB to calculate the maximum
loan for which the applicant is eligible.  Final vetting of the list
will be done in a joint session between MUDH and HSB, with the appro-
val of HSB's Loan Committee (para. 3.15).  In the event eligible ap-
plicants exceed available plots further screening would be done by
MUDH based on need and proximity of employment. Allocation of the 250
business plots will be done in liaison with the Agricultural and In-
dustrial Development Bank.  The major criteria will be the financial
and administrative viability and employment generating potential of
the business.
Resettlement
4.05        The project will involve less than 2% resettlement due to
the relatively wide existing roads and footpaths in large portions of
Tekle Haimanot (see photos), and the flexibility to be applied to road
reserve  requirements.   These  families  will  be  relocated  in Tekle
Haimanot if possible, or given serviced plots in Nefas Silk. If un-
able to pay the monthly charges, or otherwise preferring to remain in
the Tekle Haimanont area, they may trade for an existing rental unit
in their kebele, and let another family take the service plot.  Com-
pensation payments are included in project costs.
Community Involvement
4.06         The eight kebeles in Tekle Haimanot will participate in
finalizing detailed designs and standards, and will determine commu-
nity facilities to be built.  These decisions, in turn, will affect
total costs and monthly payments.  Potential disruptions due to dis-
agreements among the community should be minimal in this context since
the kebele and Higher Association's authority and the decision-making
process is well established.
Construction Loans
4.07          Participants will make their own arrangements probably
through housing cooperatives for construction loans. The HSB prefers
to deal with cooperatives which reduces their administration costs and
appears to result in better repayment. Cooperatives also receive pri-
ority in building materials.  The cooperative guarantee should also
make it easier for self-employed families to obtain credit, and normal
down payment requirements of 10% are typically waived for groups.
While individuals will be eligible for loans, most participants are
expected to form cooperatives in view of the numerous incentives.
4.08      To obtain credit from HSB, families mnust have secured:
(a) the CA's land certificate, (b) if a cooperative member, MUDH
registration, (c) a house design and bill of quantities (supplied by
MUDH); and (d) the municipality's building permit (automatic with ap-
proved designs). The MUDH will assist in obtaLning these documents.



- 34 -
4.09        The HSB's disbursement procedures are well-suited to self-
help. An initial portion (about 10%) of the loan amount is placed im-
mediately into a current account against which the borrower may write
checks.   Borrowers are responsible for securing their own materials
and skilled labor.  When the footings and foundations are completed,
the HSB will make an inspection and issue a certificate of completion
against which a further disbursement of about 15% is made. All dis-
bursements after the first would be against work completed. Alterna-
tively, the initial disbursement may be used to purchase all required
building materials, storage of which would be the responsibility of
the  borrower.    Thus  further  price  escalation  would  be  avoided.
Borrowers may choose their preferred option.
B. Implementation Schedule
4.10        Project implementation will take about four years (Chart
23448).   Establishment and staffing of implementation units will take
place in early 1983, will take a year or two to build up to full
strength.   Detailed design and engineering on the Nefas Silk site
is nearing completion, with plot demarcation following thereafter.
Allocation  of  plots  will  take  place  in  early  1983  and  house
construction will  begin  by  mid-year.    Civil  works  will  parallel
dwelling construction.  This is a reversal of the pattern followed in
many earlier Bank-assisted serviced site projects in the region, under
which plots were serviced first, then allocated and finally houses
were built. Occupancy takes at least several years. Rapid erosion of
affordability in Ethiopia, however, makes it imperative that houses,
which  represent  80%  of  the  total  development  cost,  be  built
immediately  to minimize  the impact  of inflation.   Servicing costs
would rise slightly due to a later start and longer completion time,
but would be substantially offset by savings on house construction.
4.11      Detailed design on upgrading will be undertaken immediately
following Board approval, since the community consultation it involves
inevitably raises expectations and Tekle Haimanot residents have al-
ready been disappointed once when loan processing was suspended. This
is a normal practice in upgrading projects, and will reduce the time
lag between consultation and actual construction. Since formal tenure
documents will not be required, house improvement loans can begin in
early 1984 immediately following community briefings and consulta-
tion.  Civil works would span much of 1984 and 1985.  Startup of cost
recovery is expected in 1984 for serviced sites, and early 1986 for
upgrading. Training and studies are expected to get underway in mid-
1983 and continue throughout the project life.
C. Procurement
4.12       Contracts for roads, drainage, and solid waste removal and
other equipment and vehicles totalling B6.1 (US$2.9) million including
contingencies or 11% of total project costs would be procured through
ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. Advertisement for ICB will be
done locally and through the Development Forum, with notification to
embassies of IDA member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan.  However,



- 35 -
because these contracts individually do not exceed Bl.6 (US$0.8) mil-
lion they are unlikely to attract foreign interest. Local contractors
and manufacturers will be granted a preference of 7.5% for civil works
and 15% on equipment or the existing rate of import duties, whichever
is lower, according to IDA guidelines.
4.13        Materials for house construction and commercial-industrial
infrastructure extensions totalling B34.4 (US$16.6) million including
contingencies or 60% of project costs will be procured directly by in-
dividual households or cooperatives  from local suppliers.   Another
B5.9 (US$2.9) million or 10% of project costs will be obtained through
local bidding procedures which were reviewed at appraisal and are
satisfactory to the Association and in which foreign bidders may par-
ticipate.  This includes small contracts for community facilities and
markets under the Kebele Development Fund, and periodic road mainte-
nance contracts.   Force account contracts with AAWASA and EELPA for
water and electrical infrastructure will constitute only about B1.2
(US$0.6) million or 2% of project costs. These are considered prefer-
able to competitive bidding not only because of their small size (none
exceed B700,000 or US$340,000) but because the work will be carried
out in conjunction with house construction (para 4.10), thus increas-
ing the likelihood of claims for loss and break;age arising were inde-
pendant contractors to be used.   While force account operations are
also likely to encounter difficulties, they are expected to be more
easily adapted to these special conditions. The EELPA and AAWASA have
the requisite capacity to carry out these works.
4.14      The remaining B9.6 (US$4.6) million or 17% of project costs
representing staff salaries and operations (B5.9 million), training,
technical assistance and studies (B3.0 million), and compensation
(BO.7 million), will be procured or paid directly under government
budgets.   Contracts for works exceeding US$150,000 and for goods ex-
ceeding US$100,000 will require prior IDA review of bidding documenta-
tion and contract awards.
D.   Monitoring/Evaluation
4.15      In view of the staff shortages prevailing in Ethiopia, moni-
toring and evaluation will be a modest exercise geared to essential
management information and limited analysis of practical problems and
project impacts on beneficiaires. Special efforts would be focused on
key features of the project affecting the physical, financial, or ad-
ministrative design of further projects of a similar nature. A full-
time staff member attached to the project unit will be responsible for
formulation and supervision of the program.   Quarterly reports will
also be prepared by the HSB and CA covering construction loans, the
Kebele Development Fund and collections.  These will be supplemented
by MUDH's report on other project features in accordance with a format
to be agreed with the Association during initial supervision missions.



- 36 -
E. Recurrent Costs
4.16        Annual maintenance costs are estimated at about B860,000
(US$415,000) representing 2%-5% of capital costs.   Of these 18% or
B155,000 would be borne by the Central Association for roads, drainage
and solid waste equipment, 1% or B7,000 by AAWASA for water and 2% or
B14,000 by EELPA for electricity.  The majority of maintenance expen-
ses would fall to individual homeowners who would be responsible for
maintaining dwellings and pit latrines annual maintenance costs for
which are estimated at B684,000 or 80% of the project total.
4.17         Annual recurrent costs for community facilities will run
about B145,000 (US$70,000) for primary schools, B14,000 (US$6,800) for
community centers, and B26,000 (US$12,500) for markets. These will be
borne predominantly by kebeles (85%) and the Central Association
(13%).  Recurrent costs per primary pupil are about B54 (US$26) per
year or B4.50 (US$2.15) per month net of capital repayment.   Since
school loan funds must be repaid, however, total monthly costs per
student including capital recovery will range from about B4.55 for im-
proved schools to B5.50 for new ones. Assuming families could afford
15% of their incomes for education--typically a high priority for low
income groups--families between the 40th-50th percentiles of the urban
income curve could afford  to send two children to school.   Double
shifting reduces this to about the 35th-45th percentiles and is likely
to occur. The only government contribution to primary education would
be training of kebele teachers.
4.18       Maintenance of communal water taps wil be a kebele respon-
sibility, following current practice. Communities typically hire in-
dividuals to operate the taps during agreed hours and to collect water
charges.   Because of problems experienced in other areas, however,
other alternatives such as a direct private franchise may be tried
out. Experience will be monitored and the approach adapted if neces-
sary.
F. Supervision
4.19       Project supervision is expected to require about 30 staff-
weeks the first year, of which about 15 would be in the field.  Inputs
during the first year are typically higher than later years because of
start-up activities and in first projects, the borrowers unfamiliarity
with IDA procedures.



- 37 -
V. FINANCES
A. Costs
5.01       The estimated total cost of the project is B57.2 (US$27.7)
million, of which 27% or US$7.5 million is foreign exchange (Table
V-1). No land costs are included since land has been nationalized and
all project sites are owned by government. Project costs net of taxes
and duties which are estimated at B1.8 (US$0.9) million or about 3%,
total B55.4 (US$26.8) million. Base costs are in January 1982 prices.
Physical contingencies total B1.1 (US$0.5) million or 3% of base
costs, reflecting 15% for preliminary serviced site and upgrading de-
signs,  and  5% for equipment,  training  and advisory  services.   No
physical contingencies are provided for house loans since designs are
based on units now being built, and loan amounts are pegged to reci-
pients'incomes rather than any particular dlesign. Price contingencies
total B12.3 (US$5.9) million or 28% of base costs and are based on
projected domestic inflation of 13%, 12%, ].1%, and 10% for 1982, 1983,
1984 and 1985/86 respectively, and on imported items of 8.5% and 7.5%
for 1982 and 1983-86 respectively.
B. Financing
5.02        The IDA would finance US$20(SDR18) million or about 70% of
total project costs, representing 75% of costs net of taxes and
duties.  Government would finance the remaining US$7.7 million (30%),
as shown below in Table V-2.   The IDA credit will cover the foreign
exchange cost and about 65% of local costs net of taxes and duties,
and will be extended on the usual IDA terms.   Government will assume
the foreign exchange risk. Retroactive financing totalling US$250,000
is recommended to initiate project unit operations in MUDH and HSB,
purchase water pipes, provide initial advisory services for detailed
design and engineering, and to begin training, covering expenditures
incurred after January 1, 1982.
Table V-2
FINANCING
Total Cost           flamcid by:
Item                 B'000            IDA          Governmient
Site development
and servicing;
maintenance                   8,005      5,604 (70%)      2,401 (30%)
Compensation                     704           -              704 (100%)
Solid waste equipment          1,002       1,002 (100%)         -
Construction loans and
Kebele Development Fund      37,754     26,797 (70%)     10,957 (30%)
Training, advisory
services, studies,
vehicles & equipment          3,840      3,840 (100%)         -
Salaries/Operations of
IXUDH, HSB, CA                5,938      4,157 (70%)      1,781 (30%)
TOTAL             Birr   57,243      41,400 (72%)     15,843 (28%)
US$    27,653     20,000             7,653



- 38 -
ETHIOPIA
LRRAN DEVELO9MENr PROJECT
TAOLE V-1
PROJECT rOSTS
--- ---- BIRR 000---------    ------------u SSooo ---------
SITE DEVELIWNEN  MD SERVICING                  PERCENT
SERVICED SITES-TElAS SILK                    FOREI1,H  LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL         LOCAL      FOREIGN    TOTAL
----- -  --- _-------- -     - -  - --------_ --- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ----
ROADS                                        0.65    406.74    755.37   1162.10    196.49    364.91    561.40
8ATdAGE                                      0.00    il.13                 118.80      57.39                 57.39
WATER                                        0.55    220.14    26?.06    4a,.20    106.35    129.98    236.33
ELECTRRICITY                                 0.80      51.26    2105.04    256.30      24.76      99.05    123.82
SUB TOTAL                                           ,9a.94   1229.47   2026.40    3E4.99   5s3.94    978.94
'iP6RADINa - TEKLE-HAlhANOr
ROADS                                        0.65    319.59    593.52    S13.10    154.39    2l.72    441.11
DRAINAGE                                              706.70               706.70    341.40                 341.40
,ATER                                        0.55      46.67     57.04    103.70       22,54      27.55      50.10
COG,,ENSATION                                         510.00               510.00    24S.36                 246.38
SUBIOTAL                                          1582.95    650.55   2233.50    7S4.71    314.28   1079."
COMAERCIAL - INDUSTRIAL SITES                  0.65      43.23      80.28    123.50      20.88      39.78      59.66
SOLID WASTE EQUIPMENT                          1.00                845.00    845.00                408.21    408.21
AIANTEIENHCE EQUIPMENT                         1.00              2000.00   2000.00                 566.18    966.18
CONSTRUCTION LOMdS
S.TE i  SERVICE                                0.15  13437.23   2271.28  15008.50   6491.41   1145.54   7636.96
u;sRADT1il                                     0.15   2767.60    4S8.40   2256.00  127,50    235,94   1572.95
i; 2-11iAL/riNDIST1IAL EXT.                    0,15   1659.20    292.S0   1952.00    801.55    141,45    943.00
O      1hER !65n AREAS SELF-HELP               0.1l   ,462.5s    7S7.50   5253.00   2155.60    380.43   2536.23
501.TOTAL                                    22326,53   393,.,S  262G6.50  10701.76   1903.37  12609.13
KEiEEE [EVELOPMENT FUND
!IUM'1-llY CENTERS                             0.15    467.50       82.5)    550.00    225.85       39,86    265.70
P:,'ARY  SCHOOLS                              0.15    163,50    158.50    670.00    275.12         40.55    323.67
g;RNETS                                        0.15   o656,00    150.00   1(0.03    410.63          72.46    483.09
,IL.r n,EVELOFPMENT FUND                       0.1S    425.00       7S500  _550.30    205.31        36.23    241.55
SUOlOTTAL                                     2312.00    408.00   2720.00   1116.91    197.10   1314.01
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
MANAGEMENT
GA--EGUIPMENT                                0.20      77.60     19.40      97.00      37.49       9.37      46.86
--S,;LhR1E3i0f1ReiT10S                     0.20    !16.01      519.0    272..o      104.35     26.09    130.43
3U,TOTAL                                          9        .2.40    :67.00    141,84      35.46    177.29
$M'12- -ElUliMENT                            0. 3      611.00     1.30     4 10.,16    173.91     43.48    217.39
- -SALARIES /OPERATIONNS                0?20   292G,.O      ;70.0C    350O.00    1410.63    352.68   1763.29
S,ITOTAL                                     30.G0         O       ,l3,00   15S3.54    396.14   19O0.69
HSi-- EQUIPM,ENI                             3, 0    11.00      20.00    tO0.00       69.57      17.39      16.96
-- SALARIES! OPERATION S                 0.20    ^64.080   i16.00    580.0        224.15      56.04    280.19
SUBTOTAL                                       '. C       52.55    760.00    293.i2       73.43    367.15
SUBTOTAL                                      41.1.60   1045.40   ;227.D0  02020.!0    505.02   2525.12
TRAINING                                       1.00       0.C0    53P,80    581.10                 284.44    2S4.44
ADVISORY SERVICES                              0.67    176.70    35G,92    135.70        F5.10    173.39    250.79
STUDIES
URRAN  TRANSPORT                             0.85      46.h8    263.93    310.50       22.50    127.50    150.00
MA'NTENANCE                                  0.91       ?.26    176.74    414.00       18.00    182.00    200.00
FUTURE PROJECT   PREP.                       0.98       7.94    486.G6    496.80        4.50     ,J .20    240.00
SUBTOTAL                                        3.77   1127.53   1221.30        45.30    544.70    590
TTiAL DASL COST                              1153. )9  12273.91  43537./0  15229.05   5929.43  21153.48
PHISiCAL  CONTINGENCIES                        2;T1,39    535.95   1117.34    21s0.6    211.91    53,.ia
PRICE CONTIN6ENCIES                           8661.40   2677.30  12338.70   4"67.34   1293.38   5960.73
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          41756.58  15487.16  1'243.74  20172.26   7481.72  27653.98



- 39 -
5.03         Funds for servicing of new sites and construction loans
totalling US$11.3 million would be onlent to the HSB of which IDA's
portion would be US$7.9 million.   Another US$6.2 million would be
onlent to the CA for roads and drainage in serviced sites, upgrading
including compensation, solid waste equipment, maintenance, the kebele
development fund, and studies on maintenance and urban transport of
which US$4.1 would be IDA funds.   Terms for IDA funds onlent to HSB
and the CA would be 8% over 25 years, with five years grace, which is
about 2 points above the current domestic savings rate.   These terms
were discussed at negotiations.   The remaining US$8.0 million of IDA
funds  will  be  retained   by  government,   representing  costs  of
management, advisory services, training, future project preparation,
and US$4 million towards HSB's capitalization (para. 3.38).
5.04       The flow of funds (Table V-3) will differ slightly from on-
lent amounts as MUDH will handle initial procurement of certain assets
which will ultimately revert to other agencies.   This will simplify
auditing requirements under the project and enhance accountability.
About B14.5 (US$7) million would be initially channeled through MUDH,
B7.3 (US$3.5) million through the Central Association and the majority
of funds, B35.4 (US$17.1) million through HSB.
Table V-3
FLOW OF FUNDS
Total Cost       Agency Initially Handling Funds
Component           (Birr '000)   MUDH             CA             ESB
SITE DEVELOPMENT/SERVICING
Serviced Sites             2,898       2,898
Upgrading                  3,256       3,256
Commercial/ Industrial
Extensions                 180                                        180
Solid Waste Equipment      1,003       1,003
Maintenance                2,373                      2,373
CONSTRUCTION LOANS          34,212                                     34,212
KEBELE DEVLLOPMENT FUND      3,542                     3,542
Comiunity Centers, Schools,
and Pilot Fund
Markets
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Management                 6,810       5,325           512              973
Training                     748         748
Studies                    1,527         617           910
Advisory Services            694         694
TOTAL     Birr    57,243       14,541         7,337          35,365
US$     27,653       7,024          3,544          17,085



- 40 -
C. Disbursements
5.05      The IDA will disburse against the following items:
Table V-4
DISBURSEMENTS
Amount        SDR's
Category                 %           US$'000    SDR'000
I.    Civil Works                 70% of local or   1,550           1,390
100% of foreign
II.   Maintenance                 70% of local or       800           720
100% of foreign
III.  Loans for construction
of homes, related
service, and equipment    70%                 11,650        10,470
IV.   Kebele Development Fund   70%                   1,200         1,080
V.    Equipment, Staff
Salaries & Operations
a.  MUDH                                       1,850         1,670
b.  CA                      70% of local or      650           590
c.  HSB                    100% of foreign       350           310
VI.   Training, Advisory
Services & Studies
a.  MUDH                    70% of local or      950           860
b.  CA                     100% of foreign       450           410
VII.  Unallocated                                       550           500
TOTAL                                         20,000        18,000
5.06           Disbursements  for  civil works,  consultancy,  training,
studies, maintenance, markets and all major equipment representing
about $5.5 million would be made against fully documented contracts
and receipts.   Expenditures  for house  loans,  community  facilities
built by kebeles, and staff salaries and operations, totaling US$14.5
million would be made against a statement of expenditure (SOE), backup
documentation for which would be kept on file for periodic inspection
during supervision missions, since these items would be individually
small and done in some cases by force account.  The HSB has a satis-
factory  accounting  and  audit  system  for  maintaining  SOE's.    The
Central Association and MUDH, however, both need improvement. It was
confirmed at negotiations that the establishment of a system of proj-
ect accounts and audits for MUDH and the CA satisfactory to IDA would
be a condition of disbursement for all items on which a statement of
expenditures will be used.   The estimated schedule of disbursements
(Table V-5) reflects the project's implementation schedule (Chart
23448), which allows five years from startup to closure plus an anti-
cipated disbursement lag of two years, totalling seven years overall.
This is somewhat shorter than the urban profile which is closer to
eight to nine years. However, the profiles reflect a narrow sample of
completed operations which were larger and more ambitious first
generation projects.  Many of the lessons learned from earlier urban
projects have been applied to the design of this one which should
expedite implementation. This, together with the modest scope of the
project makes a seven year disbursement period realistic.



- 41 -
TABLE V-5
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Bank                                                                    X Cumulative
Fiscal Year      Quarter         Date         Disbursed- Cumulative    Disbursed
1983             1      Sept. 30, 1982
2      Dec. -31, 1982
3      March 30, 1983         .1           .1           0.5
4      June  30, 1983         .2            .3          1.5
1984             1      Sept. 30, 1983         .2            .5          2.5
2      Dec.  31, 1983         .2           .7           3.5
3      March 30  1984         .3          1.0           5.0
4      June  30, 1984         .4          1.4           7.0
1985             1      Sept. 30, 1984        0.8           2.2         11.0
2      Dec.  31, 1984       1.0           3.2          16.0
3      March 30, 1985       1.5           4.7          23.5
4      June  30, 1985       1.5           6.2          31.0
1986             1      Sept. 30, 1985       1.5           7.7          38.5
2      Dec.  31, 1985       1.5           9.2          46.0
3      March 30, 1986       1.5          10.7          53.5
4      June  30, 1986       1.8          12.5          62.5
1987             1      Sept. 30, 1986        1.0         13.5          67.5
2      Dec.  31, 1986       1.0          14.5          72.5
3      March 30, 1987.      1.0          15.5          77.5
4      June  30, 1987       1.0          16.5          82.5
1988             1      Sept. 30, 1987        0.8         17.3          86.5
2      Dec.  31, 1987       0.8          18.1          90.5
3      March 30, 1988       0.5          18.6          93.0
4      June  30, 1988       0.5          19.1          95.5
1989             1      Sept. 30, 1988        0.6         18.7          98.5
2      Dec.  31, 1988       0.3         -20.0         100.0
D. Cost Recovery/Affordability
Cost Recovery
5.07          The majority of project costs (69%) will be recovered
directly from beneficiaries either throuLgh mortgage payments or
community charges collected by kebeles.   These costs include house
loans, on-site water and electrical services, compensation, and
community facilities. Another 16% will be repaid indirectly through
municipal revenues including costs of roads and drainage, solid waste
equipment, maintenance,  and  studies.   Recent government directives
have made it clear that the municipality is expected to be financially
self-sufficient,   and  government  subventions  are  to  terminate.
Repayment would therefore come entirely from city revenues (see



- 42 -
para.3.49).   The remaining 15% representing management,  training,
advisory services and future project preparation would be borne by
government, as shown in Table V-6.  These cost recovery principals
were confirmed at negotiations. They reflect prevailing practice for
all income groups in Addis and with 85% of costs recovered directly or
indirectly, achieve sufficient cost recovery to make the program
replicable. Since interest rates are expected to remain positive in
real terms (para. 5.11) no erosion in cost recovery should occur from
this source.
-bl- V-6
ODST RICOVUTr
(3 '000)
bt1 Cost               1ev? Sorc
Including      )tuty Pata  Cut. A.   Vt.
om_annt      AUl Goutingencis   Z  by Beneficiaries  Taxes  PAvmnue
Serviced Site ad
Upgzading
loads aLd Duanap    4,226    8S               4,226
Water                863    22        863
raupm.aat~s .703    12                703
U*Cttinctr           358    .52      358
Caecil/d
cal.                  2.80    -       180
.ll.d Waste Equipmt  1.002   1.52               1,002
_alntm.aues       2.373     42               2,373
=au%tuctu Los"      34,212    602    34,212
label Dsvelopm_t Dud  3,542    62    3,200       342
Project Nanguesut    6,810    122                        6,810
T!a8ng                 748 - 1                            748
Advis= S.zviae        698      12                         698
studie               1,52i     32                910      GIs
mL        57,243           39,516     8,853    8,874
pralsWt 1002   12             692       162      152
5.08       Unit Costs:  January 1982 plot development and servicing
costs per household are about B630 (US$300) in serviced sites and B320
(US$150) in upgraded areas, or B120 (US$55) and B60 (US$30) per capita
respectively including management and interest during construction.
Recovery of the majority of servicing costs will be through municipal
taxes and revenues, the vehicle for recouping road and drainage in-
vestments which comprise 56Z and 73% of total serviced site and up-
grading servicing costs respectively. Most of the remainder will come
from direct charges with only about 10% covered by general government
revenues.   Addition of optional house loans brings the average per
capita cost to B1,130 (US$545) for serviced sites, the vast majority
of which (93%)  will be  repaid through mortgages with government
revenues  contributing  only  1%  of  total  development  costs-an
acceptable level to ensure replicability of the serviced site
concept.   For upgrading the comparable figure is B135 (US$65) per
capita, of which over half is directly recoverable, a third paid
through municipal revenues and the remaining 12% through community
charges.
5.09     A premium will be added to the development cost of well-lo-
cated commercial plots, the exact amount of which will be established
at the time of plot allocation. However, this potential cross-subsidy
has not been relied upon for the project's affordability analysis



- 43 -
since plot development costs are a small proportion (14%) of the total
development cost and the impact of cross-subsidy is minor at best.
Markets will generate a handsome return, recovering investment costs
at 12% interest within four years, and supplementing city revenues
thereafter.
5.10       Mortgage Terms:  Mortgage loans will be extended to cooper-
atives or individuals at not less than an effective 11% interest rate
over about 20 years representing a 9% nominal rate, plus surcharges
for survey, collection/default, mortgage redemption and fire insurance
totalling 2%. During negotiations these terms were confirmed.
5.11        The effective 11% rate should represent a positive rate of
return throughout the 20 year life of the loan based on the Associa-
tion's best estimate of inflation, and is several points above the
current commercial bank rates of 8-9% for medium term loans.  No other
bank offers comparable long-term loans.   It represents a doubling of
the HSB's current 6% rate on a similar ongoing self-help project
assisted by the European Economic Community (EEC) and is the same rate
charged higher income groups on new construction.  All interest rates
in Ethiopia are fixed by government and the HSB is the only
institution with a mandate for mortgage lending.   General inflation
has averaged about 10% per annum over the last four years, dropping
from 16.6% in 1978 to 14.3, 4.5 and 6.1 in 1979-81.  Inflation is not
expected to exceed about 10% annually over the project period.
Therefore at the time of mortgage commitment in 1983 and 1984 the 11%
rate is expected to be marginally positive, and should improve over
time if government is able to sustain the present downward trend of
inflation.   A higher rate would risk further entrenching inflation
since mortgages extend at least 20 years.   During negotiations,  the
HSB agreed to review the rate at the time of mortgage initiation and
to take all necessary measures to ensure that it is positive in real
terms.
Affordability
5.12      Monthly charges:  Total monthly charges for plots, dwellings
and recurrent utilities range from B3.70 (US$1.80) for upgrading to
B28.15 (US$13.60) for a single room dwelling in the serviced site
area,  to B42.65  (US$20.60) for a two room unit,  as shown below;
iNDNT CRAEU
Plot       Recurrent     /House           Proportion of Addis
PlotI1/  2eC                         H Households that can
Qiarge-  Water & Electrical-   Lo     t   Afford the Chare
@25% hh Inc @15% hh inc
Upgrading       1.00      2.70             -    3.70    -         922
Serviced Sites
-4me room unit
costing B2,200 2.45     1.20             24.50 28.15    352     -
-tw room unit
costing B3,500 2.45     1.20             39.00 42.65    23%     -
l  e 11% over 20 years, plot servicing charge of B87 for upgrading and 3218 for ss
2I Water3costs assume 80 l/hhJd or about 16 l/c/d, at current mouthly rates of B0.50
per a totalling B1.20. Elect=ical charges as,m tWi bulbs of 60 watts per hh,
appro-imtely 10 kwh per moth @ B0.15 per kLwh, total charge B1.50. Electrical
caection optional.



- 44 -
5.13        Both upgrading and serviced sites are affordable to those
below the absolute poverty line.  Assuming households could pay about
15% of their income for upgrading including recurrent costs, fully 92%
of the population can afford improved services. Because of the severe
erosion in real incomes over the past few years, however, (para.
1.23), serviced sites would be affordable only to the upper third of
the population, and are likely to be most in demand by the top 25%. A
one room unit would be affordable to about 35% of the population and a
two room unit to 23%, i.e. those at the absolute poverty line.   In
principle, therefore, even two room dwellings of concrete block are
affordable to the poverty group.   In practice,  however,  demand is
likely to be predominantly from those from the 75th percentile up (see
para. 6.14).
E. Financial Impact on CA and HSB
Central Association
5.14      Annual debt servicing and recurrent costs  to the Central
Association arising from the project will total about B723,000
(US$350,000), and will be paid through general rates and taxes.
Revenues from land and house taxes in project areas would cover about
20% of this total or B138,000 (US$67,000); the remaining B585,000
(US$283,000) represents only 1.8% of the CA's FY82 budget and this
proportion is likely to shrink further by the time debt servicing
begins. The CA's revenues grew at about 11% per annum from FY78-FY81.
Expenditures have remained below income, leaving an annual surplus
over the last three years ranging from B2 million to B5.5 million, or
almost eight times the projected debt servicing and recurrent costs of
the project (Table 20002). Assuming these prudent practices continue,
the municipality should have no difficulty carrying its financial
obligations under the project.
Housing and Savings Bank
5.15      Since HSB will handle most of the project funds, a cash flow
of their operations including the project has been prepared (Table
20003) along with projected balance sheets through 1986 (Table 20004)
and their projected income statement through 1986 (Table 20005). The
HSB would realise an average net profit (after provisions and taxes)
of about B 1 million (US$483,000) during the project implementation
period.   The projected HSB cash  flow shows  an annual  surplus  of
between B1.3 million (US$660,000) to B 7 million (US$3.4 million)
during the project implementation period.
F. Financial Covenants
5.16      Separate project accounts will be maintained by MUDH, CA and
HSB in accordance with an accounting system acceptable to IDA, and the
Ministry (MUDH) will be responsible for compiling consolidated project
accounts and reports. The MUDH, the CA and the HSB will submit to IDA
not later than 12 months after the close of each fiscal year, accounts
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA detailing project
expenditures to a degree acceptable to IDA, and HSB will, in addition,
submit similarly audited annual financial statements including balance
sheet, income statement, and statement of appropriation of profits or
surpluses.



- 45 -
VI. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      The project will be the Government's first major response to
the severe shortage of housing and residential services at all income
levels in Addis.   As noted in para. 2.01, it will help rebuild the
shelter delivery system and provide work sites, shelter, improved
services, and credit affordable to the general population of Addis--
the vast majority of whom fall below the absolute urban poverty
threshold.It will improve standards of living for the urban poor--a
stated  government  objective.    The  project  will  demonstrate  the
feasibility and popular acceptance of affordable shelter standards.
Perhaps most important, it will also strengthen the implementation
capacity  of  three  key  urban  institutions:    the  Urban  Dwellers'
Associations,  MUDH,  and the HSB.   These entities constitute basic
elements in the organizational framework for urban development.
Equally important, through stimulation of self-help, use of modest
shelter standards, and improved road and house maintenance, the
project will contribute toward more efficient use of Ethiopia's
domestic resources, conserving public funds and stimulating private
contributions through labor and savings.  None of the preceding have
easily quantifiable benefits.
A.   Rates of Return
6.02      The overall rate of return for project components for which
benefits can be quantified (90% of project costs--net of HSB's capita-
lization) is 24%.   This includes serviced sites for residential and
small industrial use, dwellings, management, and upgrading.   It ex-
cludes the kebele development fund, refuse and road maintenance equip-
ment, and institutional strengthening. The anticipated rate of return
is somewhat higher than usual for serviced site projects because there
has been so little construction during the past several years to meet
the growing demand for popular housing.   Imputed rents are therefore
high reflecting  scarcity value.   The separate  return for serviced
sites is 25% and for upgrading, 11%.   The low return on upgrading is
a reflection of the lack of price differentials in rent levels of re-
sidential units of differing qualities since house rents are admi-
nistered and generally reflect occupants payment capacities rather
than market factors.
6.03      In calculating rates of return, all economic costs were in-
cluded:   land, management,  design/engineering,  infrastructure,  com-
pensation, and all house construction, including physical contingen-
cies and maintenance. Taxes and interest were excluded. Annual main-
tenance costs were assumed to be 2% of capital costs.  Land was taken
as a benefit after 30 years (the end of the useful life of the house)
with no real increase in value.
6.04       Because nationalization of all urban land and extra houses
terminated private land sales and rental over six years ago, the above
rate of return analysis is necessarily a rough approximation.  Econo-
mic values of rents and land--two crucial variables--are particularly
difficult to estimate in the present context.



- 46 -
Rents
6.05        Shortly before nationalization, rents for popular housing
were frozen and then cut in half for all low-income dwellings a year
later. Construction of new housing thereafter dropped sharply so the
scarcity value of housing has risen faster than general inflation
while rents have been held constant. Only hotels rent rooms at market
prices. Due to the acute housing shortage, some families have occu-
pied hotels  for months while seeking permanent accommodation.   The
sale of private housing is permitted, but is rare, since housing is in
such short supply that new accommodation usually cannot be found. The
rental value of proposed residential development was therefore imputed
from hotel rents and scattered sales data. Rental prices in hotels of
a quality comparable to dwellings being built under the project range
from B3-B7 per person per night, usually occupying one room depending
on location and quality. The increase in rental value of dwellings in
the area to be upgraded is conservatively estimated at about 1.5%.
Land
6.06         Since breaking the highly concentrated pattern of land
ownership existing before the revolution remains a prime government
objective, land distribution to low-income people is of high priority
regardless of its value for alternative uses.   Moreover, in the ab-
sence of this project there is the likelihood the Nefas Silk sites
would become an unplanned settlement. In estimating economic rates of
return, however, it was assumed that the best alternative use for
project sites would be high-income residential development and land
values were established on this basis.   The opportunity cost of the
Nefas Silk site is therefore relatively high, since it is well located
near job opportunities, markets, and transport links.  The estimated
value was checked against pre-nationalization prices inflated by the
retail price index.   The resulting land values are B50 per m2 along
the Debre Zeit road and B30 per m2 for the rest of Nefas Silk.  Land
value constitutes about half of the total investment in housing and
site development.
Sensitivity
6.07      Sensitivity analysis was done to indicate the effect of in-
accuracy in estimating these two crucial variables and the impact of
cost overruns.  If rental values have been over or under estimated by
as much as 50% either because of changes in the rental market over
time or imprecise current estimates, the overall 25% rate of return
for site development and construction loans would still be between 12%
and 34%. If land values have been over- or underestimated by as much
as 50%, the rate of return would show no significant difference. Con-
struction delays of up to two years leading to cost overruns of up to
30% would drop the overall return to 19%, still a viable figure.
B. Poverty Impact/Replicability
6.08        As noted above, the majority of funds under this project
will go to HSB for the serviced site component.   The standards of
dwellings and services to be built are exceptionally modest and leave



- 47 -
no real scope for any further reduction. Even so, the serious erosion
is real incomes in recent years has led to a situation where these
plots are most likely to taken up by the top 25%-30% of the urban
popuLation.   Since Addis is largely poor, even this population earns
only  modest  sums.   Institutional  strengthening  and  rebuilding  the
volume of housing finance are, however, the key project objectives
here rather than direct poverty lending.
6.09        The only effective way to address the needs of the urban
poor is through upgrading. The balance of the credit will go toward
improving infrastructure, community facilities and municipal services
which affect the daily lives and productivity of this population, and
to strengthen the institutions which deliver these services.   Hope-
fully a continuing line of credit will be established with HSB to
enable communities to continue this process of spreading capital in
affordable amounts.
6.10        Average per capita costs including servicing, management,
and construction or improvement of dwellings total US$65 for upgrading
and US$545 for serviced sites (para. 5.08).  At these costs it would
require only about US$27 million to service thea existing backlog, and
twice that to include house improvement loans. Because of constraints
in administrative capacity, at the present pace it would take about 40
years to upgrade those needing it. As noted in Chapter One, however,
this project is intended to initiate the upgrading process and has
therefore  been  kept  to  a  demonstration  size.    The  pace  should
accelerate as experience is gained, considerably telescoping the re-
quired time frame. With 69% of total project costs recovered directly
through monthly charges affordable to the beneficiaries, 16% through
municipal taxes and only 15% through governmenl: revenues, the subsidy
requirements are well within acceptable limits and the project is re-
plicable for the Ethiopian economy.
C. Risks
6.11      The major risks faced by the project involve possible delays
resulting from limited administrative capacity in MUDH and the CA, and
the possibility that serviced plot takeup will be dampened by conti-
nued erosion in affordability noted in preceding sections of this re-
port, a risk that might be exacerbated by higher-than-anticipated in-
flation.   Neither is unique in urban operations and the project has
been designed to minimize potential disruptions from these sources to
the extent possible.
6.12      Startup on first projects tends to be slow, and professional
manpower in the newly reorganized MUDH is already scarce and needs to
be rebuilt, resulting in possible delays. Since this risk is predict-
table, project design has taken it into accolant.   Design standards
have been kept simple, and the project size was further scaled back at
re-appraisal and dimensioned to what is considered achievable over the
four-year implementation period.  A gradual startup has been allowed
for in the schedule.   Staff development training programs under the
project should help overcome manpower constraints by improving staff
effectiveness and productivity. Funds are also available for advisory
services to help break skilled manpower bottlenecks, should they
occur.



- 48 -
6.13       Another feature of the administrative risk involves the un-
proven capacity of the Urban Dwellers' Associations (kebeles) to
staff, operate and maintain the community facilities and services pro-
vided through the project and to repay the associated loans.   Their
proposed role has been tailored to gradually expanding activities in
which they are already engaged, with the pace of expansion geared to
what appears achievable over the next few years.    Loan funds for
community facilities will be approved upon demonstration of reasonable
implementation and collection capacity by each association which
should minimize this potential risk.  The proposed training programs
should  also  help  strengthen  management  capabilities.    Given  the
kebele's  central  role  in  future  urban  development,   this  task
represents a major opportunity for institution building.
6.14        A second risk is the possibility that takeup of serviced
plots will be poor and/or that middle- and upper-income groups will
dominate these allocations. Recent declines in HSB's mortgage lending
evidence shrinking real incomes and the inability of a growing por-
tion of the population to afford homeownership.   Despite successful
efforts to make serviced sites technically "affordable" to those at
the 65th percentile, these families may by now feel too insecure to
risk a major investment.  Since such families fall well below the ab-
solute poverty line, other needs may prove more pressing. Should this
occur, serviced sites might either remain unallocated or end up in the
hands of the top 10-20% of the population--most of whom, it should be
noted--are only just above the poverty line (the 77th percentile)
themselves.
6.15      To minimize the risk of plots not being taken up at all, al-
locations will precede servicing, and families will initiate house
construction prior to construction of infrastructure. Once demand is
known, servicing will follow. Preventive measures are more difficult
to design for the second facet of this risk--that of greater demand by
upper income groups.   Poorer families will receive priority for the
70%  of  plots  reserved  for  the poverty group.   Should demand  not
materialize, however, these plots will be allocated to others to en-
sure project benefits are realized. This would probably increase the
economic rate of return--since upper-income housing is even scarcer
than lower-income, but would reduce the proportion of urban poor
directly benefitting from the project.  Under this scenario, assuming
80% of plot recipients were above the poverty line, the portion of the
credit directly benefitting the urban poor would drop from 55% to
about 40%.      In terms of population affected, however,  the impact
would be marginal with the proportion of urban poor dropping from 83%
to about 74%.
6.16        Finally, there exists the possibility that the anticipated
surge in construction activity over the next few years, stimulated by
the renewal of Bank and IDA operations, could fuel excessive inflation
or, if government were to control prices, outright unavailability of
certain building materials such as cement, hardwood, iron sheets,
etc., and of transport.  Such inflation would exacerbate the afforda-
bility problem, and shortages would dampen demand or seriously delay



- 49 -
house construction.  The possibility of a materials shortage has been
addressed in three ways:  (a)  dwelling designs minimize to the extent
possible the use of materials known to be in short supply and allow
for a variety of materials, (b) MUDH will ensure project participants
receive a measure of priority in the allocation of materials, and (c)
funds have been provided to explore new construction techniques using
materials  which  are  widely  available,  and  to  help  merchandise
materials that appear commercially feasible from ongoing experiments
such as the PKG block.    In addition, government plans for expanding
capacities  for  existing  factories  have  been  given  priority  for
implementation.  Overall, the quantity of bui:Lding materials required
for the project is not a significant proportion of total production.
Government  has  shown  some  capacity  for  controlling  inflationary
pressures (para. 5.11) and may continue to do so.  This represents,in
any event,a Bank-wide risk and is no more acute for the urban project
than for other sectors.
6.17      The preceding administrative and financial risks are clearly
worthy of continuing close attention during project implementation.
They are, however, not unusual to urban projects, and have been taken
into account  in project design.   Expected benefits should outweigh
these potential risks.



- 50 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The following are recommended as conditions of processing of the
project:
Conditions of Effectiveness (supplementary to the General Conditions)
(a)  appointment  of  the Director  of  the  MUDH  project  unit  (para.
3.09);
(b)  assignment of HSB's Senior Accountant, one loan officer and one
engineer (para. 3.40), and
(c)  execution of subsidiary loan agreements with the CA and HSB.
Conditions of Disbursement
(a) establishment of a system of project accounts and audits for MUDH
and the CA satisfactory to IDA for all items on which a statement
of expenditure will be used (para. 5.06).
7.02         During negotiations the following additional major agreements
were confirmed:
With respect to HSB that:
(a)  the HSB  should make  an annual  review  of  the  quality  of  its
mortgage portfolio and should set aside regular annual provisions
for bad debts (para. 3.34);
(b)  with respect to the "ALD  portfolio, the HSB should proceed with
auctioning properties.   In the event  no private buyer can be
found at an acceptable price, ownership should be transferred to
the Ministry's Rental Housing Agency which should undertake
servicing of the debt (para. 3.35);
(c)  with respect to land loans, HSB should proceed with legal and
other means to get borrowers to produce the necessary evidence to
qualify for exemption.   However, progress                  should be
monitored closely through an annual report                   beginning
December 31, 1982 and if, within three years these loans are not
cleared, HSB should be allowed to write them off (para. 3.36);
(d)  government should enable HSB to build its reserves by permitting
HSB to retain its surplus earnings at the maximum rate allowable
under Proclamation No. 163/79 whenever its general reserve fund
falls below 60% of its paid-in capital due to losses (para.
3.37);
(e)  government should strengthen HSB's capital base through transfer
of B12 million of government and IDA funds to HSB on a grant
basis (paras. 3.38) and 5.03);



- 51 -
(f) costs of house loans, on site water and electrical services,
compensation, and community facilities will be recovered directly
from  beneficiaries.    Costs  of  roads,  drainage,  solid  waste
equipment, maintenance, and studies will be borne by the CA.
Costs of management, training, advisory services and future
project preparation would be borne by government (para. 5.07);
and
(g) mortgage loans will be extended at a.9% nominal interest rate
plus various surcharges totaling about 2x' (para. 5.10).
With respect to the CA that:
IDA will review and approve the first four loans under the Kebele
Development Fund and that subsequent loans will conform to
criteria satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.11).
With respect to Government that:
families will  be allowed  to  build  dwellings  in  a  range  of  sizes  and
materials commensurate with their capacity to pay (para. 2.09);
(b) a Coordinating Committee will be formed to coordinate project
implementation consisting of standing representatives of MUDH,
HSB, CA, EELPA, and AAWASA (para.3.02).
(c)  the HRDD project unit will be adequately staffed with full time
personnel responsible solely for the project; the qualifactions
and experience of key staff (Director and Section Heads) or any
subsequent replacements will be acceptable to IDA; and the Heads
of the Finance, Social and Technical Divisions of the MUDH
project unit will be appointed not later than February 28, 1983
(para. 3.09);
(d)  the unit will be assigned responsibility for (a) staff control,
(b)  inventory  control,  and  (c)  commitment  authority  (with
appropriate ministerial approvals), and procurement and actual
payments including establishment of a separate bank account
(para. 3.10);
(e)  eligibility criteria for serviced plots in Addis and house loans
in other urban areas will include: (a) household head of age 18
or over, (b) willingness to participate in self-help program, and
(c) a reasonably regular formal or informal household monthly
income of below B170 or the 77th percentile of the urban income
curve for at least 70% of the plots in serviced project sites and
all dwellings financed through the HSB's fund in other urban
areas (para.4.03); and
(f)  terms for IDA funds onlent to the HSB and CA of 8% over 25 years
with five years grace (para. 5.03).
7.03        Subject to agreement on the above, this project is recommended
for an IDA credit of US$20 million.



- 52 -
ANNEXES



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
Urban Development Project
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. GOVERNMENT PROJECT PROPOSAL(S) SURVEYS
1.  Urban Development Project Phase 1, Preliminary Development Proposal
by Housing Development and Research Department (MUDH). March 1978.
(Government project proposal)
2.  Upgrading:  Existing Conditions/Proposed Development; the Tekle
Haimanot. Johannes Hailu, Department of Architecture, Faculty of
Technology, University of Addis. January 1978.
3.  Urban Development Project, Small-Scale Industries, Nefas Silk
Industrial Estate. HASIDA/AIDB/MUDH. September 1977.
4.  Proposal for Establishing Handicrafts and Small-Scale Industries
Cooperatives at "Kebele" levels for generating employment. MUDH.
March 1977.
B. BANK CONSULTANTS REPORTS
1.  Report on Small-Scale Industries by Wynn Roberts (consultant),
June 1977.
2.  Report by S. E. Wakeham and A. C. Godavitarne (consultants) on
Project Design Standards and Cost Estimates, July 1978.
3.  Report by Alexander Grant & Co., (consultants) on MUDH, HSB and
Urban Dwellers' Associations, July 1978.
4.  Report by S. E. Wakeham of August 10, 1981 on updated project
costs.
C. GOVERNMENT PROCLAMATIONS
1.  Establishment of the Housing and Savings Bank; No. 60 of 1975.
2.  Nationalization of Urban Lands and Extra Urban Houses; No. 47 of
1975.
3.  Urban Dweller's Associations Consolidation and Municipalities
Proclamation; No. 104 of 1976.
4.  Administration and Control of Schools by the Peasant and Urban
Broad Masses (draft) September 1976.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
D. GENERAL REPORTS AND STUDIES
1. Electricity Tariffs for the Self-Contained Systems, Ethiopian
Electric Light and Power Authority. February 1972.
2. Electricity Tariffs for the Interconnected System. Ethiopian
Light and Power Authority. February 1972.
3. Cooperatives and Urban Participation in Ethiopia: A Preliminary
Analysis, Peter Koehn, Department of Political Science,
University of Montana. December 1975.
4. A Preliminary Analysis of the relationship between household
income and expenditure pattern on house rent during government
and semi-government employees. Housing Development and Research
Department. MUDH, September 1977.
5. List of Documents with Central Files.



- 55 -
Ethiopia
Urban Development Project
EXISTING CONDITIONS
IN
TEKLE HAIMANOT
   Severe erosion is evident
in existing roads--many
of which were stoned  by
the community years ago.
Drainage channels run
alongside and are often
used by residents for washing.
y-    -     --Electrical services are avail-
able to over 90% of residents.
Informal "pirated" connections
are often taken off formal ones
Water points are shared by several
hundred families and rarely have
adequate drainage. Lines form very
early and often remain until late.   i
__
Most homes are made of chicka (mud and-
daub supported by a wooden frame) with
~~ ~corrugated iron or asbestos
roofs. Roadways are wide
despite their poor condit-
ion and upgrading is fairly easy.






- 56 -
Ethiopia
Urban Development Project
KEBELE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
A new community center built through community contributions in one of the poorer
kebeles in Addis Ababa. The facility is located in a central communal area to-
gether with the kebele offices, shops, school and library for students
'-E   |   Older, dilapidated housing
has been demolished to make
way for the new facilities,
and is being replaced with new chicka
units in the same kebele.
|  .,,,,,.,,,.,,,,,:   ,   k'






- 57 -
Ethiopia
Urban Development Project
KEBELE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
5 Two volunteers prepare the foun-
dation for a new student library
~~ ~A kebele employee works
full time on the comple-
tion of a new primary
school.  The school is built of con-
Crete block with plastered finish and
contains a dozen classrooms.
A kebele-built, water tower pro-
vides both storage and pressure              1. ... .        - ...
for water service to facilities
located in the community center   a
'7                      1






- 58 -
CHARTS AND TABLES






ETHIOPIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project Year                                      2                                   4
Calendar Year        1982              1983                1984               1985               1986               1987
1  2        1                                                                        417T 7
-    6,rQkrd Effecti nesd                        -Comptbtjth
START-UP                          Project Units Establishment/Staffing               i .
Prequalification (Roads/Drainage)
,.,,,...-     .,,....,,..         ''.'.','           .,.,.,-.             .. ..-.
NEFAS SILK                        Detailed Design/Eng. and Soil Tests
Site andService                   Tendering
Team 1                            Block Survey/Plot Demarcation
Advertisement/Allocation Plots                                               .....     .         ....
Group Formation/Loan Processing
Dwelling Construction                                                                                   -        -       m              -
Occupancy                                                                                                       --
Civil Works -Roads and Drainage
-Water                                         trOII  NAIM014IIT                moop~..                                                                         n
-Electric                                                                                                                                     ..               I
TEKLE HAMIANOT                    Detailed Design/Eng.                                                                             .                   ....               ....
Upgrading                         Community Consultation
Team 2                            Resettlement |
Tendering
Civil Works - Roads andDrainage
-Water
Construction Loans                                                                                                                                       . . .'.
COST RECOVERY                     Start-up Collections on S/S House Loans
Upgrading -Establishment ofn Cllection Unit
-House Registration
-Begin Collections                  |           ... ,,3                                                                                       ....
I I  I  [  1  1  1  ,, 1 1 1 1, l 1 . 1 , 1 1 1 1 E 1 1 | 3/ 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X-I......
TRAINING/STUDIES                  Orientation/Start-up Training                                          |'
Design of Program
Training
Studies                                                                      .............
| | t {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                                    ........                      3       1  t   t   i  : 1  -....
REFUSE/MTC                        DeveloPment Specs                                          ....
Tendering                                                 ...
Supply
MTC Training
KEBELE DEVELOPMENT FUND
Rains                                                                                         World Bank -23448
Ills. MTLS Supply



ETHIOPIA
FIRST URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MUDH ORGANIZATION
Minister
Audit and Inspection
Permanent
Secretary
Secretary            ~~~Centralized Services
Legal
Public Relations |
Organization &      |
Management           |
Financial and 
_   Administrative
Services
Planning a
Programming
Rental Housing    I              Housing Research                                                           Uran                                                 Town Pland
Administration    I                 Department                                                        and Development                                              Departion
ConstructIon  Proposed II a d                                   Urban                             Iogi aphW                                                       Lan I
E              |~~~~ Projectt Unit                                  Adi [                s                       Asoito              Pi i 3               i          Ad]min.
Unt                              .h tetre                  Unt                                                                                n              Ui
|  Offices 
World 8*nk- 196 79



ETHIOPIA
Urban Development Project
HSB ORGANIZATION
NATIONAL BANK
OF ETHIOPIA
GENERAL
MANAGER
DEPUTY GENERAL
MANAGER
7             | ~~~~COMMITTEES| 
|LCONTROL  | F ACCOUNTS  |                                                                       l   CREDIT          ENGINEERING          DIN           LEGAL SERVICE
|  DIVISION   l  DIVISION                                                                        DIVISION           DIVISION           DIVISION        DIVISION
LOAN ACCOUNT   FINANCIAL         REEARCH PLANNING          BRANCH               LASPRONLGENERAL
LOPANRACCONT         ACCOUNT        AND PUBLIC RELATIONS       OPERATION            LOPARMNSTOLETO                    DPERSOENNELRVCE
DEARMET        EPRTEN              DPATMNTDEPARTMENT    DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT                                    DEPARTMENT SRIE
ACOUNT             DEPOSIT                                                           ANEMI
LOAN s                                    _[I NS .                              RECRUiTMENT,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPRTEN
_   ACCOUNTS  _   ACCOUNTS                                  BRANCHES             INSURANCE                          RECRUITMENT,           MAIL
SECTION            SECTION                                                       SECTION                            PLACEMENT          PURCHASING
AND TRAINING           AND
SECTION          STATIONERY'
D1580RISEMENT |       CASH                                                         CONTRACTS                            SETOSCIN
7    SECTION   l                                                                C SECTION                                                  C ION
SeCTION                                                           SECTION                             SALARIES          SECURITIES
STAFF BENEFITS      MAINTENANCE
B S E C T I ON  '       k L A C C O U N T S   |                                   S ECF I N                           L A B O R           A N D
cl~~~~~~~~,,  s  E ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ ETINREAIOSMOTOR POOL
SECTION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ECINSECTION
World Bank - 23431



- 62 -
Ethiopia
First Urban Development Project
URBAN DWELLERS' ASSOCIATIONS
A. THE CENTRAL ASSOCIATION
CONGR ESS
68 Members; 2-5 Members
from each of the 25 Higher Associations
Standing
Committee ian            lunan
1 Mayor                                          Triebunal
5 Members                                         Mebr
Pltical       Financial        mehia           and strat ve        rinto
Department      Department       Department       Depanment
B. HIGHER ASSOCIATIONS (25)
HIGHER COUNCIL
26 Members, 2 from each
Kebeles Policy Committee
Policy Committee
15 Members
Executive    1            ulc       l l Inspection                      Judicial 
Committee           Safety Comm ittee          Com mittee            AppealI Tribunall
5 Members               3 Members               1 Member               3 Members      |
C. KEBELES (2891
CONGRESS
Full Kebele Membership of
between 500-1000 Households
Policy Committee
15 Members Elected by Congress
|    Executive  l   l   Public      l lWInspection                    BJudicial 1
| Commite       | | Safety Committe|              Committee          |     Tribunal      l
L 5 Membr            t   3 Members                 I   Member    l l 3 Members           l
World Bank -19692



- 63 -
Table 20000
Ethiopia
Urban Development Project
BSB SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
1976 - 1981
(B'000)
1976      1977        1978       1980a/     1981
Dec.      Dec.        Dec.        June      June
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Short-term Investments                   15,353      32,317      32,304      8,702    29,715
Accounts Receivable                                  282         396        .465        261        119
Sub-total                               15,635      32:,713     32,769      8,963    29,834
Trust Funds                                        4,273       4,220       3,891      4,836      5iO62
n-rt io in
Medium and Long-term Loans                        67,313      81,395    111,878    165,131   186,370
Less Proirisions                                  -1,204      -1,204     -1,204      -3,950  - 4,601
Sub-total                               66,109      80,191    110,674    161,181  181,769
Nationalized Equity Portfolio                        342         342         342         342      342
Fixed Assets                                       2,759       2,683       2,626      2,446    2,982
TOTAL ASSETS                            89.118    120.149    150,302    177,768  219,989
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilicies
Deposits                                          48,649      76,646    107,172    130,845   166,610
Accounts Payable                                   4,988       7,694       8,738      7,428    14,068
Sub-total                               53,637      84,340    115,910    138,273   180,678
Long-Term Debt
Foreign Borrowings                                   594         472         580         352       139
Domestic Borrowings                               27,550      27,550     26,667      31,783   30,300
Sub-total                               28,144      28,022      27,247      32,135   30,439
Trust Funds                                        4,273       4,220       3,931      5,072    5,861
Equity
Capital                                            6,000       6,000      6,000       6,000    6,000
Reserves                                              56          56         254        533       684
Retained Earnings                                 (2,992)    (2,489)    (3,040)    (4,245)  (3,673)
Net Equity                               3,064       3,567       3,214       2,288    3,011
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND,EQUITY            89,118    120,149    150,302    177,768   219,989
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Cash and Short Term Inv. as % Total Deposits          32%         42%         30%         7%       18%
Current Ratio                                        0.3         0.4         0.3         0.1       0.2
LT Debt/Equity                                       9:1         8:1       8.5:1       14:1       10:1
Portfolio/Total Assets                                76%         68Z         74%        93%        85%
Provision as % of Portfolio                          1.8%        1.5%          1%       2.4%       2.5%
Overall Debt/Equity (excluding Trusts)              27:1        31:1        45:1        74:1      70:1
aI Change in fiscal year, 18 months ending June 1980.



- 64 -
Table 20001
Ethiopia
Urban Development Project
HSB INCOME AND EXPENSES
1976 - 1981
(B'000)
a Unaudited
1976        1977         1978       1980,-'       1981
Dec.        Dec.         Dec.       June          June
INCOME
Interest Income                               5,873       7,271        8,320      16,883       13.385
Other Income                                    682          872       1,008        1.600       1,914
Total Income                        6,555        8.143       9,328       18,483       15,299
EXPENSES
Financial
Interest                                      4,384       5,118        5,918       11,058       9,640
Capital Charge on Equity (7.5%)                N.A.        N.A.          454          469         339
Sub-total                           4,384        5,118       6,372       11,527        9,979
Administrative
Salaries                                        881         915        I,172        2,042       1,686
Other Administrative                            256         202          411          731         473
Depreciation                                    270         197          239          491         158
Sub-total                           1,407        1,314         ,a822      3,264        2,317
Total Expenses                      5,791        6,432       8,194       14,791       12,296
NET INCOME (LOSS)                     764        1,711       1,34         3,692        3,003
PROFITS AND ALLOCATION
a.  Profit (Loss) Before Tax                      764       1,711        1,134        3,692       3,003
Tax                                           353         708          475       1.897        1,501
Balance                               411        1,003          659       1,795        1,502
b.  Provisions                                  2,600            -           -        2,745         652
Profit (Loss) After Tax                 (2,189)       1,003          659         (950)        850
and Provisions
c. Less: Reserve Fund                               -            -         198            -         151
Balance                            (2,189)       1,003          461        (950)         699
d. Less: Residual Surplus to
Government                            N.A.         N.A.          461           -          351
Balance                            (2,189)       1,003            -        (950)         348
e. Loss: On Exchange and Land
Loans Written off                     (806)        (500)        (551)       (255)        (348)
Balance                            (2,995)         503         (551)     (1,205)           -
f.  Add:  Prior Year's Adjustment                   3            -           -         _            572
Annual Net Profit/(Loss)           (2,992)         503         (551)     (1,205)         572
Cumulative Net Profit/(Loss)       (2,992)      (2,489)      (3,040)     (4,245)      (3,673)
RATIOS
INCOME AND EXPENSES
AS Z OF AVERAGE TOTAL ASSETS
Average Total Assets                         89,118     100,133      135,225     164,035      198,878
Gross Income                                    7.4         8.1          6.9       11.27          7.7
Administrative Expenses                         1.6         1.3          1.3         2.0          1.2
Profit Before Tax & Provisions                  0.9         1.7          0.8        2.3           1.5
Profit After Taxes & Provisions                (2.4)        1.0          0.5        (0.6)         0.4
INTEREST SPREAD
Interest Income as % of Average Portfolio       8.7         9.8          8.6       12.2           7.6
Interest Cost as x of Average Borrowing         5.7         5.6          5.0        7.2           5.4
Spread                                          3.0         4.2          3.6        5.0           2.2



- 65 -
ETHIOPIA                                 TABLE 20004
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESB PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS: 1982-86
(B'000)
Year Ending June 30                        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and Short-term Investments         31,080      35,143      41,691      50,820     57,877
Accounts Receivable                        119         119     _  119          119         119
Totals                                  31,199      35,262      41,810      50,939     57,996
Trust Funds                              4,687       4,312       3,937       3,562       3,187
Portfolio
Medium and Long-term Loans             212,518    243,306    280,399    316,315    346.639
Less Provisions                         -6,491      -8,515    -11,215    -14,235    -17 332
206,027    234,791    269,184    302,080    329,307
Nationalized Equity Portfolio              342         342         342         342         342
Fixed Assets                             3,039       2,983       2,885       2,636      2,527
Total Assets                           245,294    277,690    318,158    359,559    393,359
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Deposits                               196,610    226,610    256,610    286,610    316,610
Accounts Payable                        11,068       9,068       8,000       7,000      5,000
207,678    235,678    264,610    293,610    321,610
Long-Term Debt
Foreign Borrowings (Govt/IDA)                -       3,468      12,226      20,984     24,452
Domestic Borrowings                     28,817      27,334      25,851      24,368     22,885
28,817     30,802      38,077      45,352      47,337
Trust Funds                              5,486       5,111       4,736       4,361      3,986
Equity
Capital                                  6,000       8,000      12,000      16,000     18,000
Reserves                                   684         684         684         684         684
Retained Earnings                      (3,371)    (2,585)    (1,949)         (448)       1,7L2,
Net Equity                               3,313       6,099      10,735      16,236     20,426
Total Liabilities and Equity           245,294    277,690    318,158    359,559    393,359
Financial Ratios
1.  Current Ratio                          0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2        0.2
2.  Cash & Short-Term Investments          16X         16X        16.3         18X        18Z
As % of Total Deposits                                                       X
3.  LT Debt/Equity                         92.         5:1         4:1         3:^        2:1
4.  Portfolio/Total Assets                 87%         88%         88%         84%        84%
5.  Provisions as % of Portfolio            3%         33'!.        4%       4.5%          5%
6.  Overall Debt/Equity                   71:1        44:1        28:1       21:1        18:1



- 66 -
ETHIOPIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         TABLE 20005
HSB PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS: 1982-86
Year Ending June 30                        1982        1983       1984        1985        1986
INCOME
Interest Income                         18,165     20,861      24,089      28,038     31,867
Other Income                             2,013      2,294       2,649       3,084       3,505
Total Income                          20,178     23,155      26,738     31,122      35,372
EXPENSES
Fi-iancial
Interest                                12,204     13,421      15,164      16,296     18,096
Capital Charge                             501        501         651         951      1,251
Sub-Total                            12,705      13,922      15,815     17,247      19,347
Administrative
Salaries                                 2,219      2,547       2,941       3,423      3,890
Other Administrative                       605        695         602         934       1,061
Depreciation                               266        371         507         475         501
Sub-Total                             3,090       3,A13       4,250      4,832       5,452
Total Expenses                        15,795     17,535      20,065      22,079     24,799
Net Income (Loss)                      4,383      5,620       6,673       9,043     10,573
PROFITS AND ALLOCATION
Profit (Loss) Before Tax                 4,383      5,620       6,673       9,043     10,573
Tax                                      2,191      2,810       3,337      4,522       5,286
Provisions                               1,890      2,024       2,7Q0       3,020      3,097
Profit (Loss) After Tax &                  302        786         636       1,501      2,190
Provisions
Less: Reserve Fund                                 -           -          -           -           -
Less: Residual Surplus to Government 
Add: Prior Year's Adjustment                      -           -          -           -           -
(Loss) on Exchange & Lands Loans                   -          -           -           -           -
Written Off
Net Retained Earnings                      302        786         636       1,501      2,190
Cumulative Retained Earnings           (3,371)    (2,585)    (1,949).       (448)     1,742
INCOME AND EXPENSES
AS % OF AVERAGE TOTAL ASSETS
Average Total Assets                   232,641    261,492    297,924    338,858    376,459
Gross Income                               8.7        8.9         9.0         9.0        9.4
Administrative Expenses                    1.3        1.4         1.4         1.4        1.5
Profit Before Tax & Provisions             1.9        2.1         2.2         2.7        2.8
Profit After Taxes & Provisions            0.1        0.3         0.2        0.4         0.6
INTEREST SPREAD
Interest Income as % of Average
Portfolio                                 9.1       10.0        10.0        10.4       10.6
Interest Cost as % of Average Borrcwing  u,O          6.0         6.0        5.5         5.6
Spread                                     3.1        4.n         4.0         4.9        5.0



- 67 -
TABLE 20003
ETHIOPIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
USB PROJECTED CASH FLOW:  1982-86
(B'OOO)
YPar Ending June 30                   1982       1983        1984        1985        1986
SOURCES
Pretax Profits & Depreciation       4649        5991        7180        9518      11074
Government Equity Contributions                 2000        4000       4000        2000
Increase in Deposits               30000       30000       30000      30000       30000
Govt/IDA Loan                                   3468        8758       8758        3468
Loan Collections                    4227        5055        6040       7217        8519
Total Sources                    38876       46154      55978       59493       55061
USES
Increase ir. Mortgage Loans        30000       30000      30000       30000       30000
Urban Dev. Project:
Construction Loans                            5132      11974       11974        5132
Kebele Dev. Loans                              336        784         784         336
Purchase of Fixed Assets             323         315         409        226         392
Debt Amortization
Foreign Loan                       139           -          _
Domestic Loan                     1483        1483       1483        1483        1483
Trust Funds                          375         375        375         375         375
Taxes                               2191        2810       3337        4522        5286
Decrease in A/C's Payable           3000        2000       1068        1000        1000
Total Uses                       37511      42451       49430       50364       48004
Increase (Decrease) in Cash         1365        4063       6548        9129        7057



ETHIOPIA: URBAN DEVELOP.IEN' PnOJECT
TOTAL PPOJECT CASIi FLOWS
TOTAL           82           83            84           85            86           87            88           89            90           91
Government of Ethiopia                        15,843         1624.9        12395.0      1823.0
Xm                                           41,400                          518.0       682.0        9400.0       14100.0      1250.0         4200.0
Short-term Financing 1/                                                                16531.5        5623.2
EPAY>MNTS
Construction Loans 2/
Principal & Interest                                                                  687.0        2290.0        3893.0      4580.0         4580.0       4580.0        4580.0      4580.0
Kebele Dev. Fund 2/
Principal & Interest                                                                   71.0         237.0        403.0        474.0          474.0        474.0         474.0       474.0
TOTAL                                                 1624.9       12913.0      19794.5       17550.2       18396.0     17554.0         9254.0        93t.0         932.0       932.0
APPLICATIOWS
A. Site Development & Servicing
Nefas Silk                               2897.8                         763.6       1950.2                      184.0
Tekle-Hailannot                          3256.0                         703.8       1193.8        1358.4             -0
Commercial Indust. Extensions             180.0                                       90.0          90.0                                                                                         00
Solid Waste Equipment                    1002.6                        1002.6
Maintenance Equipment                     2373.0                       2373.0
B. Construction Loans                           34212.1                        5131.8     11974.2       11974.2        5131.9
C. Kebele Development Fund                       3542.8                         531.4      1240.0        1240.0         531.4
D. Institutioaal Development
CA-Equipment                              133.8                                      133.8
-Salaries/operations                    378.8                                      151.5         151.5          75.8
XUUH-Equipment                             526.4          263.2          263.2
-Salaries/operations                 4798.3           959.7        1199.6      1439.5         1199.5
H!SB-Eq'sipment                           210.6           103.3         105.3
-Salariea/operations                   762.4           152.5         190.6        228.7         190.6
Training                                  748.1            74.8         149.6        261.0         261.9
Advisory Services                          693.5           69.4          138.8       242,7         242.6
Urban% Transport Stuidy                   391.5                          39.1        176.2         176.2
Maintenance Study                         518.6                           51.9       233.3         233.4
Future Project Preparation                6t7.4             -             61,t       277.B        _2
Sub-total                            57243.7          1624.9       12706.0      19593.5       17396.2       5923.1
IDA Counitment Fee 31                                                       207.0        201.0         154.0          83.5        21.0                                                                H
Repayment of Short-term Loan 1/                                                                                     8909.0      8909.0         8909.0                                                 0'
TOTAL                                                 1624.9       12913.0    19794.5         17550.2       14915.6      8930.0         8909.0             -            -            -         (D
A.nuAL CASIH SURPLUS (Deficit)                                    _              _           -              _       3480.4      8624.0          345.0         932.0        932.0        932.0          O
ACCU1ULATED CASH SURPLUS (Deficit)                                -              .                                  3480.4     12104.4        12449.4      21769.4       31089.4      40409.4         0
0
I/ 3 yrs @ 10
V/  20 yrs@ 12%
I/ .5h of undisbursed Credit Balance



Ethiopia
Urban Development Project
CA BUDGETS FY78-FY81
(Birr)
I N c 0 1 1
Code Number                InOome Items                    1977-78            19788-79         1979-80         1980-81           1981-82
41 1-000     Direot Income                               3,603,132         4,348,099        4,269 807        6,909,9 13       7,950,000
412-000      Indiroot Income                               868,106         1,044,255        1,003,791          985,466        1,168,000
413-000      Forein Trade Taxation                       4,746,156         5,558,318        3,812,216        2,118,870        6,&00,000
414-000       Charges & Fees                             3,359,111         3,974,432        4,807,365        5,477,012        5,6)3,000
415-000       Sales of Goode & Services                  1,477,246         2,106,234        2,730,675        2,418,279         3,004,000
416-000       Rent of Munioipal Properties  B Rank
interest                                     513i928         1,067,885          693,647          792,116          774,385
417-000,     Ncn Ordinary Revenue                        2,040,873           144,015             -              45,814            68,0J0
Traiisfor from privious year                                      -           2,000,000        4,000,000         5t500,000
Capital Revenue                                4,571            44,490        3,937,100        1,278,860        1,378,860
Total          16,613,123        18,288,228      23,254,601        24,026,380       32,133,245
EXPEXDITURE
Code Number         Expenditure Items                     1977_78             1 97879         197 980          1980:81           1981-:2
6i ioOW       Personnel            -                      08,o82960       7 1 96,046        7 g9241,2,00    8 1 23561: U6 w11
612-000      Non Personnel                                 502,801         - 892,523           821,99go        713 ,976        1,083,359
613-000       Properties repairs & Maintenanoe           2,518,531          3,669,220          765,266       1,183,867         1,729,295
614-000       Parchase of vehicles & Ecraipment            860,309            386,820          530,919         580,615         3,895,951
615-000       Purchase expendable goods &
commoditi es                              19949,439         1,113,139         1,486,527       1,644t734         3,01T7,378
616-000       Payable for persons & Organization           200,167           712,478           456,606         325,928           658,599
617-000       Others Expenditure                              _                 _                1,435           42,690           20,000
810-000       Capital Expenditure                        2,488,652          1,078,615        7,902,206       4,724,670        10,167,543
!otal           16,6183909        15,048,841        19,*889,167     17,346,066        32,133t245



- 70 -
Ethiopia                            Figure 10001
First Urban Development Project
PROGRESSIVE DEVELOP='T OF DWELLING
Serviced plot 160 m2
with footpath access
to shared standpipe
(1 per 44 plots)
I.-
Pit latrine
1 room 13.5 m2                     P1.
Total area:  14.5 mn2
Cost (chicka):
pit latrine  B   200
dwelling     B 1,000
Total   B 1,200
(US$600)
Pit latrine plus
2 rooms, one 13.5 m2
the second 9 m2                                          13.5 m2
Total area:  23.5 m2                 LI)
Cost (chicka):
pit latrine  B   200
dwelling     B 1,600
Total   B 1,800                                       9
(US$900)
Pit latrine plus
Separate kitchen of 6.7 m2                               1 672
and 3 rooms, one 13.5 m2              UI.J      l .I5  2 
2 rooms 9 m2
Total area:  39.2 m2                      t
Cost (chicka):                                IfL
pit latrine  B   200                        leMpan   9 m2    9 m2
dwelling     B 2,500                       La
Total   B 2,700
(US$1,350)



- 71 -
Ethiopia                              Figure 10002
First Urban Development Project
COIS"-ITY CENTERS
/,6 
C4.i Se4*   (4812)   CCeVtW  (4m
kV(Wn QvFRPoss WA&4-
-   <   1  6<~~~~~~~V~eoUMO-
K    ~ - - ~              *               Area:  Multipurpose Hall 2 ?0 m
Offices              8Gm2
Meeting Rooms        96m
Hallway              16m2
Sanitaticn            5m2
397m
Modular Structural Units
100 m2  "hall" unit                 48 m2  "meeting room" unit



I



IC'                                          -                                        , -  __IBRD 14006
/ Z   2  2  i   tX                             .                                 ETHIOPIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4                 >    :          t      .           /                                                                     -      MAI\~~~~~~s  1  ROADS MOOR
R  d  ~     ~      -'____OTE  OO
/ S~~~~~~~~ 
S  U D A  N :hudre h nr /Zlso n enkc vst'
/               \                   &   hte0      
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E C    -   "                                          C                                              R.face.......'>4''--/2OUW300
.1                                                                  T f Ad.-   Aamat  _  /   J    02 '>   S  k)totet/r
Ni~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~ ~ ~         ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 -  INTRRO gRO EO;jJNDOEIEEut-    '-
t{/Bie~~~ 'sor ,<t                                                              ' S  ET  <                                           n
.                                                                                                                           Q,A-  ' '        :-
S U r A SJ > 0 SJ >- \4<. | <S. .;> / ) \, t~~~~~J$QL                                D~                      .0       C                          'u]t-'-' 
,.                                                                                                                                                     fLOS )/'\ .         < \<  f   \0  :O X  L1\    J  :   
< F'  /  IWO   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  (o/~~~~~~~~~~~OS  4(                                                 A           I 
/   w;7         7                                 h {tI    / 
E ~     ~          ~         ~          E R
D A N
UGANDA                                                                                                                                           ' ' KI
\-  t 30St X  r A \9_ 1 <'; &Y ; \ st/; i lol_ei 5i462 \ \ \ n jSv~~~~F                                                       SM






ETHIOPIA
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                           =E.'r I
ADDIS ABABA                                                                     T DAN
Project Sites
,..........              ...  .   .                             .              S T-
l\,,\ , /C--                                                              "       '                      ' 
'2,\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S f/  I    It ,             A
u,-, Es stmg,,                  
e,p-2dS AA, R.d
C1, B-ER                                .,,,,.                                             
... b.f S, /q75U-.%  /.......      n..  
./.,E&1rNB s I






ETHIOPIA
NEFAS SILK-NORMAL SITE LAYOUT
(PRELIMINARY)
L      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ht-0 -
:   V       <       ''   0'S-..'''0<~~~~~~~ P'''s'..y'''
Mc     D1cdV
X                                     S.Ies Rcsaood
I2  -  _                  I   I
y :<S rv2 kV ~Ff. az2.-   re.2. ;>.w>>sX8  - ,  ,N          . ;, Mu K Z _ ;






ETHIOPIA
TEKLE HAIMANOT-UPGRADING LAYOUT                                                                                                  V /.
(PRELIMINARY)
*\0 , 0 1/ . - --7;  ,,                                                  EXISTING
- -.4,;  .00.W 5. _                                               dpyp.
r  o e   . -.SJMLA                                                                                                   Rfs C-olei-o t b.nSt-ps
_7                                                                                                / 7   t ru 1> - _ _   ;   \  e ovw   S @ ; ;m y _ S { t > t N >=nr c ffi  _ w



