Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5727 
Operation Name 
Bhutan Development Policy Credit 1 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (45%);Roads and highways 
(25%);General industry and trade sector (20%);Vocational training 
(10%) 
Project ID 
P113069 
Borrower(s) 
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
May 6, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 4, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
September 28, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGoB) has made significant progress in implementing its medium-
term program of institutional and policy reforms.  The World Bank has supported the RGoB’s 
development efforts through three budgetary operations in recent years.  The First and Second 
Development Policy Grants (DPGs) were designed as a programmatic series in support of RGoB’s 
medium term reforms.  They provided US$15 million in FY06 and US$12 million in FY07 respectively, 
to help the RGoB meet selected development goals, and contributed to deepening the policy dialogue.  
Following the Kingdom’s transition to democracy in 2008, and based on progress on the medium-term 
reform program, a Development Policy Financing for Institutional Strengthening (DPFIS) for US$20.22 
million was approved under the FY06-09 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bhutan.  Although it 
was designed as a stand alone operation, the DPFIS was anchored in a medium term programmatic 
framework to support the attainment of Tenth Five-Year Plan (10FYP) (2008/09–2012/13) development 
goals, as requested by the RGoB. 
 
The RGoB has requested further budget support to help meet its development agenda.  The Bank 
proposes policy-based budget support to the RGoB in the form of a programmatic series of two single-
tranche Development Policy Credit operations over the next 2-3 years.  The operations would support the 
RGoB’s medium term reform program as anchored in the 10FYP.  The First Development Policy Credit 
(DPC1) is expected to be presented to the Board in early FY11.  This could be followed by a Second 
Development Policy Credit (DPC2), subject to adequate reform progress.  
 
Overall, the RGoB’s macroeconomic outlook remains favorable.  The RGoB seeks to maintain sound 
macroeconomic performance over the medium term, and targets limiting of the 
overall deficit
 (including 
grants) to less than five percent of GDP.  This has been achieved for the last four years.  The 
debt burden
,
which is about 55 percent of GDP, is likely to rise over the next few years, as hydropower projects are 
launched to meet the ambitious goals of the 10FYP.  However, even though Bhutan’s debt indicators 
superficially appear to be high, this is less of a problem than the numbers may suggest.  Although debt 
servicing will rise, the resources needed to service debt will be generated directly by assets created 
through borrowing.   Much of the projected increase in government debt in the medium term is driven by 
hydropower debt, and non-hydropower debt is expected to decline. The overall 
external balance
 will 
continue to show a surplus during the 10FYP period due to robust capital inflows, even as the current 
account deficit is projected to average almost 13 percent over the period.  The current account deficit will 
Page  2
widen due to a deteriorating trade balance and increased interest payments.  Inflows on the capital 
account, in the form of foreign direct investment, grants from India, and foreign aid from development 
partners will help Bhutan maintain a positive balance of payments, and contribute to a modest increase in 
total reserves.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The overarching objective of the proposed DPC series of operations is to strengthen institutions to: (a) 
promote government efficiency and effectiveness through sound fiscal and public financial management 
and procurement, and strong public administration; (b) foster private sector development by improving 
the policy environment and facilitating productive employment opportunities; and (c) expand access to 
infrastructure (roads, urban, ICT) in an environmentally sustainable manner.  These are viewed by the 
RGoB as critical to sustain robust development performance over the medium term.  These development 
objectives are closely aligned with the strategic priorities of the 10FYP. The operations will seek to 
consolidate the reforms supported under the earlier Development Policy Operations (DPOs).   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The RGoB has requested further budget support from the Bank to: (i) strengthen its ongoing program of 
institutional reforms; and (ii) provide resources for its development agenda.  
First
,
as the one-year old 
democratically elected government deepens its reform program, Bank assistance will help highlight key 
development priorities to meet the challenges.  Bank support through budgetary operations has achieved 
significant success in recent years, and the RGoB would like build on this momentum.  
Second
,
the 
projected resource gap in financing the 10FYP agenda will be more than US$150 million, including 
reconstruction and rehabilitation costs from a major earthquake that struck eastern Bhutan in September 
2009.  Further budget support from the Bank will help address this gap.  Although Bhutan receives 
significant external assistance, more than 80 percent of this is project-tied 
—
making programmatic 
budget support valuable for its quick disbursement and the flexibility with which it can be deployed.  
Support from the World Bank is also valued by the RGoB for its signaling effect.   
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: (US$m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
 
IDA Credit 
20 million 
 Total 
20 
million 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Department of Public Accounts (DPA), Ministry of Finance, will be responsible for overall 
implementation and monitoring of DPC1  The RGoB has already established an inter-ministerial group of 
officials, headed by the Secretary, Ministry of Finance, to provide overall coordination for the DPC 
process.  This group has been working with the Bank team since the inception of the DPOs, and is 
familiar with Bank procedures.  
 
The Bank team will supervise the project by monitoring actions and reviewing implementation progress 
of the proposed operation.  The Policy Program Matrix of the proposed operation will provide a results 
framework that describes expected outputs / outcomes, as well as indicators to gauge progress and 
Page  3
monitor interim steps.  Implementation support missions will be undertaken at regular intervals, in 
consultation with the RGoB. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits relate closely to the DPC objectives and to the Tenth Five-Year Plan.  In a generally well-
managed country like Bhutan, which is already making good progress in development and reforms, and 
which is on-track for achieving most of the MDGs, the expected benefits of DPC1 in supporting the 
gove
rnment’s program are substantial.  In the medium term, the program is expected to contribute to 
improved use of public resources, decreased unemployment, economic diversification, and better access 
to infrastructure.  The funds provided to the RGoB through the proposed operation can finance more than 
50 percent of the projected net resource gap in 2010/11.  This will help to maintain the RGoB’s 
macroeconomic framework, and increase availability of resources for development priorities.
 
The main risks that need to be managed relate to: (a) political uncertainty stemming from the transition to 
democracy—mitigated by the government’s careful preparation and consultation on the new governance 
arrangements, and commitment to sustaining reforms; (b) external shocks resulting from the lack of 
economic diversification and the impacts of external shocks and natural disasters — mitigated by 
strengthening public expenditure management, and efforts to foster private sector development; (c) 
capacity constraints due to the small scale of government—mitigated by the government’s ongoing 
capacity building efforts (in many areas supported by development partners); and (d) environmental risks 
from infrastructure expansion — mitigated by sound environmental policies and requirements, and efforts 
to mainstream environmental issues at sectoral levels.
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed operation is expected to yield several positive social impacts.  Supportive government 
policies have ensured that Bhutan is on track to achieve or has achieved most of its Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) for which data are available.  The RGoB is committed to improving the 
living standards of the population as demonstrated by heavy public spending on the provision of social 
services, especially in remote areas.  The 10FYP’s overarching objective is the reduction in poverty, and, 
by supporting 10FYP goals, the operation will contribute to favorable social and poverty impacts. 
 
No major environmental concerns are noted for the first two themes supported under DPC1.  The 
potential environmental concerns related to the third theme of improving access to infrastructure are more 
significant in Bhutan’s environmentally sensitive and fragile mountainous terrain.  Bhutan has a 
reasonably sound environmental policy and legislative framework for environmental safeguard, 
mitigation, and management. Projects or development activities are not permitted in the core zone of 
protected areas.  All development proposals are subject to environmental screening and assessment 
processes, and procedures which result in the establishment of environmental management plans that 
incorporate specific recommendations for mitigating negative environmental impacts.  Adverse 
environmental impacts of DPC1 are expected to be minimal, provided Bhutan’s environmental policies 
and management systems are effectively applied.  
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Ananya Basu 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 91-11-41479138 
Fax: 91-11-24619393 
Page  4
Email: Abasu@worldbank.org 
Location: New Delhi, India (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
