                                           CONFORMED COPY



                                   CREDIT NUMBER 4835 -BT




Financing Agreement
       (First Development Policy Credit)



                   between



          KINGDOM OF BHUTAN



                     and



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




            Dated March 21, 2011
                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated March 21, 2011, entered into between KINGDOM OF
BHUTAN (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I.A. of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        sixteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
        (SDR 16,500,000) (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                           -2-


2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.

                             ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
                action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension is that a situation has arisen which shall
        make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried
        out.

4.02.   The Additional Event of Acceleration is that event specified in Section 4.01 of
        this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after
        notice of the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness is that the Association is satisfied with
        the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program and with the
        adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance.
                                         -3-


6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

               Ministry of Finance
               Tashichhodzong
               Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan

               Facsimile:

               00975-2-323154


6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable address:           Telex:                  Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)             1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.


AGREED at Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan, as of the day and year first above written.


                                KINGDOM OF BHUTAN

                                By /s/ Lyonpo Wangdi Norbu

                                                              Authorized Representative



                                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                By /s/ Isabelle M. Guerrero

                                                              Authorized Representative
                                         -4-


                                   SCHEDULE 1

               Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.     Actions under the Program

A.      Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Recipient under
        the Program include the following:

        1.     As part of the Integrated Public Service Delivery System initiative, the
               draft of the delivery standards have been prepared and forwarded to the
               Cabinet Secretariat in 2010 by ten (10) ministries of the Recipient,
               twelve (12) autonomous agencies and twenty (20) Dzongkhags.

        2.     The Cabinet has approved a National Anti-Corruption Strategic
               Framework on July 14, 2009, has distributed said framework to all public
               and private stakeholders within the territory of the Recipient and posted
               said framework on the Anti-Corruption Commission website of the
               Recipient.

        3.     The Cabinet has approved an Economic Development Policy on
               November 10, 2009, and has formally released said Policy to the public
               on April 2, 2010.

        4.     The Recipient has established the Credit Information Bureau in
               November 2009, which is operational and has commenced offering
               products including Consumer Credit Information Reports and Self
               Inquiry Reports.

        5.     The Cabinet has approved a National Human Resource Development
               Policy on March 5, 2010.

        6.     The Ministry of Works and Human Settlements has adopted the Thromde
               Rules on June 30, 2010, and said Rules have come into force on July 1,
               2010.

        7.     The National Environment Commission has approved the National
               Standards for Ambient Air Quality, Industrial Emission, Workplace
               Emissions, and Noise Levels in February 12, 2010, commenced the
               implementation of said Standards and has made them available to general
               public through the National Environment Commission website.
                                          -5-


Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a Single
        Withdrawal Tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
        Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
        in the table below:

                  Allocations                   Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                      (expressed in SDR)
         (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                     16,500,000
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                      16,500,000

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
        Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is satisfied (a) with the
        Program being carried out by the Recipient, and (b) with the appropriateness of
        the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.      Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
        agree:

        (a)     all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
                Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
                to the Association; and

        (b)     the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
                Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
                Association.

E.      Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
        Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
        determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
        payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
        from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
        the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
        cancelled.

F.      Closing Date. The Closing Date is November 30, 2011.
                                        -6-


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule

                  Date Payment Due                         Principal Amount of the
                                                              Credit repayable
                                                               (expressed as a
                                                                percentage)*

On each February 15 and August 15 commencing                          5%
February 15, 2021 to and including August 15, 2030:

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid.
                                          -7-


                                       APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Commission? means the Recipient’s Anti-Corruption
        Commission established pursuant to Article 27 of the Constitution of the
        Kingdom of Bhutan, or any successor thereto.

2.      “Cabinet? means the Recipient’s Cabinet of Ministers.

3.      “Cabinet Secretariat? means the secretariat of Cabinet which supports the
        executive of the Royal Government of Bhutan.

4.      “Consumer Credit Information Report? means a comprehensive credit report
        which provides the credit history of a consumer and the level of its indebtedness
        which is provided by the Credit Information Bureau to financial institutions and
        “Consumer Credit Information Reports? means, collectively, more than one
        Consumer Credit Information Report.

5.      “Credit Information Bureau? means a unit within the Royal Monetary Authority
        of Bhutan that maintains an electronic database containing identifying
        information, data and credit records of borrowers, or any successor thereto.

6.      “Dzongkhags? mean districts.

7.      “Economic Development Policy? means the Recipient’s policy approved by the
        Cabinet which sets the agenda and the general direction for the economic
        development of sectors that have the highest potential.

8.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
                loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
                by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
                (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
                revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
                Recipient:
                               -8-


               Group           Sub-group            Description of Item
               112                                  Alcoholic beverages
               121                                  Tobacco, un-
                                                    manufactured, tobacco
                                                    refuse
               122                                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                                    (whether or not containing
                                                    tobacco substitutes)
               525                                  Radioactive and associated
                                                    materials
               667                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                    semiprecious stones,
                                                    unworked or worked
               718             718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                    thereof; fuel elements
                                                    (cartridges), non-
                                                    irradiated, for nuclear
                                                    reactors
               728             728.43               Tobacco processing
                                                    machinery
               897             897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                    platinum group metals
                                                    (except watches and watch
                                                    cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                    silversmiths’ wares
                                                    (including set gems)
               971                                  Gold, non-monetary
                                                    (excluding gold ores and
                                                    concentrates)

(c)   for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
      consumption;

(d)   for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
      which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
      agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

(e)   on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
      Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
      United Nations; and
                                       -9-


      (f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
             Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
             action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
             occur.

9.    “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
      General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the
      modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

10.   “Integrated Public Service Delivery System? means an initiative of the Recipient
      for improving public service, and regulatory and organizational reforms.

11.   “Ministry of Works and Human Settlements? means the Recipient’s Ministry of
      Works and Human Settlements, or any successor thereto

12.   “National Anti-Corruption Strategic Framework? means the Recipient’s strategy
      for taking anti-corruption measures in public and private organizations.

13.   “National Environment Commission? means the National Environment
      Commission, an independent agency created under the Recipient’s National
      Environment Protection Act, 2007, or any successor thereto.

14.   “National Human Resource Development Policy? means the Recipient’s policy
      formulating the overall human resource development including, inter alia,
      strategies for long term learning opportunities to enhance and promote
      continuous education at all levels by providing guidance to human resource
      development policies and plans in selected sectors of the economy.

15.   “National Standards for Ambient Air Quality, Industrial Emission, Workplace
      Emissions, and Noise Levels? means the Recipient’s environmental standards for
      ambient air, the maximum limits for pollutants, the acceptable work place
      emissions and the noise level limits within the Recipient’s territory developed
      pursuant to the Recipient’s Environmental Assessment Act, 2000.

16.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
      promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
      referred to in the letter dated September 8, 2010 from the Recipient to the
      Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the
      Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the
      Program during its execution.
                                         - 10 -


17.    “Royal Monetary Authority of Bhutan? means the Royal Monetary Authority of
       Bhutan established by the Recipient under The Royal Monetary Authority Act,
       1982, or any successor thereto.

18.    “Self Inquiry Report? means a comprehensive credit report, displaying the details
       of each credit facility availed by the consumer or commercial entity and its
       related parties, with the name of the institutions which is provided by the credit
       information Bureau when requested by a consumer or a commercial entity and
       “Self Inquiry Reports? means, collectively, more than one Self Inquiry Report.

19.    “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
       category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
       Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

20.    “Thromde? means a municipality.

21.    “Thromde Rules? means the rules for the implementation of the Local
       Governments’ Act of Bhutan, 2007, enacted on July 7, 2007, specifying
       responsibilities, procedures, functions, and revenue sources of the Thromde.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for
Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as set
forth below. In all other respects, the General Conditions remain unchanged.

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
       in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
       accordingly.

3.     Section 3.03 (b) (Accelerated Repayment) is deleted in its entirety.

4.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
       Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
       Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
       and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
       above) is modified to read as follows:
                                      - 11 -


            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
            shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.?

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.
