                Document of
             The World Bank


                                           Report No:
                                                        66169 v1


          RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                  ON A

     PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                 OF THE

NATURAL DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT PROJECT

            SEPTEMBER 15, 2005


                 TO THE

      SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM


             December 27, 2011
                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



APL     Adaptable Program Lending
ICB     International Competitive Bidding


MARD    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MONRE   Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment




         Regional Vice President:        James W. Adams
                Country Director:        Victoria Kwakwa
        Sector Manager / Director:       Jennifer J. Sara/ John Roome
              Task Team Leaders:         Toru Konishi, Cuong Hung Pham
                                     2
                                 VIET NAM
                 NATURAL DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                   P085080
                                 CONTENTS

                                                                                                                 Page
EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE.............................................................................................4




                                                          3
 VIET NAM- NATURAL DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT PROJECT (P0733610)
                       CREDIT NO. 4114-VN


                        Extension of Closing Date


1.    The closing date for Credit No.4114-VN under the Natural Disaster Risk
Management Project will be extended 5 months from December 31, 2011 to May 31,
2012.

2.      The project was originally designed as an APL program with 2 phases and it
comprises four (4) components. The project has been jointly executed by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) which is in charge of implementing three
(3) components and by the Ministry of Finance in charge of one component e.g. post-
disaster reconstruction support component. The project was approved in September
2005, and became effective on May 29, 2006. The original closing date was June 30,
2010. The first 12 months extension of the closing date was approved in June 2010 in
order to provide more time for overall project implementation and allow the Government
to process the additional financing for the post-disaster reconstruction support component
following the destruction caused by Typhoon Ketsana in 2009. In September 2010, the
additional financing of US$75 million was approved and become effective in November
2010.

3.       There has been good progress in implementation during the last 18 months since
July 2010, including: (a) good implementation of the post disaster reconstruction
activities under the additional financing (AF), and (b) completion of all three major
pending infrastructure subprojects under Component 1. As of December 15, 2011, the
total disbursement of the original IDA allocation (US$93 million) reached about US$84
million (or more than 90 percent of the total original IDA allocation). However there is
still a significant investments pending under Component 1: improvement of the hydro
metrological data collection network for the Southern Hydromet Institute to enable the
country to carry out effective flood and typhoon warning.

4.      The proposed 5 months extension of the closing date would allow the Borrower to
complete the above-mentioned investment. As of December 26, 2011, the borrower has
satisfactorily completed the bid evaluation for the procurement of the hydromet
equipment carried out under the International Competitive Bidding procedures and about
to award a contract. In June 2011, the Borrower had requested a 12 month extension to
enable completion of the investments; however, at that time, only six months extension
had been granted, and the Borrower was informed that further extension would be
granted provided that the procurement process is completed in a satisfactory manner by
December 31, 2011.

5.     At present, the Bank is formulating a follow up disaster management project for
FY12 delivery in which there will be a component of a significant size to scale up the
                                            4
improvement of hydromet data collection and analysis. The proposed extension of the
ongoing project would also lay a critical basis for implementing the hydromet component
under the new project.

6.     The implementation of the project has been moderately satisfactory and there are
no significant issues related to either fiduciary or safeguards policies. Completing the
procurement of hydro-metrological equipment has required more time than usual because
of the complex technical nature. There is no overdue audit report and financial
management has been rated marginally satisfactory.

7.     The executing agency, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(MARD) in close collaboration with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
(MONRE), has prepared a detailed implementation plan for the remaining activities
towards project completion.

8.     This will be the third extension of the project. As a result, a total extension period
of 23 months would be made from the original closing date.




                                             5
