Document of
The World Bank



                                                      Report No: ICR3183



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-4114; IDA-4770)



                                         ON

                                       CREDITS

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF

                               SDR59 MILLION
                        (US$86 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND

                               SDR49 MILLION
                        (US$75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                      SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                   FOR THE

                NATURAL DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                  June 2nd, 2014



Vietnam Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective: September 1, 2013)

                   Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                          VND 1 million = US$47.4
                           US$1.00 = 21,085 VND


                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing
AusAid   Australian Agency for International Development
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBDRM    Community-based Disaster Risk Management
CCCC     Commune CBDRM Coordination Committee
CCFSC    Central Committee for Flood and Storm Control
CEMMA    Committee for Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Areas
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFs      Commune Facilitators
CG       Consultative Group
CPCO     Central Project Coordination Office
CPMO     Central Project Management Office
CPMU     Central Project Management Unit
CPO      Central Project Office
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
CPRGS    Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
DARD     Provincial Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (of MARD)
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DDO      Deferred Drawdown Option
DEM      Digital Elevation Model
DDMFC
DDMFSC
DMC      Disaster Management Center
DMSFCD   Dyke Management and Storm and Flood Control Department
DMU      Disaster Management Unit
DONRE    Department of Natural Resources and Environment
DPI      Department of Planning and Investment
DPL      Development Policy Loan
DRM      Disaster Risk Management
DSU      Dam Safety Unit
EA       Environmental Assessment
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EMDF     Ethnic Minority Development Framework
EMC       Emergency Management Center
ERL       Emergency Recovery Loan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FM        Financial Management
GDHMS     General Department of Hydro-Meteorological Services
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GIS       Geographic Information System
GOV       Government of Vietnam
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
JSDF      Japan Social Development Fund
LIDAR     Light Detection And Ranging
MARD      Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MOC       Ministry of Construction
MOCI      Ministry of Culture & Information
MOD       Ministry of Defense
MOET      Ministry of Education and Training
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOFA      Ministry of Foreign Affairs
MOFI      Ministry of Fisheries
MOH       Ministry of Health
MOI       Ministry of Industry
MOLISA    Ministry of Labor, the Invalids and Social Affairs
MONRE     Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
MOT       Ministry of Transportation
MPI       Ministry of Planning and Investment
MPT       Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
MTR       Mid-term Review
NCWMF     National Center of Weather and Meteorological Forecast
NCSR      National Committee for Search and Rescue
NDMIP     National Disaster Mitigation Investment Plans
NDMP      Natural Disaster Mitigation Partnership
NDRMP     Natural Disaster Risk Management Project
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NS        National Strategy for Disaster Prevention, Response and Mitigation to 2020
NTF       Netherlands Trust Fund
OOG       Office of Government
PCU       Project Coordination Unit (Southern Regional Hydromet Center)
PER-IFA   Public Expenditure Review and Integrated Fiduciary Assessment
PHRD      Policy Human Resource Development
PIM       Project Implementation Manual
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PPC       Provincial People’s Committee
PPMU      Provincial Project Management Unit
PPR       Project Preparation Report
PPSC      Provincial Project Steering Committee
PSC       Project Steering Committee
OM        Operational Manual
OOG       Office of Government
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
RNE      Royal Netherlands Embassy
SA       Special Account
SCP      Safer Commune Plan
SEDP     Socio-Economic Development Plan
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SIDA     Swedish International Development Agency
SIO      Sub-project Implementation Office
SNSDMV   Second National Strategy for Disaster Management in Vietnam
SRHMC    Southern Regional Hydro-Meteorological Center
SBD      State Budget Department
STD      State Treasury Department
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
VN-Haz   Vietnam Managing Natural Hazards Project
VWRAP    Vietnam Water Resources Assistance Project




                        Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg, EAP
                      Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa, EACVF
                       Sector Director: John Roome, EASSD
                       Sector Manager: Jennifer J. Sara, EASVS
                  Project Team Leader: Toru Konishi, EASVS
                     ICR Team Leader: Dzung Huy Nguyen, EASVS
                        SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
                  NATURAL DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                                      CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1.    Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 5
3.    Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 14
4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 20
5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 21
6.    Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 23
7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 33
Annex 3. Economic Analysis ............................................................................................ 33
Annex 4. Resettlement Impacts ........................................................................................ 49
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 50
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 52
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 53
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 54
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 65
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 66
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Natural Disaster Risk
Country:                Vietnam                   Project Name:
                                                                           Management Project
                                                                           IDA-41140,IDA-47700,TF-
Project ID:             P073361, P119684          L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           54753,TF-55176,TF-57258
ICR Date:               06/30/2014                ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                           SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                           OF VIETNAM
Original Total
                        SDR59M                    Disbursed Amount:        SDR104.54M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         SDR108M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF), Policy Human
Resource Development (PHRD) and Netherlands Trust Fund (NTF).

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/12/2002       Effectiveness:             05/30/2006          05/30/2006
                                                                                      05/24/2010
                                                                                      06/17/2010
Appraisal:            05/23/2005       Restructuring(s):                              06/30/2011
                                                                                      12/28/2011
                                                                                      05/31/2012
Approval:             09/15/2005       Mid-term Review:           06/11/2007          06/11/2007
                                       Closing:                   06/30/2010          12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Moderate
Bank Performance:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
       Bank                   Ratings            Borrower                             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory                  Government:          Moderately Satisfactory


                                                  i
                                                      Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
                                                      Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                          Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                          Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation
                              Indicators        QAG Assessments (if any)                     Rating
     Performance
Potential Problem Project
                          No                           Quality at Entry (QEA):         None
at any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any
                             Yes                       Quality of Supervision (QSA): None
time (Yes/No):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Flood protection                                                      70                     67
General public administration sector                                     9                    9
General education sector                                                 7                    9
Health                                                                   7                    5
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                 7                   10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           40                      50
Administrative and civil service reform                               20                      15
Participation and civic engagement                                    20                      15
Water resource management                                             20                      20

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:             Axel van Trotsenburg                Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:           Victoria Kwakwa                     Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:             Jennifer J. Sara                    Mark D. Wilson
Project Team Leader:        Toru Konishi                        Laurent Msellati
ICR Team Leader:            Dzung Huy Nguyen

ICR Primary Authors:        Dzung Huy Nguyen



                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives were to assist the recipient to establish and implement a
comprehensive risk management framework for natural disaster prevention, preparedness and
mitigation and recovery to enable it to: (i) reduce the vulnerability to flood and storm hazards
in the project areas; (ii) increase the efficiency of post-disaster recovery and reconstruction
efforts; and (iii) strengthen the capacity of national and local disaster risk management
institutions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There was a minor revision of the project development objective during the processing of
Additional Financing (AF) of US$75 million in 2010 expanding the scope of Component 3 –
Post-Disaster Reconstruction Support - to include “other natural hazards”. Therefore, the
revised objective of the project was to assist the recipient to establish a comprehensive natural
disaster risk management framework to enable it to: (i) reduce the vulnerability to flood,
storm and other natural hazards in the project provinces; (ii) increase the efficiency of post-
disaster recovery and reconstruction efforts; and (iii) strengthen the capacity of national and
local disaster risk management institutions.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target     Formally
                                                                         Actual Value Achieved
                                           Values (from       Revised
   Indicator        Baseline Value                                          at Completion or
                                             approval         Target
                                                                              Target Years
                                            documents)        Values
                Approval by the Government of the Second National Strategy and Action Plan (2001-
Indicator 1 :
                2010)
Value
(quantitative or n/a                        Yes                   n/a        Yes
qualitative)
Date achieved                               05/30/2009            n/a        11/16/2007
                 The Vietnamese Prime Minister approved the National Strategy for Disaster
Comments
                 Prevention, Response and Mitigation to 2020 (NS) on November 16, 2007 and the
(incl. %
                 subsequent national action plans for implementation of the Strategy on September 29,
achievement)
                 2009. Target fully achieved.
Indicator 2 : Central Committee for Flood and Storm Control (CCFSC) has been strengthened
Value
(quantitative or n/a                         Yes                  n/a        Yes
qualitative)
Date achieved                               06/30/2010.           n/a        02/27/2010
                 Institutional arrangements and responsibilities of CCFSC and its subordinate branches
                 in line ministries and provinces have been rearranged and strengthened by the
Comments         Vietnamese Prime Minister’s Decree No. 14/2010/NĐ-CP dated February 27, 2010.
(incl. %         CCFSC has been effective in coordinating the implementation of the National
achievement) Strategy, and responding to main flood and storm events, including Typhoon Ketsana
                 in 2009, floods in 2009 and 2010 and Wutip, Nari and Haiyan in 2013. Target fully
                 achieved.

                                               iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally
                                                                             Actual Value Achieved
                                               Values (from       Revised
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                             at Completion or
                                                 approval         Target
                                                                                   Target Years
                                               documents)         Values
Indicator 1 :      Number of provinces with completed Natural Disaster Mitigation Investment Plans
Value
(quantitative or   0                         10                   n/a          12
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/15/2005                06/30/2010           n/a          06/29/2012
Comments
                   12 provinces in the Central Region and Mekong Delta developed Natural Disaster
(incl. %
                   Mitigation Investment Plans (NDMIPs). Target fully achieved.
achievement)
                   Percentage of people in targeted communities (e.g., Mekong Delta) reporting
Indicator 2 :
                   improved early warning of floods and storms
Value
(quantitative or   0                         10                    30           90
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/15/2005                06/30/2010           12/31/2013 06/29/2012
Comments
                   90% of project communes have access to early warnings on floods and storms. Target
(incl. %
                   fully achieved (300%)
achievement)
                   Number of feasibility studies completed for sub-projects to be funded under the
Indicator 3 :
                   program
Value
(quantitative or   0                         15                   n/a           17
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/15/2005                06/30/2010           n/a          06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %           17 feasibilities studies were completed. Target fully achieved (113%).
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Number of sub-projects completed
Value
(quantitative or   0                         8                    n/a           12
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/15/2005               06/30/2010          n/a          06/29/2012
Comments           Among 12 sub-projects funded by the project, 11 sub-projects were completed and 1
(incl. %           sub-project focusing on Hydromet services for Mekong Delta was partly completed.
achievement)       Target fully achieved (150%).
Indicator 5 :      Number of Safer Commune Plans prepared
Value
(quantitative or   0                         40                   n/a          30
qualitative)
Date achieved      09/15/2005                 05/30/2009           n/a         06/29/2012
Comments           Lessons learnt from the initial pilot implemented in 10 communes in three provinces
(incl. %           revealed that Community-based Disaster Risk Management (CBDRM) plans needed

                                                  iv
achievement)    to be accompanied by actual investments. Additional grant funds were secured but
                were insufficient to meet the hard and soft investments of all 40 communes,
                particularly given the cancellation of US$2 million out of US$8.5 million Netherlands
                Trust Fund (NTF). Target partially achieved (75%).
Indicator 6 :   Procedures for Damage Assessment are revised
Value
(quantitative or n/a                       Yes                    n/a          Yes
qualitative)
Date achieved 09/15/2005                   06/30/2007             N/A          09/30/2012
                 The existing Damage Assessment Guidelines were revised and updated. However, the
Comments
                 revised procedures have not been effectively used for post-disaster damage
(incl. %
                 assessments due to the complexity of the methodology and the limited capacity of the
achievement)
                 Government at the national and subnational levels. Target partially achieved.
Indicator 7 : Acceptable criteria approved for prioritizing allocation of post – disaster assistance
Value
(quantitative or n/a                       Yes                    n/a          Yes
qualitative)
Date achieved 09/15/2005                   06/30/2008             n/a          09/30/2012
Comments         A set of eligible, measurable and transparent criteria for determining post-disaster
(incl. %         allocations was approved by MARD and MOF, and applied for post-disaster support.
achievement) Target fully achieved.
                 Percentage of completed sub-projects withstanding subsequent disaster events of the
Indicator 8 :
                 same type of hazard up to the intensity of a 1-in-30 year event
Value
(quantitative or n/a                       n/a                    95           100
qualitative)
Date achieved 07/17/2010                                          12/31/2013 12/31/2013
                 This indicator was added during the period of the AF in order to promote and measure
Comments
                 the “Build-Back-Better” approach. All reconstructed public infrastructure withstood
(incl. %
                 subsequent disaster events, including Typhoon Ketsana in 2009, floods in 2009 and
achievement)
                 2010 and Wutip, Nari and Haiyan in 2013. Target fully achieved (105%).
                 Length of time from the date of release of funds to the relevant provinces to
Indicator 9 :
                 completion of sub-projects
Value
(quantitative or n/a                       n/a                    12 months 8-14 months
qualitative)
Date achieved 07/17/2010                                          12/31/2013 12/31/2013
                 This is a new indicator, which was added during the period of the AF to strengthen
                 measuring the achievement of the second development objective. Post-disaster
                 reconstruction went through five planning cycles of post-disaster reconstruction
Comments         (2008–2012). On average, it took about 8 to 14 months to complete damages
(incl. %         assessment and budget mobilization in each cycle before reconstruction work would
achievement) start. Consequently, the strengthening of government speed in the allocation and
                 disbursement of post-disaster resources was not fully met. Nevertheless, new budget
                 procedures have been prepared to expedite reconstruction and are pending approval.
                 Target partially achieved.
                 Detailed needs assessment for the establishment of an Emergency Management Center
Indicator 10 :
                 completed


                                               v
Value
(quantitative or n/a                        Yes                n/a         Yes
qualitative)
Date achieved 09/15/2005                    05/30/2009         n/a         12/31/2013
                 A detailed needs assessment for the establishment of an EMC was fully completed.
Comments         Instead of establishing the EMC, the Government established a sustained department
(incl. %         level Disaster Management Centre (DMC) in early 2010, which is part of the
achievement) CCFSC’s Standing Office responsible for emergency response and relief. Target fully
                 achieved.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
         Date ISR                                                          Actual Disbursements
No.                             DO                         IP
         Archived                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/29/2005        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     08/24/2006        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       5.00
                           Moderately
  3     09/29/2007                            Moderately Unsatisfactory                 9.03
                         Unsatisfactory
  4     06/23/2008       Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory                      15.55
                           Moderately
  5     10/21/2008                                Unsatisfactory                      17.67
                         Unsatisfactory
  6     06/16/2009    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 40.98
  7     06/25/2010        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      71.82
  8     06/29/2011        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                98.54
  9     03/31/2012        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               116.52
 10     12/22/2012        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               135.54
 11     07/29/2013        Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory               152.54
 12     12/31/2013    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                162.54

H. Restructuring (if any)
                  Board   ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed
Restructuring                                                 Reason for Restructuring &
                 Approved Restructuring at Restructuring in
   Date(s)                                                         Key Changes Made
                PDO Change DO      IP      USD millions
                                                            Reallocation of Credit Proceeds
                                                            and Extension of the Closing
                                                            Date. The Development Credit
                                                            Agreement was amended twice,
                                                            on March 5, 2010 and May 24,
                                                            2010. An Extension was made
                                                            for 12 months (June 30, 2010 -
  05/24/2010        N       MS     MS         69.96         June 30, 2011) to support the
                                                            completion        of      ongoing
                                                            infrastructure works, which had
                                                            been     suspended       due   to
                                                            unpredictable storms and bad
                                                            weather        affecting      the
                                                            construction progress, and the
                                                            processing of the procurement of

                                              vi
                  Board   ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed
Restructuring                                                 Reason for Restructuring &
                 Approved Restructuring at Restructuring in
   Date(s)                                                         Key Changes Made
                PDO Change DO      IP      USD millions
                                                            hydromet equipment through the
                                                            ICB process.
                                                            Additional     Financing.     The
                                                            amount of SDR49.4 million
                                                            (US$75 million equivalent) was
  06/17/2010        Y       MS     MS         71.82
                                                            approved by the Board to scale
                                                            up Component 3 – Post-Disaster
                                                            Reconstruction Support.
                                                            Closing Date was extended for 6
                                                            months (June 30 - December 31,
                                                            2011) to complete ongoing
  06/30/2011        N       S      MS         98.59
                                                            infrastructure works and procure
                                                            the      hydromet      equipment
                                                            package.
                                                            Closing Date was extended for 5
                                                            months (December 31, 2011 -
  12/28/2011        N       S      MS        116.35         May 31, 2012) to support the
                                                            procurement of the hydromet
                                                            equipment package.
                                                            Closing Date was extended for
                                                            28 days (May 31 - June 28,
  05/31/2012        N       S      MS        133.47         2012) to allow supplier to deliver
                                                            a major part of the hydromet
                                                            equipment package.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                           vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Country Context. Vietnam is one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world.
Due to its geographic position and topography, the country suffers from multiple natural
hazards including typhoons, tropical storms, floods, drought, seawater intrusion, landslides,
forest fires and occasionally earthquakes. From 1994 to 2004, natural hazards claimed almost
6,000 lives and resulted in direct material losses to the capital stock of over US$2.5 billion -
on average 5 percent of gross annual capital formation - reaching 12 percent of gross annual
capital formation in years with high-impact events, equivalent to 2.5 percent of the gross
domestic product (GDP).

2.     Strengthening disaster risk management (DRM) has been a priority in the country’s
development agenda. In 1990, the Government of Vietnam (GOV) established the Central
Committee for Flood and Storm Control (CCFSC) - a cross-ministerial agency with
subordinate provincial and local committees - for managing disaster mitigation, emergency
response and long-term reconstruction and recovery. At project appraisal stage, CCFSC’s
actions had largely focused on disaster emergency response and relief. Institutional capacity
and resources available for the agency to carry out its mandate were limited. Studies carried
out during project preparation noted annual funding gaps for all natural disaster-related
expenditure requirements ranging between US$46 million to US$130 million for the period
between 2000 and 2003. Project preparation also revealed that the institutional framework for
implementing a comprehensive approach to DRM, covering both disaster risk prevention and
response, needed to be further developed and expanded to fully involve key agencies and
relevant stakeholders.

3.      Bank Strategy and Rationale for Bank involvement. Poverty Reduction was
identified as a key theme of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Vietnam for the years
2003 to 2006. The Vietnam Development Report 2004 and the Joint Staff Assessment of the
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS) 1 for Vietnam highlighted
that many households were vulnerable to falling into poverty if confronted with an adverse
shock, such as weather-related natural hazards. Vietnam’s Development Goal Number 8 of the
Vietnam Development Report 2004 specifically targeted reduction of people falling back into
poverty due to natural hazards.

4.      Over the past two decades, the Bank has accumulated extensive knowledge and
operational experience in disaster risk reduction and post-disaster recovery through
engagements in more than thirty countries. Building on this body of global knowledge on
disaster prevention and vulnerability reduction, the Natural Disaster Risk Management Project
(NDRMP) adopted an innovative approach to mainstreaming DRM by focusing on disaster
risk reduction measures, including at the community level where the disaster vulnerability and
consequently demand for such measures is high, to reduce the impacts of recurring natural
disasters on Vietnam’s development.


1
    Vietnam Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Progress Report and Joint Staff Assessment. Report No. 27672-
    VN, dated January 22, 2004.

                                                    1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
5.       The project's development objective (PDO) 2, as stated in the original Development
Credit Agreement (DCA), was to assist the recipient to establish a comprehensive natural
DRM framework to assist the GOV to: (i) reduce the vulnerability to flood, storm and other
natural hazards; (ii) increase the efficiency of post-disaster recovery and reconstruction
efforts; and (iii) strengthen the capacity of national and local disaster risk management
institutions.

6.        Accordingly, the project’s original key performance indicators were:
          • The number of provinces with completed Natural Disaster Mitigation Investment
             Plans (NDMIPs);
          • The number of feasibility studies completed for sub-projects;
          • The number of sub-projects completed; and
          • The number of Safer Commune Plans (SCPs) completed.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by the original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and Reasons/Justification

7.      Additional Financing (AF) for Component 3 – Post-Disaster Reconstruction Support
was approved by the World Bank Board on June 17, 2010. There were no significant changes
to the objective, project design, implementation approach or institutional arrangements. Only
a minor revision was made to the PDO to include “other natural hazards”. Therefore, the
revised PDO was to assist the recipient to establish a comprehensive DRM framework to
enable the GOV to: (i) reduce the vulnerability to flood, storm and other natural hazards in the
project provinces; (ii) increase the efficiency of post-disaster recovery and reconstruction
efforts, and (iii) strengthen the capacity of national and local DRM institutions. The scope of
the Project was amended under AF to scale up support for post-disaster reconstruction to help
address the existing public financing gaps.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

8.      The project was expected to benefit the population living in 12 hazard-prone provinces
in Vietnam’s Central and Mekong Delta regions by supporting strategic investments in
disaster mitigation, post-disaster reconstruction, training and equipment for emergency
preparedness and response, establishment of early warning system, and development of
knowledge on local risks and Safe Commune Plan (SCP) that would reduce the human
suffering and economic costs caused by natural hazards. NDRMP targeted upland and
lowland coastal communities which primarily derive their livelihood from farming (wetland,
cash crops and subsistence), fishing (shrimp cultivation and off-shore fisheries), and small
business activities (food stalls, basic provisions).

9.     The second group of beneficiaries comprised of DRM institutions and involved
agencies, including CCFSC and its subordinate provincial and local (district and commune)
committees, line ministries including the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development


2
    There was a difference in wording of the PDO between the PAD and the DCA, but no discrepancy in substance.

                                                       2
(MARD), Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (MONRE), Ministry of Finance
(MOF), Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI), Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of
Education (MOE), Ministry of Transport (MOT), etc., and provincial sectoral departments.
These have benefited from technical assistance provided during the development of the
National Strategy for Natural Disasters Prevention, Response and Mitigation to 2020 (NS),
provincial integrated DRM plans, the community-based disaster risk management (CBDRM)
model, risk mapping and modelling, feasibility studies and design of mitigation works, as well
as during the series of trainings on DRM, damage and needs assessments, prioritization and
implementation of post-disaster reconstruction support.

10.    In addition, the project also benefited a group of NGOs and other donors in their
engagement on DRM in Vietnam by improving the coordination and information-sharing
network between the Government and mass organizations, donors and international NGOs
under the operation framework of the Natural Disaster Mitigation Partnership (NDMP).

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.    Component 1: Prevention and Mitigation Investments (estimated cost US$73.7
million, of which IDA Credit US$63.5 million) supported medium-sized priority prevention
and mitigation sub-project investments to reduce disaster risks and strengthen prevention
capabilities in areas most effected by floods and storms.

12.     Component 2: Community-based Disaster Risk Management (estimated cost
US$1 million), entirely funded by grants, was combined with other project components to
strengthen the capacity of the most vulnerable population to carry out risk reduction measures
and reduce vulnerability to disasters. (At appraisal, addition grant funding was expected to
complement the IDA resources for this component – see para. #19)

13.    Component 3: Post-Disaster Reconstruction Support (estimated cost US$20.8
million, of which IDA Credit US$20 million) supported post-disaster reconstruction of
small-size public infrastructure, helping to address a recurrent financing gap for post-disaster
recovery, and – financed under a PHRD co-financing grant – enable fast recovery and reduce
the diversion of public resources from planned investments into reconstruction, as well as
improve the damage assessment process and the efficiency and effectiveness of public
resource utilization post-disasters.

14.     Component 4: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening (estimated
cost US$12 million, of which IDA Credit US2.5 million) supported project management
organization and strengthened Government institutions to ensure better coordination and
integration between agencies and different levels responsible for prevention, response and
post-disaster recovery.

1.6 Revised Components

15.    Additional Financing. AF in the amount of SDR49.4 million (US$75 million
equivalent) was approved by the Board on June 17, 2010 to scale up the on-going Component
3 – Post-Disaster Reconstruction Support. The AF was provided on the premise of achieved
progress of the original loan, specifically the Government’s approval of the National Strategy

                                               3
as one of the two key PDO indicators, and the emerging needs of Government and
communities linked to post-Ketsana and Mirinae typhoons (in 2009) reconstruction. In
addition, the AF further supported the strengthening of institutional capacity and procedures
on post-disaster reconstruction. There was no significant change in the PDO, project design,
implementation approach or the institutional arrangements. At the intermediate outcome level,
there were two new indicators added in order to strengthen monitoring of the second
development objective of the original credit and the overall PDO, and promote a “Build-Back-
Better” approach in post-disaster recovery. Several intermediate outcome indicators were also
revised to better capture the recent implementation progress and measure the results of the
project. The closing date for the AF credit was December 31, 2013.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

16.     Shift of strategic support approach from Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to
Specific Investment Loan (SIL). NDRMP was designed as an APL with two phases.
However, a joint decision was made by the Government and the Bank when the AF
preparation was initiated that further support for DRM will not take APL form. There were
two reasons for this. First, important lessons learned during the implementation of NDRMP
and the rapidly changing country context meant that the APL structure would restrict
necessary revisions to project modalities - a constraint alleviated by a shift to SIL. Second, it
became apparent that the Government was unlikely to meet one of the three required policy
development triggers (i.e. the amendment of Circular from the General Statistics Office on
disaster damage statistics and assessment) which in any case was deemed in the end less
significant for achieving the development objective than originally envisaged. Consequently,
the option to proceed with the second phase APL including the AF was rejected in favor of (i)
additional financing for Component 3 to address a financing gap in post-disaster
reconstruction; and (ii) the preparation of a follow-up operation as a SIL.

17.     Closing Date extensions for the original Credit. Given the decision to diverge from
the APL instrument, the existing operation was extended several times in tandem with the AF.
The original closing date was extended four times for a total of six years: (a) the first
extension was from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011 (12 months); (b) the second extension was
from June 30, 2011 to December 31, 2011 (6 months); (c) the third extension was from
December 31, 2011 to May 31, 2012 (5 months); and the fourth extension was from May 31,
2012 to June 28, 2012 (28 days). The first extension was to support the completion of ongoing
infrastructure works which had been suspended due to unpredictable storms and bad weather
affecting the construction progress, and the processing of the procurement of hydromet
equipment through the ICB procurement process. The extension also allowed the GOV to
process the AF. In September 2010, the AF of US$75 million was approved and became
effective in November 2010. Second and third extensions were granted after satisfactory
completion of the tender documents for the hydromet equipment package and evaluation of
relevant bidding documents. The fourth extension was to allow the delivery of a major part of
the hydromet equipment package, thus enabling partial payment of the contract of about
US$2.72 million from the original IDA Credit per terms stipulated in the contract. These
extensions did not require extra cost for supervision as the Bank supervision missions were
conducted for the implementation of both Original Credit and the AF at the same time by the
same task team.


                                               4
18.     Reallocation of credit proceeds. The DCA was amended twice. The first amendment
was on March 5, 2010 to add Quang Tri Province to the project target area per Government’s
request. The second amendment was on May 24, 2010 - as part of the first restructuring - to
reallocate SDR758,365 from Category (5): Goods and works for eligible post-disaster
reconstruction under Part C.1 of the Project to Category (1): Works under Part A of the
Project. These amendments did not alter the overall allocation of resources to the different
project components.

19.     Grants allocations. In addition to the credit, the project received a grant total of
US$14,460,000 from the Japanese Government (US$1,460,000 from JSDF and US$4,500,000
from PHRD) and the Government of the Netherlands (US$8,500,000 from NTF). The grant
support included piloting and scaling up of the CBDRM model and institutional capacity-
building. By June 29, 2012, a total of unallocated US$2,607,894 was returned to financing
agencies because of slow implementation progress. Of which, US$ 2 million out of US$8.5
million NTF was cancelled by the Government of the Netherlands. AusAid also provided in-
kind technical assistance through a team of three DRM specialists including a long-term Chief
Technical Advisor located at the CPMO to help the Government to manage project
implementation, a DRM Specialist and a Hydrodynamic Modeling Specialist for three years.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

20.      Soundness of background analysis. PHRD provided a grant for the preparation of the
project in 2002. The preparation time spanned over a relatively long timeframe from June
2002 to May 2005 due to the institutional complexity and the novelty of the DRM approaches
being introduced in Vietnam. In addition, during project preparation, a number of alternatives,
including APL, DPL with a DDO for “Contingency Funding Facility”, and immediate relief or
an Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL) were discussed and eventually rejected by both the
Government and the Bank since these instruments were deemed to be ill-suited for the long-
term goal of designing and implementing a comprehensive DRM strategy. The preparation
phase allowed for sound background analysis, and strong GOV and community ownership in
the project design which was particularly important given the complexity of the Government’s
institutional arrangements and the need to implement an integrated approach to DRM. During
project preparation, new knowledge and lessons learned on DRM within and outside the Bank
were considered and adopted 3. The design of the AF incorporated information and studies
generated earlier in the project as well as latest DRM knowledge, including lessons learned
from on-going post-disaster recovery activities.

21.     Assessment of Project design. At first, the project was designed as a long-term
support program to help the Government and communities to move from focusing on disaster
relief and response to a comprehensive and integrated approach to DRM encompassing
development planning, disaster preparedness, forecasting, prevention, mitigation, recovery
and reconstruction at the national, regional, provincial and local levels. This approach was
adjusted for the country context, and its objectives partially achieved during the project


3
 A list of forty-three Bank-funded projects and twenty-four projects funded by other development agencies
which are related to DRM in Vietnam and other countries were reviewed.

                                                   5
implementation period between 2006 and 2013. The on-going follow-up project - Vietnam
Managing Natural Hazards Project (Vn-Haz) - continues to support the country to fully
achieve the implementation of a comprehensive DRM framework.

22.     Second, the original PDO was clearly-stated and important for the country as
confirmed by the Government’s legislative actions and engagement on DRM. The PDO
addressed the Government’s demands in putting disaster preparedness and forecasting as its
foremost objectives, shifting the focus away from disaster response and relief. The principal
strengths of the project design were: (a) strong country involvement in project designing and
preparation; (b) appropriated strategic choices in supporting Government; and (c) the use of
pilots which allowed the project to identify risks early on in the implementation process and
correspondingly modify the program and project design.

23.    Third, the Government’s commitment was strong, which was vital to be able to
coordinate the implementation of the innovative DRM approaches. From the outset, the
Government led the preparation process with support from the Bank and partners. This
ensured strong ownership and understanding of the project by the central and local authorities.
Project preparation involved an intensive planning process undertaken together with the
provincial, district and commune authorities. This included participatory community
assessment during the selection of the vulnerable communes to be piloted under the project,
and the level of funds allocated to each area for community activities.

24.     Fourth, strategic choices made in the project design reflected both lessons learned and
reality on the ground. The first decision was to focus on integrated DRM instead of pure post-
disaster recovery support. On this basis, the project design emphasized: (a) support to local
capacity development taking into account the Bank’s competitive advantage and other
development agencies’ plans to assist the central DRM agencies, (b) assistance to a selected
number of vulnerable communes with a comprehensive integrated DRM approach (including
CBDRM), which were identified through evidence-based analysis of disaster risks and the
emerging and competitive demands to improve DRM capacity rather than assuming a general
program, and (c) reliance on existing partnership arrangements to improve coordination
between the Government, donors and NGOs rather than creating new ones under the project.

25.     Fifth, another strategic decision was the establishment of clear eligibility criteria for
the selection of sub-projects and a special procurement procedure for emergency situations at
the beginning of the implementation process which helped to minimize resettlement and
adverse environmental impacts as well as the complexity of normal procurement procedures
to ensure the completion of the post-disaster reconstruction support within 12 months.

26.     Lastly, project components were clearly formulated and conducive to PDO
achievement. Project design was flexible, which allowed interested development agencies to
co-finance a number of project activities (i.e. institutional capacity building, CBDRM, etc.),
enabled the reallocation of fund among components (if needed), and mobilization of
additional IDA funding to respond effectively to the highly dynamic post-disaster situation, as
well as implementation of lessons learnt in the course of the project. In addition, the set of
natural hazards initially considered – floods and storms – was also broadened to include other
natural hazards, such as landslide, earthquake and tsunami, under the AF.


                                               6
27.     Overall project risk identification and mitigation at entry. The overall project risk
rating at entry was considered substantial, which seems appropriate for the challenges of the
project related to institutional weaknesses and the innovative nature of the project. However,
even when some of the challenges, which led to implementation delays, cost escalations, and
inadequate project management, were correctly identified as sources of risk during project
preparation, they were insufficiently mitigated in the project design. Other sources of risk
were not identified (and therefore lacked mitigation measures at entry). The main
shortcomings in the risk assessment were:

28.     Impact of the country‘s rapid socio-economic development to the strategic approach
in supporting the DRM agenda: A number of financing instrument options, including APL,
SIL, ERL, DPL with a DDO were discussed by the Government and the Bank during project
preparation. The APL instrument was considered the most suitable for the long term goal of
designing and implementing a comprehensive DRM strategy. However, the rapid
development progress in the country and changes in Government’s priorities for interventions
and capacity-building affected the continuation of the APL form by not achieving one of three
required policy development triggers for progression to APL II as described in para. #16.
Decisions were made at the preparation of both the AF and the follow-up project to shift the
strategic support approach from an APL to a SIL, as the latter provided greater flexibility to
the changing circumstances in the rapidly developing country while still ensuring lessons
learned from the NDRMP were fully incorporated into the project design and implementation.

29.     Underestimation of the Government’s institutional arrangements. The assessment of
the role of CCFSC as the key Government’s coordination body to provide overall guidance
for project implementation was correct. The role of DMC, which was expected to be the key
Government agency to provide coordination and integration among the various agencies and
different levels responsible for natural disaster prevention, response and recovery, was not
sufficiently assessed. At the project beginning, DMC was only a small division within
MARD’s Dyke Management and Flood Control Department (DDMFSC), which acted as the
CCFSC’s Standing Office. In this role, DMC was not in the position to provide the required
coordination under the project. In addition, mitigation measures proposed to improve the
speed and efficiency in the allocation and disbursement of post-disaster recovery resources
were insufficient. An improvement of the existing procedures could not have been achieved
by simply developing a project operational manual but required a revision of the existing
laws. In this case, the existing State Budget Law would need to be revised and ratified by the
National Assembly. The institutional context could have been more carefully assessed during
project preparation, particularly for the AF as lessons learned had been clearly drawn out by
then.

30.     Inadequate implementation capacity. Even though the integrated DRM approach was a
new concept for Vietnam introduced by the project, no critical risks or subsequent mitigation
measures related to capacity of the management units at both central and provincial levels
were identified at appraisal. This led to a delay in the start-up of the project and in also the
implementation of several risk reduction investments. More preparatory work could have been
carried out in order to set out a well-defined implementation strategy.

31.    No Quality at Entry review was conducted for this project.


                                               7
2.2 Implementation

32.   The following are several          key   factors   that   contributed    to   successful
implementation:

33.      Government’s strong ownership. NDRMP was an ambitious program with
implementation challenges facing the Government administrative capacity both at the central,
provincial and community levels. Implementation was delayed in the first three years until the
mid-term review (MTR) due to the complexity of the project in both, the new integrated DRM
approach and implementation arrangement vis-à-vis the weak institutional capacity for DRM.
The MTR identified six issues that undermined implementation: (i) absence of leadership by
MARD; (ii) lack of adequate capacity on the part of the Central Project Office (CPO); (iii)
lack of DDMFC involvement in capacity-building; (iv) insufficient attention to CBDRM
implementation; (v) slow progress on upgrading post-disaster reconstruction procedures; and
(vi) insufficient communications between MARD, CPO, and the provinces. In response,
MARD initiated a series of actions, including: (i) the establishment of the MARD-led Senior
Working Group comprised of a MARD Vice Minister, senior officials from participating
ministries and provinces together with the Project Steering Committee, (ii) timely revision of
the Project Implementation Manual and Components’ Operational Manuals, which further
clarified responsibilities between the various agencies and adjusted the implementation
arrangement at the national, provincial and commune levels, (iii) mobilization of qualified
experts and staff for the CPO/ Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) to undertake
procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation (M&E), social and
environmental safeguards in July 2008, and (iv) subsequent establishment of the technical
working group at DDMFSC in July 2008 to lead day-to-day implementation. MARD’s
immediate actions, combined with the Bank’s close supervision, resulted in improved project
performance. The project was upgraded to “moderately satisfactory” status in May 2009 and
“satisfactory” status in June 2010. Moreover, the disbursement rate was significantly
increased from 16 percent at the MTR to 46 percent in June 2009 and 98 percent at closing
date.

34.     Continuous engagement of local officials and communities. Project activities,
particularly post-disaster reconstruction and CBDRM at the local level were advanced through
close consultation and participation of the communities, including frequent workshops and
training with mayors and officials from participating communes. The CBDRM methodology
for local risk and vulnerability analysis and prioritization of mitigation measures, including
application of the “Build-back-better” approach helped to bring together specialized technical
expertise and local knowledge, while building beneficiaries’ commitment and ownership of
results. The project recruited Commune Facilitators (CFs) under the CBDRM activities, who
played the key roles in strengthening implementation, institutional linkages and information
dissemination between villages and communes. As the results, the CBDRM model piloted in
30 communes under the project has been scaled-up nationwide via the National Program for
CBDRM, which was approved in 2009 and launched in 2010.

35.    Nevertheless, several factors – some outside the control of the Government and
implementing agencies but some within their control – affected implementation
negatively. As a result, the project experienced delays that required several extensions of the


                                               8
original closing date by a total of 24 months. Factors outside of the Government or
implementing agencies control include:

36.     Initially, the project was slowed down by delayed credit effectiveness. Several
effectiveness conditions could not be met on timely basis, including delays in: (i) the
establishment and staffing of the CPMO in MARD, Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the
Southern Regional Hydromet Center of MONRE and Provincial Project Management Unit
(PPMU) in Ben Tre and Nghe An provinces; and (ii) approval by MARD of Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) and feasibility studies of the Year-1 sub-projects. In effect,
more than eight months passed between Bank’s approval in September 2005 and declaration
of effectiveness in May 2006.

37.     Recurrent bad weather interfered with works and unpredictable storms in 2010 and
2011 forced the contractors to frequently stop the construction of several sub-projects exposed
to the sea under Component 1.

38.     Evolution of the country’s legal and institutional frameworks for socio-economic
development. In order to fully achieve the second specific objective of the post-disaster
reconstruction support component and the AF, which was to enhance the speed and efficiency
in allocation and disbursement of post-disaster resources and the effectiveness of public
resource utilization, at least two existing Laws on Procurement and State Budget should have
been adjusted to help establish streamlined procedures for public resources utilization and
mobilization for post-disaster recovery. 4 The revised Procurement Law, which has been
recently adopted by the National Assembly (No. 43/2013/Q/QH13) on November 26, 2013,
and will become effective on June 1, 2014, included provisions to facilitate medium- and
long-term recovery. However, the State Budget Law that would allow a faster process for
allocating and utilizing funds for post-disaster reconstruction is yet to be amended.
Consequently, this specific objective was not fully achieved at the AF’s closing date.

39.    Leadership and capacity constraints in the project implementation agencies/units at
various levels at the beginning of project implementation. While leaving the CPMU largely in
charge, MARD’s leaderships could have been improved, including monitoring and, when
necessary, actively and decisively engaging in addressing bottlenecks. In addition, the CPMU
lacked qualified experts to undertake procurement, financial management, M&E, as well as
social and environmental safeguards. Some delays were related to the weak capacity of
CPMU and PMUs at national and provincial levels in some specific areas, including the
management and adjustment of detailed engineering designs, and preparation of procurement
package for hydromet equipment under Component 1.

40.    Insufficient attention to CBDRM implementation. The CBDRM approach was
introduced in Vietnam in early 2000 by a limited number of NGOs. The implementation was
primarily led by NGOs rather than being mainstreamed into existing Government institutional


4
  Socio-economic development in the country led the Politburo and National Assembly to prioritize the
adjustment and updating of other emerging Laws. In addition, the Government also wanted to incorporate and
update all other issues related to budget and procurement management, which would require time spent on more
consolidated social studies, rather than updating and adjusting issues on emergency response only.

                                                     9
arrangements at the national, subnational, and community levels. Therefore, both MARD
(CPO and other DRM technical agencies) and the targeted communities struggled to initiate
CBDRM activities. The project envisaged capacity-building for CBDRM planning, and a pilot
was launched in 10 communes. Evaluations of the pilot indicated that planning alone was
insufficient and needed to be supplemented by actual investments. The project team secured
additional grant funds from Bank-administered sources (PHRD and JSDF) as well as project-
specific co-financing from the Government of Netherlands, albeit with some delays. Once in
place, this additional grant funding allowed more intensive support to CBDRM which was
successfully provided to 30 communes. The roll-out to the final 10 communes was prevented
in large part because of the subsequent cancellation of US$ 2 million out of the US$8.5
million NTF.

41.    Additionally, the project adopted an unusual approach by providing AF while
simultaneously extending the original project. The AF approved in June, 2010 was
provided for Component 3 only, to be implemented by MoF. At the same time, as described in
para. #17, the original project was extended in order to allow completion of works (through
June, 2011) and the procurement of the hydromet equipment (through May, 2012), under
Component 1 of the original project. This was a pragmatic administrative solution that did not
undermine the efficiency of the project or stretch Bank supervision, since the additional
supervision required by the extensions to the original Credit were incorporated into the
supervision of the AF. However it did reflect, to an extent, the institutional
compartmentalization of the original project across the three ministries MOF, MONRE and
MARD - and contradicted the rationale for a single 'platform' for the Bank's support for DRM.
(As noted elsewhere in this ICR, by the end of the AF this institutional fragmentation had
been addressed, not least in the design of the follow-on Managing Natural Hazards project).


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

42.      M&E design is moderately satisfactory. M&E was challenging given the high degree
of institutional complexity and the novelty of the new approach in DRM. The large number of
sub-projects also posed challenges for maintaining accurate and up-to-date information on
implementation progress and results. The system suffered from some weaknesses in design:
(a) PDO indicators were confusing, which made the project impact and the achievement of the
outcomes difficult to evaluate. In addition, the two PDO level indicators did not capture all
aspects of the PDO, particularly Component 3. Enhancing the speed and efficiency in
allocation and disbursement of post-disaster resources and the effectiveness of public resource
utilization was one of the key objectives of Component 3 and the AF. However, (a) no
revision or adjustment of the PDO indicators was made at the AF preparation to highlight the
importance and capture it; (b) specific definition and methodological precision, including the
difference between outputs and outcomes and different approaches in measuring quantity and
quality of outputs/ outcomes were absent in the PIM; and (c) the baseline survey was not
carried out until July 2009. The development of practical methodology and a baseline survey
to measure some of the key economic, environmental, social, and gender impacts, particularly
for CBDRM, post-disaster recovery support and sub-projects under Component 1, as
identified in the PAD, could had been more carefully addressed at the time of the MTR.



                                              10
43.     M&E implementation and utilization were moderately satisfactory due to
methodological limitations as mentioned above. This led to delays in the establishment of an
effective M&E system. The system was fully operational in July 2009 5, whereas the project
implementation started in May 2006. From this time onwards, the system supported project
implementation and monitoring, allowing for rapid informed decisions and timely resource
allocation. In most cases, data was collected in time following appropriate methods through
monthly and quarterly construction supervision reporting and external monitoring
consultancies. It also contributed to a shift in focus within the Government concerning
infrastructure investments away from measuring inputs and outputs towards measuring
outcomes. All CPMU, PMUs and PPMUs benefited from progress reports prepared by a
qualified independent consultant firm as well as a series of trainings on operation of the M&E
system. The M&E framework of the NDRMP is considered as an example of good practice
and has been used by the GOV in designing their larger M&E systems for tracking both the
implementation of National Strategy for DRM and the National CBDRM Program.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

44.    Safeguards Compliance was satisfactory (OP 4.01, OP 4.04, OP 4.37, OP 4.11, OP
4.12 and OD 4.20). The original project was classified as Environmental Category A and the
AF as Environmental Category B. A safeguard policies package was prepared, including
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), Ethnic Minority Policy Framework (EMPF) and the
Environmental Assessment (EA). A series of training on safeguards for project officers at the
national and provincial levels was conducted as part of the project’s capacity-building
support.

45.     Environmental safeguards compliance was satisfactory. The Project triggered three
environmental safeguard policies including Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Natural
Habitats (OP 4.04) and Safety of Dams (OP 4.37). To address environmental issues relating to
these environmental safeguard policies, six documents as part of the environmental review
were prepared for both the original project and AF, including: (a) a general EA for the entire
project; (b) three specific EAs for the three sub-projects in phase I; (c) an environmental
management framework (EMF) for AF; and (d) an environmental review procedure for
investment under the CBDRM component. In addition, a separate environmental review
procedure was developed for investments under Component 3 (post-disaster reconstruction
support) 6 of the original project. Regarding the policy on safety of dams, dam safety report
and emergency preparedness plan were prepared for Vuc Mau sub-project in the first year by
Dam Safety Unit under MARD and reviewed by an independent panel of experts. During
project implementation, at central level CPO under MARD and PCU under MPI assigned a
full-time staff responsible for project environmental safeguards issues and also hired an
independent environmental monitoring consultant to assist in periodically monitoring
contractors’ compliance with the environmental safeguard policies and preparing monitoring
reports. Additionally, construction supervision consultants were also trained in environmental


5
  The M&E framework was adjusted in October 2010 per recommendations made by the Bank’s 11th supervision
mission conducted in June 2010.
6
  For example, a proposed sub-project would be screened to determine whether it is eligible. All eligible sub-
projects were then prepared with appropriate environmental assessment documents (i.e. EIA or EMP) in
accordance with national environmental protection law and the Bank environmental safeguard policies.

                                                     11
safeguards to undertake daily monitoring of contractor’s environmental safeguard compliance
and reporting to the CPO and PCU. At the provincial level, PPMU also appointed a staff
member responsible for environmental safeguards compliance issues. An environmental
monitoring program was adequately carried out with involvement of locally-affected
communities. Specific actions were fully incorporated into the project planning, information
dissemination, community participation and implementation processes. Consultations with
local stakeholders including locally-affected people, ethnic minorities, and local NGOs (i.e.
the Vietnam Women’s Union, Fatherland Front, Farmer Association, and Veteran
Association), and information disclosure were continuously conducted throughout project
implementation to address safeguard-related issues in a timely manner. Monitoring reports
prepared periodically by independent monitoring consultants and submitted to the Bank
showed that there were no significant environmental issues during implementation. Adverse
environmental impacts due to construction such as dust, noise, wastes, accident risks, traffic
interruption, damages to local roads, cultivation interruption and ecological loss were fully
mitigated through application of proper mitigation measures indicated in the detailed EMPs.
As such, there were no complaints from locally-affected communities. Throughout project
implementation, environmental safeguard policies were fully complied with.

46.     Social safeguards compliance – Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12), and Indigenous
Peoples (OP. 4.10) were satisfactory. Given that the project involved land acquisition to allow
for the rehabilitation of existing civil works, RPF was prepared in accordance with the Bank’s
OP 4.12. The RAPs for first-year sub-projects were also prepared in accordance with the
project’s RPF. In addition, since ethnic minority peoples were present in the project area, an
EMPF was prepared. As a principle, efforts had been made, during project implementation, to
avoid the land acquisition. However, where not avoidable, efforts were made, through
exploring various technical engineering designs, to minimize the impact of the land
acquisition/resettlement.

47.     During the original credit period, despite efforts made to avoid land acquisition, 265
hectare of land (primarily agricultural land) were permanently acquired. This affected 4,168
households, of which 989 households had to resettle, and 165 had their businesses and/ or
more than 20 percent of their agricultural land affected. Compensation payment, financial and
livelihood restoration support, and resettlement work was provided in accordance with the
project’s RPF. During the AF period, since the project focused on the Component 3 - Post-
Disaster Reconstruction, most of the civil works (rehabilitation and construction) took place
within the existing land area. As a result, the need for land acquisition was very small. Minor
land donation (for road rehabilitation works) occurred occasionally with the support from
local people to enable prompt restoration of the roads/ bridges following disaster events.
Although there was no significant impact on the livelihoods of affected households, guidance
was provided by the Bank in such cases to ensure the land donation was legally accepted and
the land acquisition was conducted in accordance with the project’s RPF.

48.     The Bank’s review of the social safeguards implementation of the sub-projects
(including a systematic review by an independent monitoring consultant) indicated that land
acquisition and resettlement was undertaken in full compliance with the project’s RPF.
Complaints were addressed well before project closure. Affected households, particularly
those severely affected, restored their livelihood to pre-project levels. No ethnic minority
households were adversely affected as a result of the project. These households also

                                              12
participated in the consultation during the sub-project preparation. Gender aspects were also
given attention, particularly to families who were severely affected as a result of the project to
support their prompt livelihood restoration.

49.     Financial Management (FM) of the original credit and AF was moderately
satisfactory. The weaknesses in FM capacity of the CPMU were identified at the MTR,
including: (i) lack of accounting software; (ii) late delivery of interim financial reports; (iii)
weak planning and budgeting; and (iv) late appointment of an external auditor. Through a
series of immediate actions undertaken by MARD and its project office and units, including
training provided to the CPMO, PMUs and PPMUs staff, installment of accounting software,
allocation of more staff to perform financial reporting and PPMUs supervision, the FM
performance of the project gradually improved from Moderately Unsatisfactory at MTR to
Moderately Satisfactory toward the end of the project. The AF had better FM performance
compared to the original credit, which was maintained at Moderately Satisfactory throughout
the AF timespan, due to stronger FM skills of the AF CPMU situated with the MOF, and
lessons learnt from implementation of the original credit. While the lack of counterpart
funding proved to be a challenge for provinces during the original credit implementation, the
AF demonstrated stronger performance on managing counterpart funds and did not face
similar issues. The inflexible fund allocation mechanism in the AF, however, led to some
unutilized funds at project closing while demand for funding from provinces still existed. The
issue of ineligible expenditures due to misunderstanding the Financing Agreement occurred in
both original credit and AF, which were then settled by provinces using counterpart fund.

50.    Procurement was moderately satisfactory for both the original credit and AF. An 18-
month procurement plan had been prepared at appraisal. In the subsequent years, detailed
procurement plans were also prepared for each procurement package especially those with
higher value and more technically complex. In general, the procurement performance was
found to be consistent with the Bank’s Procurement Guidelines and the Legal Agreements.
The Bank’s post reviews found a number of procedural deviations and non-compliance.
However, these issues were adequately rectified. There were also some delays in procurement
primarily due to the lack of efficiency and effectiveness in the procurement management of a
few complex packages and in dealing with the price fluctuations. Bank provided support,
including technical training on procurement to CPMO and PCU and guidance on the
preparation of bidding documents, to accelerate the process. These packages were then
successfully awarded and implemented.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

51.   The transitional arrangements to post-completion operation appear to be adequate, as
demonstrated by the following measures:

52.     Institutional arrangement. In February 2010, the Prime Minister issued Decree No.
14/2010/NĐ-CP to rearrange and strengthen the institutional and coordination mechanism of
the CCFSC and its provincial branches across the country. In addition, the DMC which was a
division within MARD’s Dyke Management and Flood and Storm Control Department was
separated and from 2010 onwards promoted as a National Center for DRM.



                                               13
53.     Establishment of DRM legislative framework. With project support, a National
Strategy for Disaster Prevention, Response and Mitigation to 2020 (NS) has been established
and approved by Prime Minister in November 2007. The strategy lays out Vietnam’s primary
DRM objectives to move away from the traditional emergency response and relief focus to a
comprehensive and integrated DRM. Subsequently, a National Action Plan for
implementation of the NS was also approved by the Prime Minister in September 2009. Both
the NS and the action plan are currently being implemented with funding from the central and
local governments, donors and international organizations.

54.     Promotion of the community participatory approach in DRM. CBDRM models,
including CSPs, community early warning and evacuation systems, and community-scale
mitigation measures with participatory approach have been aggregated and consolidated into a
nationwide CBDRM program. The National CBDRM Program was approved by the Prime
Minister in 2009 and is being implemented in some 6,000 disaster vulnerable communes
across the country through funding support from the central and local governments, donors
and international organizations.

55.     Follow-up project. Lessons learnt from the NDRMP were incorporated in the design
of the follow-up US$180 million IDA-financed project titled Vietnam-Managing Natural
Hazards (Vn-Haz). A similar clustering approach for CBDRM and early warning systems has
been incorporated while a river-basin approach was introduced in the design in the follow-up
project. Vn-Haz incorporated a flexible design to better reflect the changing circumstances
and priorities for interventions and capacity-building that might occur during project
implementation linked to Vietnams’ rapid development. VN-Haz became effective in
December 2012 and its implementation has been satisfactory so far.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

56.     The Project Development Objective (PDO) was and remains relevant to Vietnam’s
development priorities and strategies. The country remains highly vulnerable to disasters.
Almost 60 percent of Vietnam’s total land area and over 70 percent of its population are at
risk to the above referenced natural hazards. Over the past two decades, extreme weather
events have caused more than 13,000 deaths and property damage in excess of US$6.4 billion.
DRM challenges have intensified. Climate change is projected to result in a significant
increase in typhoon and flooding risks, including sea level rise in Vietnam. Moreover,
Vietnam will also experience significant increased saltwater intrusion and coastal erosion,
negatively impacting agricultural productivity, aquaculture production, and the vulnerability
of coastal cities 7. The recent World Bank Vietnam Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the
period from 2012 to 2016 acknowledges these issues and reiterates the importance of
improving resilience in the face of external economic shocks, natural hazards and the impact
of climate change (Key Cross-Cutting Theme - Resilience). Similarly, the recently prepared
NS and its National Action Plan also emphasize the importance of investing in risk reduction
and management.



7
    World Bank (2013). Turn Down The Heat: Climate Extremes, Regional Impacts, and the Case for Resilience.

                                                      14
57.     Project Design is consistent with the PDO and relevant to on-going and planned
efforts to face the challenge of disaster risk reduction and management. Project design was
flexible, allowing for the adjustment to reflect emerging good practices regarding institutional
strengthening and engagement of local governments and communities, as well as inclusion of
financing of post-disaster recovery works.

58.     Project Implementation supported the evolution of the legal and institutional
framework for DRM in Vietnam. Implementation arrangements remained relevant throughout
implementation, including the AF, and at the end contributed to the institutionalization of
project interventions and consolidation of CCFSC as the country’s leading DRM coordination
body. Implementation also allowed for the development of approaches and methodologies that
have been mainstreamed in the follow-up VN-Haz project.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

59.     The project has largely achieved its development objective, which was “the
establishment and implementation of a comprehensive risk management framework for
natural disaster prevention, preparedness, mitigation and recovery”.

60.     For the first time a country-level comprehensive DRM framework has been
established through project support. A National Strategy and a National Action Plan were
approved by Prime Minister in November 2007 and September 2009 respectively. The
Strategy lays out Vietnam’s primary DRM objectives in order to move from the traditional
focus on preparedness and response with a strong emphasis on structural measures (such as
dykes and seawalls) to a comprehensive and integrated approach to DRM, including structural
measures (i.e. building and rehabilitation of reservoirs, dams and dykes) and non-structural
measures (i.e. CBDRM, capacity building and institutional strengthening activities). The
Strategy also provides guidance to sectors and provinces in formulation and implementation
of their programs to achieve the overarching objectives of the Strategy. Subsequently all 19
ministries and 63 provinces developed sectoral and provincial action plans respectively for
Strategy’s implementation. These sectoral and provincial action plans built upon the
experiences from the project-supported Integrated Natural Disaster Mitigation Investment
Plans (IDRMPs) which were prepared in 12 provinces. The IDRMPs have been highly
appreciated by the provincial and local governments and incorporated into respective
provincial and local plans.

61.     Supporting the implementation of the NS, the project financed upgrading/ construction
of 12 prioritized large-scale disaster-mitigation structures and 681 community public services
infrastructure, including schools and health care facilities, which were damaged by the heavy
storms and floods in 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2010, for the benefit of more than 3 million people
living in 15 hazard-prone provinces. In addition to the structural measures, the project also
provided a series of activities to build capacity of the government agencies at the national,
provincial and local levels (see para. #65 for further details). Equally important, more than
210,000 villagers living in 30 communes have benefited directly from the CBDRM model,
including the CSPs, community early warning and evacuation systems, and community-scale
mitigation measures. As a result, the CBDRM model which reflects a participatory approach
has been rolled out nationwide through the National Program for CBDRM, which was
approved in 2009 and launched in 2010. The project also helped to leverage support from

                                              15
many donors to strengthen the country’s capacity in DRM. This includes improved
coordination and information-sharing network between the Government, donors such as
ECHO, UNDP, RNE, Embassy of Luxembourg, the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA), AusAID, and international NGOs, such as CARE International, OXFAM
GB, OXFAM HK, World Vision, and ADPC.

62.     The PDO included three complementary outcomes: (i) reducing the vulnerability of
the Project Provinces to flood and other natural hazards, (ii) increasing the efficiency of post-
disaster recovery and reconstruction efforts, and (iii) strengthening the capacity of national
and local DRM institutions.

63.     Reducing the vulnerability of the Project Provinces to flood and other natural hazards
was successfully achieved by the well prepared 17 feasibility studies, technical designs, and
implementation of all 12 project-funded structural investments, vis-à-vis the target of 15
completed feasibility studies and 8 completed sub-projects originally envisaged. The
completed sub-projects, including dyke systems, safe harbors for fishing boats, reservoirs/
dams, pumping station and drainage improvement, have generated good results in prompting
DRM as well as reducing economic losses in the target provinces. For instance, a combination
of dyke and emergency road sub-projects in Hai Lang district of Quang Tri province has
helped to protect 12 communes with a total population of 64,000 people and 5,200 ha of 2-
crop rice. Improved drainage system located along the Hanoi – Ho Chi Minh national railway
route has significantly reduced flooding to ensure the safety of railway operations during the
wet season. Construction of five safety storm shelter harbors has provided better protection
against typhoons for thousand small and medium-size fishing boats, repairing and upgrading
dam safety of the Vuc Mau Reservoir in Nghe An significantly reduced flood risks during the
wet season and provided sufficient water in the reservoir for irrigating more than 2,000 ha of
rice during the dry season. Despite delays in the procurement process, which resulted in
delaying the provision of accurate and reliable forecasts to the concerned communities, the
installation of an early warning system in the Mekong Delta improved the capacity of the
Southern Regional Forecast Center in forecasting and early warning from 10 percent to 90
percent, in particular, information accuracy increased up to 85-90 percent. No damage in the
protected areas was reported during the wet season of the subsequent years after completion of
the risk reduction investments.

64.     Increasing the efficiency of post-disaster recovery and reconstruction efforts was
partially achieved: guidelines for a damage and needs assessment (DANA) with a detailed set
of objective and measurable criteria for allocation for post-disaster assistance were developed
in close consultation with relevant agencies at national and subnational levels, NGOs and
communities. Affected provinces and communities followed these detailed criteria to
prioritize the sub-projects in need of reconstruction. The operational manual and criteria were
frequently adjusted and improved to better fit the local context. All reconstructed public
infrastructure operated well and withstood recent storms and subsequent floods in 2013.
Efficiency improvements in post-disaster recovery and reconstruction efforts have not been
fully achieved as both speed and quality remain the same as before the project. Despite
urgency, the current procedures are no different from normal public investment procedures.
The project targeted the completion of the entire of cycle of damages assessment, budget
mobilization, technical design, procurement and construction within 12 months. In reality, at
end of project it still took 8-14 months to complete the damages assessment and budget

                                               16
mobilization 8 . Consequently, the project did not fully meet its target in strengthening
Government’s procedures for a rapid disbursement facility to fund post-disaster
reconstruction. It is widely accepted that there is a need for a ‘fast-track’ procedure for
prioritization of sub-projects and mobilization of available resources for medium and long
term post-disaster recovery activities. The project financed a review of the existing procedures
and recommendations for a new mechanism were submitted to the Government, relevant
ministries (including MPI, MOF and MARD) and provinces for their decision. These
recommendations are being discussed under (i) the on-going MOF-led revision of the State
Budget Law; and (ii) the MARD-led development of a detailed Government Decree on the
establishment of the community funds for DRM. Specialists from various relevant World
Bank teams, including Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) and
Procurement are providing technical inputs to both processes.

65.     Strengthening the capacity of national and local DRM institutions. The capacity of
CCFSC and its Standing Office has been strengthened. The Prime Minister’s Decree No.
14/2010/NĐ-CP dated February 27, 2010 rearranged and strengthened the institutional and
coordination mechanisms of CCFSC and its provincial branches across the country. In
addition, the DMC, which was a division of the MARD’s Dyke Management and Flood and
Storm Control Department (as the Standing Office of the CCFSC), was promoted to be a
national center for DRM from 2010 onwards. CCFSC, including its Standing Office and
DMC, has been effectively coordinating the implementation of the NS. In particular, they
effectively responded to Typhoon Nargis and Ilke (2008) and Ketsana (2009), to floods in the
central region (2009, 2010) and in the Mekong Delta (2011), and to Typhoon Naris, Wutip
and Hyain (2013). Community capacity on DRM has also been strengthened through the
implementation of the CBDRM activities. Involvement of communities ensured ownership
and sustained quality of investment, as well as increased local awareness. On the other hand,
it also promoted partnership and collaboration between central, provincial and commune
levels, and between commune officials and the local people. The CBDRM component
demonstrated adaptability in implementation (i.e. the outcomes of the pilot) and leveraged
substantial funding for its (modified) implementation. It guided the establishment of the
Government’s National Program on CBDRM which covers 6,000 vulnerable communes
across the country. Although only 30 communes received the CBDRM support versus the
target of 40 communes originally envisaged at project design, this reflected the needs of
communities to include the investments on structural and non-structural measures in the
support of the implementation of the SCP instead of only non-structural measures as the
original design during the implementation of the pilot phase in 10 communes. Between 80-90
percent of expenditures per commune were for structural measures, whereas only 10 percent
for non-structural measures. This placed substantial demands on available financing which
was compounded by the cancellation of US$2 million out of the US$8.5 million NTF for
rolling out the CBDRM model in other 30 vulnerable communes in March 2010.
3.3 Efficiency (details are presented in Annex 3)


8
  Some current steps present technical challenges in comparing the needs among different sectors, including
prioritization and the development of an inter-sectoral reconstruction package, and impose unnecessarily lengthy
administration at the national level. For instance, the review of MPI at national level and DPI at the provincial
level should be unnecessary since most of the proposed investments were small-scale reconstruction works,
which fall under the responsibility of the provinces.

                                                       17
66.     The overall economic analysis prepared at project closing show that the aggregate
project investments are having an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of about 25 percent. The
economic analysis considered costs and benefits from the country’s perspective. The analysis
considered the expected ERR from the C1 and C3 investments. At appraisal no cost-benefit
analysis was done for the project as it was considered inappropriate to evaluate investments in
prevention and post-disaster recovery activities.

67.     Investments for enhancing disaster response capability and reducing vulnerability
generate returns in terms of capital stock damage being avoided and lives being saved in the
events of natural hazards. Flood maps were prepared to determine possible losses, weighted
by the expected frequency of occurrence of different natural hazards their and intensities.
Dynamic hydraulic models for both “with” and “without project” scenarios represented: (i)
the enhanced scenario including the structural and non-structural investments completed
under the NDRMP, and (ii) the pre-existing damaged and/ or precarious structures and poor
preparedness capacity available before the project. By mapping the expected flooded area
under different natural events together with the duration and depth of flood in the affected
areas, and overlapping those maps with the land use and affected assets in the flooded areas,
the corresponding expected value of project benefits were estimated.

68.     Benefits were estimated from most of the sub-projects financed under C1 and from
typical investments financed under C3. C1 and C3 spent about 90 percent of the project costs
including the AF. Reduced expected losses considered included: (i) those directly affecting
the family households (lost agricultural production and household assets); (ii) private and
public infrastructure (roads, electricity, water systems, schools, etc.); and (iii) human health
costs, lives saved, and environmental protection values. The C2 and C4 costs were also
considered for the analysis as they contributed to the attainment of the benefits from the two
core components by enhancing the effectiveness of the project interventions, by building
capacity to manage risks and by coordinating implementation among stakeholders.

69.     The financial assessment confirmed that by reducing the expected losses due to
natural hazards the livelihood of the poor in the project areas is significantly improved. Farm
models combining typical cropping patterns and livestock activities for the analyzed sub-
project areas representing typical household were also prepared. The project improvements
would allow for increases in household income of about 11 percent to 45 percent depending
on the area and the type of works involved.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

70.     The rating for the project’s overall outcomes is considered as moderately satisfactory
because: (i) the objectives, design and implementation of the project remain highly relevant to
the country’s development priorities; (ii) all PDO and most intermediate outcome indicators
were substantially attained; and (iii) the economic efficiency of the investments is well above
the reference 12 percent opportunity cost of capital.

71.   The project achieved its development objective by establishing and supporting the
implementation of the National Strategy on DRM. At the intermediate outcomes level, the

                                              18
project strengthened the capacity of the Government’s institutional arrangement for DRM at
various levels and communities, demonstrated by their effective response to subsequent
typhoons and other hazards. Participatory CBDRM was widely promoted and recognized by
the GOV through the National Program for CBDRM launched in 2010. However, the impact
of project was not optimized because project outputs were fragmented and somewhat
uncoordinated. For example, whereas the prioritized large-scale disaster-mitigation structure
was focused in a single location, the CBDRM and the early warning system were undertaken
in different locations. Consequently, the project missed potential synergies between structural
and nonstructural interventions, which is an important feature of contemporary approaches to
DRM.

72.    Post-disaster reconstruction support significantly helped the Government and the
communities in filling funding gaps for recovery activities. It also introduced a faster effective
procedure for prioritization of public infrastructure and funding allocation for post-disaster
reconstruction, including damage and needs assessment, and a detailed set of objective and
measurable criteria for allocation for post-disaster assistance. However, mainstreaming such
arrangements into GOV’s procedures was not yet achieved as it requires revisions to the
Government’s exiting Laws which are yet to be fully enacted.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

73.      Damage and loss assessments indicate that disasters tend to affect the poor
disproportionately due to their social and physical vulnerability. The project had an impact by
helping to increase the resilience of poor communities thus avoiding increased poverty levels
after disasters. The project also helped to strengthen the social capital of these communities
through the participatory processes for risk and vulnerability analysis and preventive
planning. This social capital is reflected in mutual support systems that can help communities
not only in responding to future disasters, but also in engaging in risk mitigation. In addition,
after reconstructing public infrastructure such as irrigation cannels, pumping stations and rural
roads, rural people subsequently improved their agricultural and livelihood activities enabling
them to increase household incomes. Reconstruction of schools with more space and better
facilities helped to substantially increase the school attendance. In this way, community social
development has been also supported.

74.     The gender approach mainstreamed into Project design, especially C2 (CBDRM) and
C4 (Institutional Strengthening) have facilitated women’s participation and access to
information. The number of female beneficiaries participating in the planning processes,
project activities implementation and trainings significantly increased - This is an important
result since women have lower literacy levels and less time available to participate in
meetings due to socially and culturally assigned gender roles. The project also worked with
men to promote a gender approach that attempted to balance their assumed role as
“protectors” – which has often resulted in higher mortality among males as was the case
during emergency responses – and the building of community wide support systems that was
more inclusive of women.



                                               19
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

75.     The project substantially contributed to the institutionalization of an effective DRM
system. Key agencies such as CCFSC, MARD, MONRE, MOF and MOT, as well as
participating provinces and communes, were strengthened and are now working in a more
coordinated manner. CCFSC’s organizational structure at the central and provincial level was
reformed. DMC was established to be the focal point for DRM in the country. In addition to
the improved flood forecasting network, institutional capacity of both Southern Regional
Forecast Center and provincial forecast offices, as well as of the provincial DRM agencies
was increased through training, flood risk assessments and hydrologic simulation modeling.
Likewise, participating communes were provided with better tools and capacity to deal with
local DRM issues in partnership with local NGOs and mass-organizations.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


76.     As a result of the project, several additional positive outcomes have also been
identified, including: (a) increased demand for mitigation investments; and (b) better
understanding of the importance of territorial planning, particularly with reference to the
challenge of managing growth in high risk areas.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/ or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate.

77.     The Government demonstrated strong commitment to DRM policy and programs and
overall sustainability is likely given the strong local ownership of project investments, and the
demands from a motivated and better organized population. Integration of DRM issues into
provincial and community planning processes and increased awareness of the consequences of
climate change also contributed to continuity of the efforts started under the project.
Development outcome, however, continues to face some internal risks:
   a. Inefficient coordination between sectoral ministries and between central, provincial
      and commune level persists although institutional capacity and cross-coordination
      mechanism have been strengthened. Integrated approaches for DRM require complex
      coordination mechanisms and efforts from stakeholders at central, provincial and
      commune level, local organizations, and state-owned and private enterprises. This
      requires a central agency which is empowered to lead and facilitate the coordination.
      Instead, the CCFSC – as a coordination body for GOV – is chaired at the ministerial
      level (MARD), and its Standing Office – which is responsible for facilitating the cross
      ministry coordination – is established within MARD. The ability of MARD to
      leverage actions from other (peer) ministries remains a concern.

   b. Sustaining technical capacities at the provincial and commune levels is challenged by
      the staff turnover policy. Continuous training and updating of information will be
      required to maintain the relevance of DRM local programs.

                                               20
   c. Streamlined financing procedures for post-disaster recovery have not been
      established. The current legal framework and administration procedures do not yet
      enable a separate process for the post-disaster reconstruction works. Therefore, despite
      the urgency for post-disaster recovery, reconstruction continues to take from 8 to 14
      months from disaster events to the start of the reconstruction. The Government is
      currently considering new procedures for a rapid and efficient allocation and
      disbursement of post-disaster resources under an on-going MOF-led review of public
      expenditure.

   d. Ensuring O&M of investments. There are three key risks to O&M: (i) Local communes
      were fully engaged in identifying, prioritizing, and supervising the investments and
      this promoted beneficiaries’ satisfaction. Moreover, most works are small, with low
      maintenance demands. However, few rural commune authorities can cover the O&M
      costs. Sustainable financing for O&M requires contributions not only from the local
      communes but also from central and provincial budget transfers earmarked for public
      infrastructure to complement local contributions; (ii) Although MONRE and its
      Southern Regional Forecast Center should assume the maintenance of the hydro-
      meteorological network and equipment, MONRE does not always allocate sufficient
      human and financial resources for this task or provide adequate training; and (iii)
      Community-based flood early warning systems were developed with vulnerable and
      poor communities. Keeping these systems active will require renewal of basic
      equipment and continuous engagement by local authorities which can prove
      challenging in the context of existing budget limitations.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.

78.     The Bank played an important role in facilitating project preparation and ensuring
quality at entry during project appraisal. Positive aspects included: (a) close collaboration
between the Bank and the Borrower during project preparation; (b) high relevance of the
project to both the Government’s and the Bank’s strategies; (c) flexibility of project design
and the inclusion of innovative elements that enhanced project impact; and (d) reasonable
targets in a context of institutional evolution and experimentation. The main elements of
project design, procedures and manuals were carefully prepared and reviewed by Government
and Bank staff and management. Lessons derived from some forty-three Bank-funded and
twenty-four other donor-funded projects, related to DRM in Vietnam and around the world,
were taken into consideration. The main shortcoming was the underestimation of the risk
factor regarding the Government’s institutional arrangements (refer to para. #29) and the lack
of subsequent mitigation measures related to the low capacity of the management units at both
central and provincial levels identified at appraisal vis-à-vis the introduction new integrated
approach in DRM. The preparation of institutional strengthening activities could have been
more closely aligned with the Government’s sector priorities to foster greater ownership of
outcomes. Environmental and social safeguards, and fiduciary aspects were taken into



                                              21
consideration in the project design and appropriate arrangements were made to ensure
compliance during implementation.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

79.     The moderately satisfactory rating for quality of supervision was influenced by the
following positive factors: sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project
was adequately supervised. Supervision mission were timely and solution-oriented. The task
team prepared Aide-Memoires regularly and alerted the Government and the CPMO/ PPMUs
to problems facilitating remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with the Bank procedures
and trust fund-support donors’ policies. In particular, the MTR provided effective remedial
measures. Critical issues affecting project implementation were adequately handled, including
bringing in additional international expertise. The Bank supervision also helped to shift the
strategic support approach from APL to SIL in order to respond to the implementation
experience to ensure the achievement of the development objectives. The task team monitored
safeguard and fiduciary compliances. Bank’s procurement and financial management staff
worked effectively with the CPMO, PPMUs and other implementing agencies on procedures
to be applied, procurement of goods and works, and the selection of consultants.

80.     However, there were some shortcomings on the part of the Bank, such as the lack of
adequate attention to the economic analysis during the supervision missions and the change of
procurement method from ICB to NCB for the purchase of three project vehicles that delayed
the delivery of the project activity. The Bank provided flexibility that supported the client in
meeting intended objectives, though responses could have been more expedient.

81.     The high turnover of TTLs also affected the implementation of the project, particularly
the procurement aspects of the AF. At the beginning of the project implementation, it was
agreed between the Bank and GOV that the direct contracting method would be applied for
the procurement of the post-disaster reconstruction sub-projects, taking into consideration the
emergency needs for immediately restoring critical infrastructure damaged after a natural
disaster, and the nature and size of the procurement. Later, in the second half of the AF’s
lifespan, the Bank requested that shopping method be applied in an effort to expedite the
Government’s procedures for a speedy and efficient allocation and disbursement of post-
disaster resources, while maintaining compliance with Bank policy.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

82.     The overall Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory reflecting the
above ratings on quality at entry and quality of supervision. The Bank team made a strong
effort to prepare and supervise a project in a challenging sector environment. Such effort
ultimately allowed the project to deliver most of its intended development objectives, but
some shortcomings contributed to delays affecting performance efficiency.

83.    No Quality of Supervision (QSA) was conducted by QAG for this project.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
                                               22
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

84.      Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory considering its sustained
commitment to achieving the PDO, especially the concerted effort to consolidate the legal and
institutional framework for DRM while strengthening key agencies and local communities.
Given the innovative and inter-sectoral nature of the project, the rating also reflects
shortcomings with regard to several critical issues, such as the poor coordination between
relevant Government agencies for prioritizing investments, implementation progress reporting
and budgeting, and slow flow of counterpart funds for resettlement compensation.
Government’s performance reveals priority areas for improvement that can inform further
institutional strengthening.
(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

85.     The moderately satisfactory rating reflects the different performance levels of the
various agencies that were responsible for the project. Throughout implementation, the main
implementing agencies carried out project activities in a responsible manner, acting promptly
on pending issues, requests and proposals. They endowed the project management units with
adequate staff and equipment and independent leadership. Staff continuity in the project
management units was high, and staff had access to sufficient funds for all implementation-
related activities. However, during the first half of project implementation (up until the MTR),
the implementation agencies did not perform as expected partly due to the innovative
approach of the project that required complex institutional arrangements which led to a lack of
project ownership and slow decision making, the inadequate attention to implementation of
environmental safeguards staffing and monitoring requirements, and the delays in establishing
the project M&E system at the central and provincial levels.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

86.    The Borrower’s overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory considering
both the Government’s and implementing agencies’ performance. There were shortcomings in
implementing agencies’ performance in the first half of project life but they were eventually
overcome and the PDO was achieved.

6.   Lessons Learned
87.     DRM decisions should be made based on perceived risk reduction benefits and a
combination of the physical and non-physical solutions in a context of larger integrated
river-basin management scale. Investments under this project were scattered in many places
and did not follow either geographical or hydrological approach that was most appropriate
given the most common disaster types. In order to maximize their impact, the physical
mitigation investments should be linked with CBDRM activities, hydromet data and early
warning services. The river-basin approach could provide both the central GOV and the
provinces with a better and more effective planning tool in managing water resources, and
water-related disaster events. In sum, a multi-hazard risk assessment approach at the river-basin
scale is important to better understand the level of vulnerability of the population and assets at


                                               23
provincial and local level, while promoting the sustainability of water use and sustainability of
natural resources.

88.     Existing institutional settings need to be leveraged to implement CBDRM
activities. Properly trained beneficiaries are important catalysts for local intervention and
ownership. The CFs played a key role in reinforcing the institutional linkages and information
dissemination between villages and communes. CFs should be appointed by the Commune
People Committee rather than being hired by the project so that they can continue in their
duties after project completion. Building capacity at the district level is critical for facilitating
effective transfer of investment ownership to communes.

89.     Tailored public information and awareness-raising, including gender
mainstreaming, are essential for commune participation, accountability and investment
ownership. Efforts to reach vulnerable groups including women, children, elderly, the
disabled and ethnic minorities at the village level should be considered. Information must be
tailored to reach the diverse target groups and audiences considering ethnicity, age, gender
and social status.

90.    Appropriate O&M funds at local levels need to be allocated. A large number of
commune-scale mitigation and public infrastructure have been constructed by the project
through the implementation of the CBDRM and post-disaster reconstruction components. The
O&M of these structures is the responsibility of the communes. However, most of rural
commune authorities cannot cover the O&M costs. Sustainable financing for O&M requires
contributions from the local communes but also from central and provincial budget transfers
earmarked for public infrastructure to complement local contributions. Therefore, O&M
budget should be sufficiently allocated through the government annual budget planning cycle
conducted in all levels.

91.     Strong institutional reform and leadership of the coordination agency is essential
for project success and sustainability. Although the institutional set up for DRM in Vietnam
has been strengthened through the project lifespan, efficiency and effectiveness in the
leadership and coordination of the DRM agenda implementation still need to be improved
further. Despite MARD’s mandated leadership role in DRM, it was sometimes difficult for
MARD to influence MONRE and MOF in project implementation. Since these Ministries are
on an equal footing, MARD lacked leverage to ensure compliance and had to depend on
goodwill of sister line agencies. Anticipated cross-agency collaboration and coordination
between MARD, MONRE and MOF on DRM was not effectively achieved at the project
closing. Stronger coordinating leadership of central GOV would enable stronger institutional
reforms, which would greatly influence the performance and sustainability of the project.
Coordination between institutional actors, information dissemination and program
management capacity are key factors for the success of an integrated, sustainable DRM
program.

92.     Clear institutional arrangements and responsibilities need to be determined
before project start. The project included numerous innovative approaches which were
complex to implement. Detailed draft TORs for all agencies at both national and provincial
levels could have been developed prior to project start. The project would have benefited from


                                                 24
mobilizing experienced Government officials to work at the project offices at the national and
provincial levels.

93.     Achievement of the sustainable goal for post-disaster reconstruction should be
monitored closely and properly throughout the implementation of both Original Credit
and AF. MOF – within its mandate – was expected to act at a higher level in establishing
criteria for allocating funds to provinces in a quick and efficient manner for post-disaster
reconstruction. Unfortunately, they were distracted from achieving this sustainable goal by the
concentration in the detailed oversight of the implementation of small sub-projects scattered
across the country. As such, a ‘fast-track’ procedure for prioritization of sub-projects and
mobilization of available resources for medium and long term post-disaster recovery activities
has been partially achieved at the project closing.

94.    Comprehensive M&E framework should be prepared and put in place before the
project start. An M&E system was established and put in full operation only three year into
implementation. In addition, no detailed baseline assessment was undertaken under the
NDRMP. As such, tracking and confirming development outcomes were difficult.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
A summary of the Borrower’s ICR is attached as Annex 7. No major issues were raised.

(b) Cofinanciers
The task team invited comments from co-financiers (the Netherlands Government and
AusAid). No comments were received from AusAid. The Netherlands Government stated
their view that the US$2 million was withheld due to the slow progress of the implementation.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                              25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
          Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                                   Appraisal
                                                               millions)
Prevention and Mitigation
                                            73.70                   86.82               117.80%
Investments
Community-based Disaster Risk
                                             1.00                     4.53              453.00%
management
Post-Disaster Reconstruction
                                            95.80                   92.99                97.06%
Support
Project Management and
                                            12.00                     6.82               56.83%
Institutional Strengthening
              Total Baseline Cost          182.50                190.68                 104.48%
Physical Contingencies                       0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies                          0.00                  0.00
               Total Project Costs         182.50                190.68                 104.48%
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                  0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                  0.00
       Total Financing Required            182.50                190.68                 104.48%


(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate        Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD            (USD       Appraisal
                                                          millions)       millions)
Borrower                                                   12.00           16.29      135.75%
Trust funds                                                 4.50           11.85      263.33%
International Development Association
                                                           161.00            162.54        100.95%
(IDA)

Note:
- Credit cancellation: US$2,310,362 from the original credit at the closing date in June 2012
was cancelled due to the delayed procurement of the hydromet equipment. Also,
US$3,619,714 saved from the exchange rate fluctuation under the AF was cancelled in
December 2013.
- Grants return: By June 29, 2012, a total of US$607,894 was returned to financing agencies.
Of which, US$78,559 was to JSDF, US$517.496 was to PHRD and US$11,839.61 was to
NTF




                                                33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project had four components: (a) Prevention and Mitigation Investments; (b) Community-
based DRM; (c) Post-Disaster Reconstruction Support; and (d) Project Management and
Institutional Strengthening. Main outputs by each component are detailed below:

Component 1: Prevention and Mitigation Investments
Appraisal Estimate: US$73.70 million
Actual/Latest Estimate:
                  Output indicators           Baseline Project          Actual        %
                                                       Target           Value       target
                                                                       Achieved
1   Number of sub-projects in conformity with    0             4          17        425%
    the national strategy of disaster prevention
    and mitigation up to 2020
 2 Number of feasibility studies completed for   0             4          17        425%
    sub-projects to be funded under the project
 3 Number of safe harbor completed               0             2           5        250%
 4 Number of flood mitigation structures         0             1           4        400%
    completed
 5 Number of flood drainage system completed     0             1           2        200%
 6 Number of sets of hydromet equipment          0             5           5        100%
    equipped
 7 Number of water level stations completed      0             89         89        100%
 8 Number of hydrological stations completed     0             18         18        100%
    Number of surface meteorological stations    0             12         12        100%
    completed
 9 Number of building centers completed          0             8          8         100%
10 Percentage of people in targeted              0            10%        90%        900%
    communities (e.g. Mekong Delta) reporting
    improved early warning of floods and
    storms.
Component 2: Community-based Disaster Risk management
Appraisal Estimate: US$1.00 million
Actual/Latest Estimate:
11 Number of ToTs provided                       0                         10       100%
12 Number of government officials participated   0                        226       100%
    the ToT courses
13 Number of community awareness/training        0                        306       100%
    events on "DRM" conducted.
14 Number of people participated in              0                      80,900      100%
    awareness/training events
15 Number of "Safer Commune Plans” (SCPs)        0             40         30         75%
    prepared.
16 Number of life-saving toolkits provided to    0                      11,325      100%
    communes


                                           33
17 Number of commune EWS provided                  0               1,284      100%
18 Number of commune office equipment              0                263       100%
    provided
19 Total length of combined emergency relief       0              16.274 m    100%
    and rural roads rehabilitated
20 Total length of irrigation cannel rehabilitated 0               2.200m     100%
21 Total length of river bank protected            0                400m      100%
22 Number of culvert constructed                   0                  23      100%
23 Number of “Safer Community Plans”               0      40          30       75%
    integrated into commune SEDP
24 Number of commune disaster integrated           0                 30       100%
    SEDP annually updated
Component 3: Post-disaster Reconstruction Support
Appraisal Estimate: US$20.80 million
Actual/Latest Estimate:
25 Number of provinces received post-disaster      0                 15       100%
    reconstruction support
26 Number of districts received post-disaster      0                214       100%
    reconstruction support
27 Number of damaged schools reconstructed         0                201       100%
28 Number of damaged health centers                0                 56       100%
    reconstructed
29 Number of damaged rural roads                   0                242       100%
    reconstructed
30 Number of damaged irrigation scheme             0                182       100%
    reconstructed
31 Number of direct beneficiaries benefited        0              3,267,324   100%
    from the support
32 Number of women directly benefited from         0              1,487,354   100%
    the support
33 Number of ethnic people directly benefited      0              304,635     100%
    from the support
34 Number of procedures for Damage                         1         1        100%
    Assessment revised                             0
35 Number of acceptable criteria approved for      0       1         1        100%
    prioritizing allocation of post-disaster
    assistance
36 Percentage of completed sub-projects            0               100%       100%
    withstanding subsequent disaster events
Component 4: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
Appraisal Estimate: US$12.00 million
Actual/Latest Estimate:
37 Number of trainings/workshops conducted         0                 14       100%
    for government officials on project
    management, DA, EMP, EIA, RAP,
    procurement, M&E


                                        34
38 Number of government officials trained on    0        989     100%
   project management, DA, EMP, EIA, RAP,
   procurement, M&E
39 Number of domestic trainings/workshops to    0         20     100%
   government officials on DRM
40 Number of oversea                            0         9      100%
   trainings/workshops/study tours on DRM
   conducted
41 Number of government officials               0        1,475   100%
   trained/benefited from oversea
   trainings/workshops/study tours
42 Number of river basin developed hydraulic    0         3      100%
   models
43 Number of commune flash flood and land       0         5      100%
   slide systems installed
44 Number of GIS software and equipment         0         1      100%
   installed
45 Number of provinces with developed hazard    0   10    12     120%
   mapping/atlas
46 Number of provinces with completed natural   0   10    12     120%
   disaster mitigation investment plans
47 Number of provinces with provincial SEDP     0   10    17     170%
   integrated DRM
48 Number of National Strategy for DRM and      1   1     1      100%
   Action Plan developed




                                         35
Annex 3. Economic Analysis

Background
1.      The NDRMP development objective was the establishment and implementation of a
comprehensive natural DRM framework for natural disaster prevention, preparedness,
mitigation and recovery in Vietnam. There were four NDRMP components: C1: prevention
and mitigation investments, C2: community-based DRM, C3: post-disaster reconstruction
support; and C4: project management and institutional strengthening.
2.     C1: Investment into natural disaster mitigation and prevention sub-projects aimed to
minimize the disaster risk in regions with high risk of flood and storm and to enhance the
capacity of prevention and control through the implementation of structural and non-structural
investments. Twelve sub-projects were financed including construction and improvement of
flood and storm control infrastructure in 11 sites, and one non-structural sub-project for
enhancing the capacity of the Mekong River Delta Flood Early Warning System. From the
IDA US$73.7 million budget for C1, US$68.5 million were spent (93 percent).
3.      C2: Community based disaster risk management (CBDRM) sought to minimize natural
disaster damages and enhance the control and prevention capacity in selected regions through
community involvement. It improved the capacity of individuals and groups for preparing and
implementing risk minimizing methods to manage natural risks. SCPs were developed in 30
communes. A pilot program completed in March 2009 (US$1.46 million) with 10 communes
of three provinces included the development of their SCPs; training the community capacity
in the DRM; and rescue equipment and small-sized work construction in the communes.
Building on lesson learned from this pilot phase, C2 also supported the expansion into 20
additional communes. This second phase was developed with a budget of US$3.07 million.
4.       C3: Post-disaster Re-construction Support enhanced the control and prevention
capacity in regions by supplying the public infrastructure re-construction budget for assisting
communities after the disasters occurred, including support to ensure faster reconstruction,
minimizing the poverty and impact on economic growth and improving the funds-use
efficiency. C3 targeted the recurrent financial deficit in the budgets for reconstruction
activities, creating conditions for quick disbursement to support re-construction efforts for
small-sized public infrastructure and other type of support for quick recovery. Implemented
by MOF, the original budget for C3 was US$20 million, and the provinces originally
supported were those affected by the Xangsane and Lekima storms. Investments under the
original C3 financed a total of 165 sub-projects for US$18.9 million.
5.      The Additional Financing (AF) effective on November 8, 2010 expanded the scope of
the NDRMP adding US$75 million for C3 to fill a substantial post-disaster reconstruction
financing gap in the wake of two recent storms (Ketsana and Miriniae) and further anticipated
short-term reconstruction financing gaps resulting from future major natural disasters. With
the AF approval, the closing date of the NDRMP was extended to December 31, 2013. The
allocations for investments under C3 with the AF reached to US$95 of the overall NDRMP
costs, representing 52 percent of the overall assigned budget.
6.     C4: Project management and institution strengthening aimed to improve the control
and prevention capacity in the regions through developing an effective management and

                                              37
implementation, and enhancing the institutional arrangements to ensure coordination between
agencies at different levels towards the control, prevention, and recovery stages.
Economic and Financial Analysis

7.       NDRMP expected results were to reduce vulnerability to flood and storm hazards in
selected project areas, increasing the efficiency of post-disaster recovery and reconstruction
efforts, and strengthening the capacity of national and local DRM institutions. By repairing
the damage of key protective facilities and/or upgrading the structures located in affected
regions, disaster vulnerability of the selected areas can be clearly reduced. Investments to
enhance disaster response capability and reduce vulnerability generate returns in terms of
capital stock damage being avoided and lives being saved in the events of natural hazards.
Conventional cost-benefit analysis method might be considered inadequate to assess
investments on structures protecting areas prone to disasters, and post-disaster recovery
investments and activities, as there is little empirical data to measure the correlation between
pre-disaster preventing investments and reduction of future losses. However, a probability
based analysis using dynamic hydraulic models allows calculating incremental benefits as the
difference in expected value of losses under the alternative scenarios: before and after the
project.
8.      The estimation of these benefits was based on flood maps 9 prepared to determine
possible losses and weighted by the corresponding frequency or probability of occurrence of
different natural hazards intensities. Dynamic hydraulic models for both “with” and “without
project” scenarios represent: (i) the project enhanced current scenario including the structural
and non-structural investments completed under the NDRMP, and (ii) the pre-existing
damaged and/or precarious structures and poor preparedness capacity. By mapping the
expected flooded area during an alternative hazard event, together with the duration and depth
of water in the affected areas, and overlapping the land use and existing assets in each
location, the expected value of damages and corresponding rehabilitation costs were
estimated.
9.      The economic benefit of the project was estimated from most of the sub-projects
financed under C1 and from typical investments financed under C3. Both components spent
about 90 percent of the project costs. Expected losses reduced included: (i) those directly
affecting the family households (lost production of rice and other crops, cows/buffalos, pigs,
poultry and household assets, (ii) other private and public infrastructure (roads, electricity,
water systems, etc.), and (iii) human health or life and environmental protection values. The
second and forth components’ costs were also considered as they contributed to the attainment



9
  Flooded area is estimated based on flood maps obtained through hydraulic calculations to determine water volume linked to
flood flowing into a specific region or area. Water levels are determined from the frequency curve of river water levels and
frequencies of occurrence. Flood water over-toping (for both without and with project) and dimension of a break and time of
a flood, allow to estimate the amount of water flowing to the area. Based on the estimated amount of water over-topped and
topographical maps, the water level inundation is calculated. With each flooded water level, inundation areas are determined,
and by overlaying with land use maps, the inundated area for each use (such as residential lands, agriculture or aquaculture
areas, roads, etc.) is determined and inundation water level are defined into several depth flood area (0.2m, 0.5m, 1m, 2m,
etc.). From local unit cost of damage, inundation depths and time of inundation, the reduced damage/benefit for each land use
can be estimated. The procedure is repeated for several typical flood return periods (such as p=1%, p=2%, p=5%, p=10%,
depending on category and grade), and the value of damage corresponding to its probability of occurrence is obtained.
Expected value of loss/damage for asset is calculated by multiplying its frequency with the corresponding damage.
                                                            38
of the quantified benefits from the two core components (C1 and C3) by enhancing
effectiveness of the project’s preventive measures, building capacity to manage risks and by
coordinating implementation.
10.     Sub-projects under C1 minimized the disaster risks due to natural hazards, and
enhanced the capacity of prevention and control in regions with highest risks of floods and
storms through the effective implementation of structural and non-structural investments. The
twelve sub-projects prioritized under C1, including the construction and improvement of flood
and storm control infrastructure, and also one non-structural scheme aiming to enhance the
early disaster warning and management systems in the Mekong River Delta area. From the
US$67.2 million allocated funds for implementing sub-projects under C1, US$58.6 million
were spent (about 87 percent of the original C1 cost). These C1 sub-projects expenditures
represented almost 70 percent of the original project cost budgeted at appraisal.
11.     C3 budget included: (i) US$20.8 million representing 20 percent of the original
project costs, and (ii) US$ 75 million incorporated as AF. C3 supported the Government’s
efforts for minimizing post-disaster damages and enhancing the emergency Government
response, control and prevention capacities both at the central level and in the regions
suffering recurrent floods and storms. By ensuring faster and more efficient post-disaster
reconstruction support, C3 also contributed to minimize poverty and the impact on economic
growth, and improved the speed and the efficiency of allocation and disbursement of funds
after disaster. C3 was implemented in 8 provinces showing the highest risks of being hit by
natural hazards. About 165 reconstruction and/or upgrading works on schools, health stations,
roads and bridges, sea dyke and irrigation works were implemented under the C3 budget.
12.    Since C1 and C3 costs represented about 90 percent of the investments financed under
the original credit and the AF, representative cases of sub-projects from both components
were selected to measure the impact attained by the project investments. Field visits were
conducted to collect data on the situation before and after the project investments were
operational, meeting with several stakeholders. Ten of the 12 sub-projects in C1 and a
representative sub-project financed under C3 were considered for the assessment.
13.     The financial assessment confirmed that the reduced expected losses due to natural
hazards is contributing significantly to improve the livelihood of the poor in the project areas
as losses are reduced including agricultural and livestock production, as well as their family
household asset. The financial analysis focused on the beneficiaries’ income, and how by
reducing the expected losses, the project improves poor families’ expected income. Crop and
livestock activity budgets and farm models were developed for quantifying these effects
before and after the project investments based on average yields, costs of production and
existing cropping patterns. The expected reduction of lost assets for each area was introduced
in the household budget models for both scenarios.
14.    The economic analysis considered costs and benefits from the country’s perspective.
Costs and benefits were valued at market prices in most of the cases because there are very
few significant market distortions in agricultural prices and production costs in Vietnam.
Shadow pricing conversion factors (CFs) were used only for the project investments, and for
the family labor costs used for agricultural activities. These adjustments account for an
average 10 percent of taxes included in investments in the first case, and for the low
opportunity cost of rural labor in the second. Rural labor is provided mainly from the family
household members which usually has very few employment opportunities. CF of 0.9 for
                                              39
investments, and 0.8 for labor were used for the economic analysis. Table 1 summarizes the
financial and economic results for the selected C1 and C3 sub-project investments. The
financial results represent the impact of investments in terms of the expected value of the
average annual net income of benefited farmers and expressed as a percentage increase in
their family income. As an economic impact indicator, the ERR expected from the analyzed
sub-project investments was estimated considering the aggregate most direct benefits attained
at the respective affected areas.
        Table 1 Economic and Financial results of representative project investments
                                                      Financial Results (in Million VND/year)               Economic
                  Sub-projects                        Expected Value of Beneficiary’s Income                 Results
                                                        Before         After         Increase               ERR (%)
                                                        Project       Project          (%)
     C1: Cau Khai Drainage System                        19.0           21.1           11.1                     21.6
     C1: Vuc Mau Reservoir Rehabilitation                14.2           17.4           22.5                     16.2
     C1: Hai Lang Flood Protection                       23.5           26.4           12.3                     19.7
     C1: Ba Tri Sea Dyke                                 57.5           63.9           11.1                     15.8
     C1: Hong Ngu Dyke Rehabilitation                    25.7           28.6           11.3                      6.1
     C1: Cua Sot Port Storm Sheltering                    n/a            n/a            n/a                     40.6
     C1: Cua Giannh Port Storm Sheltering                 n/a            n/a            n/a                     44.8
     C1: Phu Hai Port Storm Sheltering                    n/a            n/a            n/a                     40.1
     C1: An Hoa Port Storm Sheltering                     n/a            n/a            n/a                     33.3
     C1: My A Port Storm Sheltering                       n/a            n/a            n/a                     12.1
     C1: Mekong Delta Warning System                      n/a            n/a            n/a                     32.7
     C3: Typical Water Resources Subproj.                12.8           18.6           45.3                     26.7
             Overall Project Result                                                                             25.1

15.    Crop models for the relevant crops and activity models for livestock activities
(cow/buffalo, pigs and poultry production) in each of the area showed net revenues both
before and after NDRMP scenarios. As the expected percentages and value of lost production
due to expected natural hazards is reduced after the project, expected net revenues increase
providing net benefit that is being attained through each of the relevant agricultural activities.

16.    Tables 1 and 2 in Appendix 1 (file EconAn_ICR.xls) illustrate the wet season
(summer-autumn) and dry season (winter-spring) rice crop models as an example of what was
done for all relevant activities for the assessed project areas. Rice production is the most
important economic activity in most of the affected areas. Table 2 below shows the results
from the modeling of summer-autumn rice in Cau Khai. Market prices at the farm level for
2013 were used for products, inputs and labor in both scenarios. The “without project”
columns show the situation before the project assuming that the situation would remain
unchanged if the project would not be implemented, and the “with project” columns show the
average results being expected under the completed project improvements. 10.




10
   FARMOD software was used for the assessment, which included crop and activity budgets, farm models, sub-project
results and the overall project.
                                                       40
Rice CAUKHAI (Summer Autum) Crop Model                                    Table 2

FINANCIAL BUDGET                      Existing
(In VND '000 Per ha)                 Technology     New Technology
                                       1 to 30     1      2     3 to 30
   Revenue                              39,690    39,690   41,580   43,470
   Input costs
      Plow ing                           3,000     3,000    3,000    3,000
      Seed (Rice)                        3,000     3,000    3,000    3,000
      Urea                               1,750     1,750    1,750    1,750
      NPK                                1,210     1,210    1,210    1,210
      DAP                                1,176     1,176    1,176    1,176
      Kali (K)                           1,300     1,300    1,300    1,300
      Nutrilite                          1,200     1,200    1,200    1,200
      Pesticides                           400       400      400      400
      Herbicides                           240       240      240      240
      Other Costs                          600       600      600      600
   Sub-total Input costs                13,876    13,876   13,876   13,876
   Incom e (Before Labor Costs)         25,814    25,814   27,704   29,594
   Sub-total Labor costs                14,100    14,100   14,100   14,100
   Incom e (After Labor Costs)          11,714    11,714   13,604   15,494



YIELDS AND INPUTS                              Existing
(Per ha)                                     Technology      New Technology
                                        Unit    1 to 30     1      2     3 to 30
Yields                                  Ton          6.3      6.3    6.6      6.9
Operating
    Inputs
       Plow ing                       lumpsum      3,000    3,000    3,000   3,000
       Seed (Rice)                       kg          200      200      200     200
       Urea                              kg          250      250      250     250
       NPK                               kg          110      110      110     110
       DAP                               kg          120      120      120     120
       Kali (K)                          kg          130      130      130     130
       Nutrilite                         kg        1,200    1,200    1,200   1,200
       Pesticides                     lumpsum        400      400      400     400
       Herbicides                     lumpsum        240      240      240     240
       Other Costs                    lumpsum        600      600      600     600
    Labor
       Bank Repairing                 pers/day        7        7        7       7
       Planting                       pers/day       39       39       39      39
       Fertilization                  pers/day        6        6        6       6
       Spraying                       pers/day        6        6        6       6
       Harvesting & bunching          pers/day       62       62       62      62
       Threshing                      pers/day       20       20       20      20
       Drying & Other Post=harvest    pers/day       17       17       17      17
       Other Activities               pers/day       20       20       20      20


17.     The changes in family benefits appear mainly due to higher expected yields as
production losses are reduced after the project investments, while production costs remain
constant. For example, rice in the wet season in the sub-project area in Cau Khai shows a 9
percent annual expected loss due to natural hazards which results to an average yield of 6.3
MT/ha without the project. With the reduced risk of floods the expected loss are now reduced
to 3 percent with the project structures in place. Consequently, the expected yield became 6.9
                                                      41
MT/ha. Due to the expected loss reduction in rice yield, the expected net income per hectare
in the summer autumn season would be increased from VND 11.7 million to VND 15.5
million (32 percent increase). Similar models were built for production activities in the
different areas. All models represent average conditions for the crop or livestock activity in
the respective sub-project area.
18.     The expected reduced losses of production were quantified considering the expected
higher average crop yields and net revenue values as shown in Table 1. These models were
the basis for estimating the financial and economic benefits of the project interventions on the
farming activities which is the livelihood basis for most benefited families. Average net
incomes per crop/activity increased by 15–50 percent as a result of the combined effect of
reduced production losses with same production costs. The data for all sub-projects used for
the models were collected by the World Bank’s local consultant 11 and were incorporated into
the analysis.
19.    Farm models combining typical cropping patterns and livestock activities for each of
the analyzed sub-project areas were also prepared, representing typical rural household
systems. These models measure the financial impact of the project on representative benefited
households. Primary sources of income, production costs, off-farm employment, and on-farm
consumption, were used to estimate the expected impact of the project on beneficiary’s
incomes (see detailed household budgets in Appendix 1, Tables 3 to 9). The summary Table 3
below presents the financial results for the 7 affected households in the assessed sub-project
areas.
          Table 3 Farm models: estimated income increases (in ‘000 VND/farm)
                                              Farmers net income
        Typical farm models in                                          Income     Income
                                              Without         With
        Targeted Central VN areas                                       increase   increase
                                              project         project
                                                                        in VND     in %
        C1 - Cau Khai area household            18,992         21,139      2,147       11.3
        C1 - Vuc Mau area household             14,242         17,437      3,195       22.4
        C1 - Hai Lang area household            23,534         26,476      2,942       12.5
        C1 - Ba Tri area household              57,502         63,856      6,354       11.1
        C1 - Hong Ngu area household            25,750         28,675      2,925       11.3
        C3 – Ha Tin area household              12,843         18,648      5,805       45.2

20.    Table 3 shows that the project improvements allowed for increases in household
income of about 11 to 45 percent depending on the benefitted area and type of works
implemented. Household model budgets confirmed that the financial impact of the project
interventions had a significant effect on the poor beneficiary’s income. The estimations are
based on the crop and activity models representing the main agricultural activities in each area
and on expected value of assets lost derived from the flood maps for the previous and current
scenarios.
C1 Sub-projects Results
21.    The Cau Khai Drainage System Sub-project could not provide sufficient drainage
capacity to the served area, so about 1,000ha of rice was flooded every year as well as houses,


11
     NDRMP ICR Efficiency Assessment Main Report, Nguyen Cao Don, November 2013.
                                                         42
roads, school and health facilities. Production improvements including fishery and industries
in the area were not undertaken as prevailing conditions were too risky. NDRMP invested
VND 102 billion through C1 and about VND 10.4 billion under C2 to reduce the risks of
losses from natural hazards. The project upgraded existing key protection and drainage
infrastructure in these vulnerable areas showing high poverty rates. Loss reductions due to
natural hazards as project works reduce risks are contributing to improve the livelihood of the
poor since recurrent losses included food crops, livestock production, and several family
assets. As a result, agricultural losses were reduced by an expected value of VND 26.4 billion
per year, and other losses by VND 2.4 billion (see details in Table 11 in Appendix 1). The
ERR of the investment in reconstructing the Cau Khai drainage system was estimated at 21.6
percent, and the Net Present Value (NPV) at VND 73.1 billion (using 12 percent as discount
rate).
22.      The Vuc Mau reservoir upgrading sub-project. The reservoir was constructed in
1978-1986 on Hoang Mai River with an irrigation capacity for 4,690 ha from 14 communes
with highly levels of poverty. It supplies water to Hoang Mai cement plants and about 11.4
Million Cubic Meters (MCM) per year as water for domestic use to communities in the area.
The project allowed for up-grading the reservoir structure, with a significant reduction of
flood risks during the wet season and providing for sufficient water in the reservoir for
irrigating more than 2,000 ha of rice during the dry season. Expected agricultural productivity
and production increased, allowing for better livelihood conditions in the area. There are
increasing additional benefits derived from industrial and domestic water supply as well as
from aquaculture activities. The ERR of the VND 134.3 billion invested under C1 was
estimated at 16.2 percent and the NPV at VND 43.1 billion (see details in Table 12 in
Appendix 1).
23.     The Hai Lang Drainage Improvement Sub-project benefitted 12 communes in the
lowlands in Hai Lang district, downstream of O Lau, Thac Ma, O Khe and Tan Vinh Dinh
rivers. The target was to prevent and minimize the impact of hazards in human life, public and
private assets and infrastructure, livelihoods, sustainability of the natural resource base and
the environment in the area. Improvement of the socio-economic conditions and structures are
now inducing development into the region as enhanced conditions protect production,
increase land use intensity and contributes to environmental protection. Investment brought
huge benefits to the local people, minimizing damages on more than five thousands hectares
of rice in both seasons, and minimizing losses and damages on assets during the flood season.
The dyke is now 80 cm higher than the older one, preventing from early floods when people
have not yet harvested their rice. In addition, aquaculture has expanded to nearly 300 hectares
on the 12 communes in the area. Flood warning system operates well, supplying full
information to the local people and authorities at all levels to respond timely, actively prevent
and fight floods, and to provide effective solutions to minimize losses and damages on people
and assets. The ERR of the VND 195.4 billion invested under C1 and C2 was estimated at
19.7 percent and the NPV at VND 125.8 billion (see details in Table 13 in Appendix 1).
24.      The Ba Tri sea dike Sub-project area has an economic structure which is rather rich
and diversified. Production activities with economic importance in the region are: agriculture
(rice, vegetables and crops, fruit trees, cows, pigs, goats, chickens, etc.), fishery (sea crayfish,
oyster, fish in pond, etc.), forestry, industry (buying and processing facilities, fishing port,
etc.), and several home craft services (small business activities, market, small scale industry
facilities: saplings stations, seed, foodstuff for shrimp, etc.). Prawn farming has grown in most
                                                  43
communes in the project area, but due to weather conditions (salinity, tides, rains, etc.),
frequent losses and unstable productivity resulted in high poverty levels. With the project
works increased safety for the people and for thousands of hectares of rice and aquaculture,
salinity intrusion affecting the rice, crops and aquaculture diminished, and increased private
investments followed. The dike construction also facilitated traffic circulation in the area,
ensuring cheaper connections in the area. The ERR of the VND 196.4 billion invested under
C1 and C2 was estimated at 15.8 percent and the NPV at VND 54.7 billion (see Table 14 in
Appendix 1).
25.     The Hong Ngu Protection Dyke Sub-project in Hong Ngu district is located in the
northern province of Dong Thap, being riverhead district of the Tien River. The area was
suffering from heavy damages due to frequent natural disasters, mainly by floods during the
wet season and droughts in the dry season. During the flood season with water strongly
running from upstream, landslides usually occurred in many local communes (Long Khanh A,
Long Thuan, Phu Thuan A, Phu Thuan B and Thuong Lac, Hong Ngu town). Every year, the
affected area was increasing, and more people had to move often to safer places. Damages
were estimated at billions of dongs. The project invested VND 244.5 billion (80 percent under
C1 and the rest under C2) and now risks from natural hazards are reduced significantly. The
ERR of the VND 255 billion invested under C1 and C2 was estimated at 6.1 percent and the
NPV at VND - 89.7 billion (see details in Table 15 in Appendix 1).
26.     The five sub-projects on safe port storm shelters. Before the construction of the safe
port shelters, fishermen had to go through long distances for finding protection from storms.
Boats gather along the small rivers for safe shelters. Massive damage to boats and fishing gear
were common in every rainy season. With the C1 sub-projects, accessible safe places for
docking boats minimize human and facilities losses when storms hit. The new shelters also
provide logistic services for fishing boats as they are well equipped with modern radio
communication systems to inform about storms and contact with the boats on time for seeking
for storm shelters. The five sea port safe shelter sub-projects implemented under C1, and the
number of ships being protected by these shelters are detailed in Table 3:
                    Table 3 Safe Sea Port Shelters constructed under C1
                                  Number of storm shelter ship as
     Name of Sub-project                                                 Beneficiary province
                                    per project (ship 300CV)
Cua Sot Safe Harbour                             300                         Quang Tri
Cua Gianh Safe Harbour                           800                        Quang Binh
Phu Hai Safe Harbour                             570                       Thaa Thien Hue
An Hoa Safe Harbour                             1200                        Quang Nam
My A Safe Harbour                                400                        Quang Ngai
27.     These facilities are very practical and highly effective in preventing storms damages
for the fishery boats and constitute a central prerequisite for the development of fisheries
logistic services. Fisheries business now have a more adequate infrastructure, electricity,
water, transportation and other logistics services for their activity, and fishing boats have less
risks related to storms, saving time and travel costs, increasing productivity and income from
their business. The level of risk affecting their activities, including processing and service
providers in general was considerably reduced which is stimulating the development of the
sector and supporting industries, creating more jobs and opportunities for the local
communities. Table 4 shows the aggregate result of the VND 276 billion investment on the
                                               44
five sea port shelters constructed under C1. The ERR was estimated at 33 percent and the
NPV at VND 543 billion.
Table 4 Port Storm Shelter Subprojects
ECONOMIC BUDGET (AGGREGATED)                                           Without
(In VND Billion)                                                       Project                With Project
                                                                       1 to 30    1       2        3         4       5       6 to 30
Main Production
   Fish                                                                 3,234.0 3,234.0 3,234.0 3,234.0 3,234.0 3,234.0 3,234.0
 Production Cost
   Investm ent
      Investment into natural disaster mitigation and prevention (C1         -   154.3   116.1       6.2         -       -         -
   Operating
      Purchased Inputs
         Losses in Human Lives                                              1.1     1.1     1.0     0.7     0.3     0.1     0.0
         Losses in Fishing Boats (30 - 300 CV)                             28.0    28.0    25.8    19.0     9.0     2.2     0.0
         Losses in Fishing Boats (> 300 CV)                                18.0    18.0    16.5    12.3     5.7     1.5     0.0
         Operation & Maintenance of Structures                                -       -     0.5     2.0     4.1     5.6     6.1
         Fishing Operational Costs                                      1,810.0 1,810.0 1,810.0 1,810.0 1,810.0 1,810.0 1,810.0
         Savings in Fuel to Reach Shelters                                136.5   136.5   128.9   105.9    71.5    48.6    41.0
      Sub-Total Purchased Inputs                                        1,993.6 1,993.6 1,982.6 1,949.9 1,900.7 1,868.0 1,857.1
      Labor
         Labor                                                            728.4   728.4   728.4   728.4   728.4   728.4   728.4
   Sub-total Operating Costs                                            2,722.0 2,722.0 2,711.0 2,678.3 2,629.1 2,596.4 2,585.5
 Sub-Total Production Cost                                              2,722.0 2,876.2 2,827.1 2,684.6 2,629.1 2,596.4 2,585.5
   OUTFLOWS                                                             2,722.0 2,876.2 2,827.1 2,684.6 2,629.1 2,596.4 2,585.5
 Cash Flow                                                                512.0   357.8   406.9   549.4   604.9   637.6   648.6
_________________________________
IRR = 33.0%, NPV = 543.05

28.      Cua Sot Safe Harbor Sub-project invested VND 35.8 billion generating annual
savings in fuel from boats seeking for protection when early warning systems announce
hazard events. In addition, the reduction of damaged fishing boats and gears is estimated at
about VND 25.2 billion per year. The resulting ERR is 40.6 percent and the NPV VND 106
billion.
29.      Cua Gianh Port storm shelter had a cost of VND 68 billion. Before this shelter was
constructed, an average of 14 fishing boats of 30 – 300 CV and 6 bigger boats of more than
300 CV were lost per year due to storms. In addition about 10 human lives were also lost. As
these loses are now avoided completely, the value of benefits (or avoided losses) was
estimated at 47 billion per year. The resulting ERR is 44.8 percent and the NPV VND 212
billion.
30.     Phu Hai Port for stormproof and storm shelter harbors 30-40 big vessels of 200-
500CV and 200 small vessels of 20-250CV. Before the project shelter people have to use
subsidiary machines to push the vessel in. This machine costs an average of about 30-50
million. As the storm came, the machine had to be brought to the bank, sank boat ashore and
then salvaged. Salvage cost of about 6 to10 working wages and about 1.5 million. After the
project invested VND 31.4 billion, fishermen do not take too much effort to ensure the safety
of ships and about VND 19 billion are saved in fuel by ships seeking for shelter. The resulting
ERR is 40.1 percent and the NPV VND 81.9 billion.
31.     An Hoa Safe harbor Sub-project moored regularly about 500-700 vessels, with a
capacity of 20- 400CV. The harbor had no power system as well as managing house and
specific operational procedures. With the project about VND 78.9 billion were invested and


                                                                        45
annual savings in fuel for seeking protection and reductions on damages were estimated at
about VND 35 billion. The resulting ERR is 33.3 percent and the NPV VND 142 billion.
32.     My A Port for stormproof and storm shelter established a safe place for docking boats
during storms, minimizing human losses and damaged assets and facilities for the fishermen.
The shelter also is a provider of logistic services for fishing, so it is possible to save time,
travel costs, increase productivity and efficiency of fishing operations. The level of risk for
fishing, processing, and other service providers has been lowered significantly. The new
situation is stimulating the development of fisheries, increasing the scale of the activity and
related industries. Funding for operation and maintenance is covered by the provincial budget.
After the project invested VND 89 billion, safety of ships was ensured and VND 12.6 billion
is saved in fuel for seeking shelter. If only saved fuel is considered as benefit, the resulting
ERR is 10.9 percent and the NPV VND - 7 billion with 12 percent of discount rate.
C3 investments
33.     C3 benefits are more difficult to quantify. Table 5 show the type of sub-projects
financed under C3. In large part, C3 benefits reflect the considerable financing gap that exists
for post-disaster reconstruction activities in Vietnam, even of basic public infrastructure,
implying considerable needs, combined with measures to allocate the scarce available funds
as effectively as possible to meet the most urgent reconstruction needs.
                   Table 5: List of Component 3 Sub-project, per type of sub-project

                                                       Sub-project in provinces
Type of Works              Quang          Da       Thien Quang Ha Nghe                  Thanh      Ninh
                                                                                                           Total
                            Nam          Nang       Hue     Binh Tinh        An          Hoa       Binh
Schools                      17           16         6        3        -      -           6          5       53
Health Stations               8            2         7        3        -      -           -          -       20
Roads & Bridges              23            -         3        2        4      5           1          4       42
Irrigation works             19            1         4        2        5      2           8          8       49
Sea Dykes                     -            1         -        -        -      -           -          -       1
Total                        67           20        20       10        9      7          15         17      165
       Source: Progress report for the 1st Quarter of 2010, Service of consultancy, supervision and activities
                 supporting reconstruction. Post-disaster (Component 3), MONACO Company.

34.     For instance, the C3 road and bridge sub-projects which were 25 percent of the C3
schemes focused on reconstruction of rural networks, restoring motorized access of affected
communes to neighboring ones and to the wider road network. C3 school reconstruction sub-
projects representing 32 percent of the schemes financed under C3 enabled students to return
to purpose-built school buildings within their own communities and a likely return to a higher
quality of education, in some cases via a return to reduced class size or longer school days. In
a number of cases, school reconstruction also included the enlargement of buildings to include
additional classrooms, supporting a permanent switch from half-day to full-day schooling, in
line with GOV education policy. Measures have also been taken to strengthen the resilience of
structures supported under C3 against future hazards, with longer term social, economic and
public finance benefits as well.
35.   Irrigation-related sub-projects entailed a mixture of dams, dykes, reservoirs, weirs
and pumping stations. For this group of sub-projects representing 30 percent of financed
                                             46
schemes, quantifying benefits is less difficult. Restoration of irrigation facilities under C3
supported agricultural livelihoods and, in some cases, they combined irrigation with flood
protection or with water supply benefits. For example, a VND 850 million sub-project to
repair a pumping station in Quang Nam brought the restoration of irrigation water to 300 ha of
agricultural land. Prior to its repair, farmers had to leave fields fallow during the dry summer-
autumn season, resulting in an annual estimated loss in earnings of VND 8.0 billion.
36.     A typical water resources sub-project financed under C3 was assessed during the ICR
mission visits to the benefitted areas. The sub-project involved the reconstruction of the Lang
Dam in Ha Tin Province, a diversion dam broken by a 2010 storm. Irrigation to 575 small
farms irrigating 115 ha was restored and the recharge of downstream aquifers was also
enhanced. Typical farmers in the area increased their annual family income from VND 12.8
billion to VND 18.6 billion, a 45 percent increase. C3 invested VND 10.35 billon allowed an
aggregate increase in net economic benefits of the irrigation small farmers of about VND 2.9
billion per year. The ERR of the investment was estimated at 26.7 percent and the NPV at
VND 10.8 billon.
37.     An independent M&E consultant completed two C3 M&E reviews, based on a desk-
based review of documents and field visits to the eight provinces that have received C3
funding, including a random check of completed sub-projects. The reports covered progress in
preparing and executing physical works and in disbursing funding, the quality of physical
works, the compliance with the C3 Operations Manual and with Bank safeguards
requirements, and an impact assessment. The report concluded that C3 had had “a great
effect”. it also found that the capacity of individual PMUs played an important role in
determining overall performance.
38.     The US$75.0 million AF credit for C3 post-disaster reconstruction was assigned to 12
central coastal and highland provinces which were hit hard by storms and floods in 2009,
2010 and 2012, including Ketsana in 2009 and Mirinae in 2010, and the 3 provinces in the
Mekong Delta that suffered from severe floods in 2011. The allocation to the 15 provinces
were based on same criteria of (a) damage assessment; (b) fiscal capacity of the province; and
(c) other sources of support allocated from the national Government in response to disaster
response. The AF sub-projects followed the same pattern being applied under the C3 sub-
projects in terms of type of sub-projects and benefits generated.
39.      C3 has made clear progress in meeting its two overarching objectives, namely to help
address the GOV’s recurrent post-disaster reconstruction financing gap, supporting more rapid
post-disaster reconstruction; and to strengthen GOV’s speed and efficiency in the allocation
and disbursement of post-disaster resources and enhance effectiveness of use. According to
the provinces all completed sub-projects that were funded by both the NDRMP C3 and AF
stood and operated well during the recent storms and flooding. In particular, many schools
were used as a safety shelter in the communities. In terms of sectorial distribution, the largest
share of funding was used for roads, bridges and related drainage (36 percent of C3 budget),
followed by irrigation-related infrastructure (26 percent), schools (25 percent, including a
vocational center as well as kindergartens and primary and secondary schools) and health care
facilities (8 percent).
40.    The overall economic analysis show that the aggregate NDRMP investments are
having an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of about 25 percent. The economic analysis
considered costs and benefits from the country’s perspective valued at market prices in most
                                               47
of the cases because there are few market distortions in agricultural prices and production
costs in Vietnam. The aggregate economic impact considered the expected ERR from the
most C1 sub-projects and a representative case for the C3 analyzed sub-project investments.
C2 and C4 costs were also included in the analysis since they contributed to the efficiency of
the overall investment.




                                             48
Annex 4. Resettlement Impacts


                                          Actual Resettlement Impacts Relative to Plan

                                                                     Affected people         Total resettlement costs
                         Province                                    (No. of persons)                 (US$)
                                                                   Planned        Actual    Planned           Actual
Thanh Hoa                                                           386             404      125,124.70        303,909.42
Nghe An                                                             253             282      156,749.35        162,437.01
Ha Tinh                                                              2                  3       3,076.28         3,076.28
Quang Binh                                                           33             49       138,535.48        162,051.25
Quang Tri                                                           1,223          1,313     179,148.81        179,148.81
Thua Thien Hue                                                       8                  8     12,275.57         12,275.57
Quang Nam                                                           124             126      117,916.32        197,509.42
Quang Ngai                                                           12             12       238,431.41        243,175.24
Ben Tre                                                             390             755     2,739,227.94     2,949,374.05
Dong Thap                                                           750            1,194    3,597,501.37     3,867,588.34
Installation of early warning system in Mekong Delta                296                 9    107,262.45        129,809.83
Improvement of drainage system along Hanoi-HCM railway              167             13        13,209.82         13,209.82
                           Total                                    3644           4168      7,428,459.5     8,223,565.04




                                                              49
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                                  Responsibility/
         Names                               Title                   Unit
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
 Laurent Msellati        Task Team Leader                           EASRD     Task Team Leader (1)
 Cuong Hung Pham         Sr. Operations Officer                     EASRD     Co-TTL (1)
 Yuka Makino             Natural Resources Management Specialist    SASES
 Soren Baunsgaard        Economist                                  EACVF     Economics
 Idah Z. Pswarayi-       Lead Natural Resources Management          EASRD     Natural Resources and
 Riddihough              Specialist                                           DRM
 Lars Lund               Sr. Social Scientist                       EASES Social
 Hoa Thi Mong Pham       Resettlement Specialist                    EASES Resettlement
 Nina Bhatt              Social Scientist                           EASES Social
 Phillip Brylski         Lead Environment Specialist                EASES Environment
 Vinh Quoc Duong         Environment Specialist                     EASES Environment
 Thang Nguyen Chien      Procurement Specialist                     EAPCO Procurement
 Thong Quang Tran        Financial Management Specialist            EACPO Financial Mgmt
 Hoi-Chan Nguyen         Sr. Counsel                                LEGEA Legal
 Huong Thu Vu            Program Assistant                          EACVF Administrative
 Minh Nguyet Khorami     Program Assistant                          EASRD Administrative
 Graham Shorten          Natural Disaster Specialist               Consultant DRM
 Jan Timmerman           Dam Safety Specialist                     Consultant Dam safety
 Charlotte Benson        Public Financial Management Specialist    Consultant Financial Mgmt
 Zenaida Delica          Community-based Risk Management           Consultant
                                                                              CBDRM
                         Specialist
 Wael Zakout             Lead Operations Officer                   ECSSD      Peer Reviewer
 Nico Bakker             Regional Water Resources Program           RNE       Peer Reviewer
 Margaret Arnold         Sr. Program Officer                       TUDHM      Peer Reviewer
 Hoonae Kim              Sector Manager                            EASRD      Overall management
Supervision/ICR
 Laurent Msellati        Task Team Leader                           EASRD     Task Team Leader (1)
 Severin L. Kodderitzsch Task Team Leader                           EASRD     Task Team Leader (2)
 Cuong Hung Pham         Sr. Operations Officer                     EASRD     Task Team Leader (3)
 Xiaolan Wang                                                                 Task Team Leader of
                         Sr. Operations Officer                     EASVS
                                                                              the AF (4)
 Toru Konishi            Senior Economist                           EASIN     Task Team Leader (5)
 Lan Thi Thu Nguyen      Natural Resources Economist                EASVS     Social and economics
 Thu Thi Le Nguyen       Program Assistant                          EASVS     Administrative
 Hung Viet Le            Financial Management Specialist            EASVS     Financial Mgmt
 Hisham A. Abdo Kahin    Sr. Counsel                                EASVS     Legal
 Hoa Thi Mong Pham       Senior Social Development Specialist       EASVS     Administration
 Dung Thi Thuy Dao       Program Assistant                          EASVS     Administrative
 Son Thanh Vo            Senior Rural Development Specialist        EASVS     CBDRM
 Cung Van Pham           Financial Management Specialist            EASVS     Financial Mgmt
 Quynh Xuan Thi Phan     Financial Officer                          GEFOB     Financial Mgmt
 Khanh Linh Thi Le       Program Assistant                          EASVS     Administrative
 Mai Thi Phuong Tran     Financial Management Specialist            EASVS     Financial Mgmt
 Ly Thi Dieu Vu          Sr. Environment Specialist                 EASVS     Environment


                                                     50
Tuan Anh Le               Social Specialist                        EASVS    Social
Tam Thi Do                Program Assistant                        EASVS    Administrative
Dzung Huy Nguyen          DRM Specialist                           EASVS    Co-TTL (2)
Son Van Nguyen            Environment Specialist                   EASVS    Environment
Thang Toan Le             Procurement Specialist                   EASVS    Procurement
Khang Van Pham            Environment Specialist                   EASVS    Environment
Jennifer J. Sara          Sector Manager                           EASVS    Overall management


(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD (including travel and
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                         consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                                 N/A                       N/A
FY05                                                56.59                   222,773.27
FY06                                                 N/A                       N/A
Total:                                              56.59                   222,773.27
Supervision/ICR
FY06                                                24.53                    99,344.00
FY07                                                24.54                    72,510.35
FY08                                                35.09                    85,235.49
FY09                                                42.64                   106,618.62
FY10                                                26.59                    49,610.44
FY11                                                32.97                    86,955.08
FY12                                                24.22                    52,207.78
FY13                                                16.56                    61,086.97
 FY14                                                9.8                     37,887.79
Total:                                             236.94                   651,456.52
                 Total:                            293.53                   874,229.79

N/A = Not Available.




                                                   51
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.




                                      52
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.




                                       53
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR

1.       Project context, Development Objective and Design

1.       Vietnam is one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world. Every year, the
country’s economy and population have suffered from natural disasters. Hundreds of people
die every year and the average economic loss is about 1-1.5 percent of country’s GDP per
year. To responding to these challenges, the GOV has established a system of Committees for
Flood and Storm Control at Central and sub-national levels. The system operation focuses
mostly on emergency response and relief. NDRMP was the first IDA project in Vietnam that
adopted an innovative integrated approach to DRM, which considers development planning,
preparedness, forecasting, prevention, mitigation and post-disaster recovery as well as
CBDRM. NDRMP was designed as a strategic support program and introduced to build
institutional and technical capacity of Government agencies and communities in DRM to
support the country in reducing the human, economic and financial losses from natural
hazards.

2.     Main beneficiaries of the project include Government agencies and institutions at
national and subnational levels (provincial, district and commune) and communities in 12
hazard-prone provinces of the Central and Mekong Delta regions of Vietnam. Mass
organizations, enterprises and all other international organizations and NGOs also benefited
from the project through enhanced coordination and collaboration on DRM efforts.

3.      The NDRMP's development objective (PDO) is the establishment and implementation
of a comprehensive risk management framework for natural disaster prevention, preparedness,
mitigation and recovery. The project assisted Government to achieve the following:
     •   Reducing the vulnerability to flood and storm hazards in the project areas, with two
         expected outcomes: (a) central Ministries and Provinces would implement structural
         and non-structural investments, and (b) Government would adapt its approach to
         disaster management to include CBDRM;
     •   Increasing the efficiency of post-disaster recovery and reconstruction efforts, with two
         expected outcomes: (a) Government speed and efficiency in the allocation and
         disbursement of post-disaster resources would be increased, and (b) the State
         Contingency Budget would be used efficiently to support post-disaster reconstruction
         of public infrastructure; and
     •   Strengthening capacity of national and local DRM institutions, with two expected
         outcomes: (a) Government would develop the capacity to strategically plan structural
         investments for disaster mitigation based on full technical, social, environmental and
         economic analyses, and (b) relevant provincial and central Government agencies
         would have the institutional and technical capacity for collection analysis and
         dissemination of information for risk management.

4.       Accordingly, the project’s original key performance indicators were:
     •   The number of provinces with completed Natural Disaster Mitigation Investment
         Plans;
     •   The number of feasibility studies completed for sub-projects;
     •   The number sub-projects completed; and

                                               54
     •   The number of SCPs completed.
The project included four components, as follow:
     •   Component 1: Prevention and Mitigation Investments
     •   Component 2: CBDRM
     •   Component 3: Post-Disaster Reconstruction Support
     •   Component 4: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening

5.     At approval stage, the project received a total of US$ 98 million, of which US$86
million was provided by IDA and other US$12 million was provided by the GOV. During
implementation, the project received additionally grant support from the Japanese
Government (via PHRD, JSDF) and the Royal Government of the Netherlands (via NTF) with
a fund total of about US$19 million. Government of Australia (via AusAid) also provided
technical expertise support to the project through the recruitment of a Chief Technical
Advisor, a DRM Specialist and a Hydraulic Modeling Specialist.

6.     The structure of the project components was not revised during implementation. In
June 2010, GOV and the World Bank agreed to provide an AF for post-disaster reconstruction
support (under Component 3) with an amount of US$75 million. This led the total project
budget increased to US$192 million of which US$161 million were financed from IDA,
US$12 million from GOV, and US$19 million from trust fund donors.

2.       Project implementation arrangement

7.      The project included a complex institutional arrangement for the implementation that
involves many institutions and agencies, as well as communities. In agreement with the World
Bank, the Government assigned CCFSC to be responsible for overseeing, coordination and
provision of guidance to project implementation. MARD – as the project owner – was
responsible for day-to-day management and monitor the project implementation as the whole.
MOF was fully in charge of Component 3 implementation through the established project
reporting structure. Diagram of the project implementation is presented in Figure 1.

3.       Outcomes, Effects and Impacts

3.1.     Overall achievements. In overall, the project has achieved the following main results:

8.      A National Strategy for Natural Disasters Preparedness, Prevention, Mitigation and
Recovery to 2020 (NS) has been developed and was approved by Prime Minister on
November 16, 2007. The Strategy lays out Vietnam’s primary DRM objectives, which
transform the traditional emergency response focus to a comprehensive and integrated DRM
approach. The Strategy requires an improved and reformed institutional setting at national and
subnational levels. Importantly, NS emphasizes the critical and importance of community
involvement in DRM, as well as the combination of structural and non-structural in disaster
risk reduction and investment. Accordingly, a National Action Plan for Implementation of the
National Strategy has also been formulated and was approved by Prime Minister on




                                               55
September 29, 2009 to guide the NS implementation steps and progress. The National Action
Plan has been consolidated from all 19 sectorial and 64 provincial action plans. 12
Furthermore, the project supported 17 target provinces to integrate DRM action plan into their
SEDPs. Of which 12 provinces developed their provincial-level integrated disaster
management investment plans. The National Action Plan is being implemented under the
guidance and supervision of the CCFSC. Implementation progress report is prepared every 1
and 5 years.




12
     Today, there are only 63 provinces as Ha Tay province has been merged into Hanoi Capital) since 2009.

                                                       56
9.      Institutional capacity of CCFSC and its subordinate branches at the line ministries and
sub-national levels (provincial, district and commune) have been significantly enhanced. The
Prime Minister issued the Decree No. 14/2010/NĐ-CP dated February 27, 2010 to rearrange
and strengthen institutional arrangement and coordination mechanism of CCFSC and its
ministerial and provincial branches across the country. The Decree describes in detail the
responsibilities and accountabilities of all DRM involved agencies and related institutions in
both vertical and horizontal coordination and reporting line across line ministries and different
levels. Responding to the Decree, all DRM agencies at Central and subnational levels have
been strengthened with more staffs, the necessary tools and necessary experience via
trainings. The central level Disaster Management Center (DMC), which was as a division of
the MARD’s Dyke Management and Flood and Storm Control Department (as the Standing
Office of the CCFSC), was separated and promoted as a national center for DRM from 2010
onwards. Improved capacity was noted in the response to Typhoon Nargis and Ilke (2008) and
Ketsana (2009), floods in the central region (2009, 2010) and in the Mekong Delta (2011),
and Typhoon Naris, Wutip and Hyain (2013).

10.     Physical investments under the project such as dyke systems, safe harbors for fishing
boats, reservoirs/dams, pumping station and drainage improvement etc. have been operated
well and they have significantly contributed to the reduction of disaster damages and
economic losses in target provinces. For instance, the combination of dyke and emergency
road sub-project in Hai Lang district of Quang Tri province has helped to protect 12
communes with a total population of 64,000 people and 5,200 ha of 2-crop rice. Improved
drainage system located along the Hanoi – Ho Chi Minh railway route running through 8
provinces has significantly reduced flooding situation to ensure safety of railway operations in
the wet season. Construction of five safety storm shelter harbors has helped a thousand of
fishery ships to be safer from typhoon impacts. Installation of early warning system in the
Mekong Delta improved community information access and warning from 10 percent to 90
percent; and information accuracy increased up to 85-90 percent. No damage in the protected
areas was reported during the wet season in the subsequent years after the completion of the
risk reduction investments.

11.     A total of 681 community public infrastructure (201 combined schools and safe
shelters, 56 health care center, 182 flood protection and agricultural production structures, and
242 combined emergency route and rural roads) were reconstructed under the post-disaster
reconstruction support (including Component 3 and AF). The reconstructed public
infrastructure benefited over 3 million peoples living in 15 hazard-prone provinces. In
addition to the CBDRM activities (described in the next para.), post-disaster reconstruction
support helped the Government and the community to fill funding gaps for post-disaster
recovery and provided a rapid disbursement facility to fund post-disaster reconstruction of
public infrastructure. It also enhanced the ability of local communities to actively and
promptly respond to natural disasters through supporting local people to quickly stabilize their
living conditions and rural production activities after disaster. The support contributed to raise
awareness of community in preventing and mitigating natural disasters through their
participation in prioritization of investments and planning processes.

12.    More than 210,000 villagers living in 30 communes have benefited directly from the
CBDRM model, including the Commune Safe Plans, community early warning and
evacuation systems, and community-scale mitigation measures developed by the project.

                                               57
Effective awareness raising and public information through different communication channels
given to relevant agencies and local people, especially women, poor and ethnic minorities
have reinforced the democratic planning processes carried out from commune level and have
encouraged participation. Small-scale disaster projection structures and community early
warning system have operated well and significantly reduced disaster damages in 30 target
communes. Community supervision of construction and O&M of infrastructure were carried
out to ensure their sustained quality and increase local awareness of their ownership rights
over the investments. As the results, the CBDRM model with participatory approach has been
rolled out nationwide via the National Program for CBDRM, which was approved in 2009 and
launched in 2010.

13.    The project has also helped to leverage support from many donors to strengthen DRM
capacity in Vietnam. Efforts include improved coordination and information-sharing network
between the Government, donors such as ECHO, UNDP, RNE, Embassy of Luxembourg, the
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), AusAID, and international NGOs such
as CARE International, OXFAM GB, OXFAM HK, World Vision, and ADPC, etc.

14.     Learning the successes and experiences from the NDRMP, a follow-up project
Vietnam – Managing Natural Hazards (VN-Haz) has been formulated in agreement between
the GOV and the World Bank. VN-Haz project will continue to build capacity of institutions
and communities on DRM to ensure the successful transition from traditional emergency
response and relief to integrated DRM approach. VN-Haz will focus on ten hazard-prone
provinces in the Central Region and promote the river basin approach to guide priority
structural and non-structural investments at different levels. Hydro-met services and early
warning systems will also be upgraded and strengthened through this follow-on project. The
project has been initially implemented in a satisfactory manner.

3.2.   Achievements by Components
Component 1: Prevention and Mitigation Investments
15.      A total of 17 sub-projects were identified based on risk and cost-benefit analysis. The
identification was done in close consultation with responsible GOV agencies at the national
and provincial levels and the World Bank. In the following, 17 feasibility studies were
successfully undertaken and finally approved by the Government. Through the identification
of sub-projects and preparation of feasibility studies, a comprehensive of skills and
experiences of responsible Government agencies, including technical and academic
institutions, and state management departments, were built in hydrological and hydraulic
modeling, technical design, risk and cost-benefit analysis, and social and environmental
impacts assessment, etc. Improved capacity helped these institutions better in preparing the
Government’s and other donors’ funded projects in the future.

16.    11 disaster reduction structures were successfully rehabilitated in the Central and
Mekong Delta provinces. These structures have well operated with no negative social and
environmental impacts. According to the provincial reports, these structures have significantly
reduced damages caused by disasters in the protected areas in the recent years.

17.    89 hydromet stations, 3 building centers and a set of hydromet equipment packages
were installed in the Mekong Delta. The investment in early warning system has significantly

                                              58
improved capacity of the Southern Regional Forecast Center of MONRE on both forecasting
and early warning from 10 percent up to 90 percent. Especially, the accuracy of information
has reached up to 90 percent (see table below for details). Improved early warning system has
also improved the accessibility of information of communities up to 90 percent. Improved
early warning system helped farmers to better plan their crops and harvest, as well as to
protect their life and poverty. According to the CCFSC, the economic loss caused by disasters
in Mekong Delta in 2013 was reduced 10 percent in comparison with the previous years.
                 Evaluation of Mekong Delta Early Warning System
                              Times of occurrence
                                                                                  Forecast level




                                                               forecasting (%)
                                  per years




                                                                Percentage of
                                                                   accurate
        Type of Natural




                                                                                                                 Inaccuracy
No.




                                                                                          Un-timing
                                                                                                      Accuracy
           Disasters
                              2006

                                     2007

                                            2008

                                                        2009




                                                                                 Timing
 1    Storms                  16     12     14          14      90-95            x                    x
 2    Low-pressure
 3    Monsoon                 20     22     22          20      85-90            x                    x
 4    Flood                    5      6      5           5       80
 5    Tides
 6    Tide regime              4     3      6           6          85
 7    Salinity intrusion
 8    Drought                  3     3      4           3       85-90            x                    x
 9    Other disasters

Component 2: Community based DRM (CBDRM)
18.    A pilot phase was introduced in the most vulnerable 10 communes of Ha Tinh, Thua
Thien Hue and Ben Tre provinces with funding from JSDF. Learning from the pilot, in the
scale-up phase, the pilot was expanded to other 20 vulnerable communes of Thanh Hoa, Nghe
An, Quang Tri, Binh Thuan and Dong Thap provinces with funding support from NTF.

19.     By establishing a Commune CBDRM Committee with technical support from CFs,
CSPs were prepared for all 30 communes with proactive participation of commune peoples,
including the most vulnerable groups (i.e. women, children, elder and disable peoples).
Prioritized investments (e.g. drill exercises, school education, hazards and risks mapping, and
small-scale mitigation structures, etc.) were also determined in the CSP and implemented by
the funding support from the project. Furthermore, local authorities and communities also
worked together in integrating CSP into Commune Annual and 5-year Socio-Economic
Development Plan (SEDP). The development and implementation of both CSPs and
integrated Commune SEDPs engaged and promoted involvement of community peoples in
planning and decision processes, monitoring quality and progress of investments.

20.    In implementation of CSPs, a series of effective awareness raising activities and DRM
technical trainings to commune officials were carried out. These activities built on the various



                                                   59
needs and typical geographical situations and social conditions across communes, and were
implemented in close consultation and collaboration with local authorities and communities.

21.     In combination with the construction of small-scale mitigation structures, a commune
early warning system and a set of search and rescue equipment packages were installed and
provided to 30 communes. The commune early warning system was connected directly with
central, regional and provincial hydromet centers and the provincial SCFC. The system helped
to improve information accessibility that enhanced the emergency preparedness capacity of
commune level. At the same time, hydromet centers and provincial SCFC have been
strengthened in maintaining database system and issuing timely and accuracy warnings at the
commune level.

22.     In summary, CBDRM activities were successfully implemented. They helped to
strengthen the capacity of grass-root level in DRM. By balancing structural and non-structural
measures with community participatory approach, CBDRM helped the target communes
significantly minimize disaster risks and damages. Involvement of the communities ensured
the ownerships and sustained quality of investment, as well as increase of local awareness. At
the same time, it also promoted the partnership and collaboration between the central,
provincial and commune levels, and between the commune officials and community people.
As a result, the CBDRM model, including CSPs, commune early warning and evacuation
system, and participatory commune-scale mitigation measures, has been consolidated into a
nationwide CBDRM Program. The Program was approved by Prime Minister in 2009 and is
being smoothly implemented through Government support and donor funding.
Component 3: Post-disaster Re-construction Support
23.     The post-disaster reconstruction brought direct benefits to local people and
communities. It provided an opportunity to rebuild, reconstruct or repair the major public
infrastructures damaged by natural disasters, restore living standards and socio-economic
development. A total of 3,267,324 peoples (of which 1,487,354 women and 304,635 ethnic
minorities) living in the vulnerable communities of 15 hazards-prone provinces have benefited
from the support.

24.     Complement Component 4, post-disaster reconstruction also supported building of
capacity of Government agencies at the national and subnational levels through the
development and implementation of the guideline on Damage and Needs Assessment
(DANA) and criteria on prioritization and allocation of fund for post-disaster reconstruction.
In addition, this support also helped to develop a detailed needs assessment for the
establishment of an Emergency Management Centre (EMC). As a result, an EMC was
established in Hai Lang District of Quang Tri province. At the national level, a department
level Disaster Management Centre (DMC) was established within MARD in early 2010.

25.      A total of 681 commune public infrastructures, of which 201 combined schools and
safety shelters, 56 health centers, 242 combined rural roads and emergency routes, and 182
irrigation schemes, were reconstructed in 15 provinces. According to the provincial reports,
most reconstructed public infrastructures operated well and withstood the recent storms and
subsequent floods in 2013. In addition, those structures virtually caused no negative impact on
the local population and had positive impacts on enhancing the daily living standards of local


                                              60
people by improving travelling conditions, medical care, learning conditions and irrigation
conditions for agricultural production.

26.     Beside the success on filling the funding gaps for post-disaster reconstruction as the
first objective, the AF did not achieve its second objective on improving the speed and
efficiency of post-disaster reconstruction activities through improvement of the management
and effective use of resources for post-disaster recovery. Since the implementation of the
original credit NDRMP to completion of the AF, post-disaster reconstruction activities had
gone through five funding allocation cycles (2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012). Despite the
urgency of post-disaster recovery, the current legal framework and administration procedures
do not provide a separate process for the post-disaster reconstruction works. Consequently,
the average duration to perform the funding allocation for each cycle took from 8 to 14
months before reconstruction works start. At the closing date of the AF, a review of the
existing procedures was carried out. Recommendations including a proposal for a new
mechanism were made shared with MPI, MOF and MARD, as well as the provinces to
consider revising existing laws and regulations.
Component 4: Project management and institution strengthening

27.     Component 4 focused on two objectives, as follows: (i) to develop the         practical and
effective project management and implementation, given local context and              management
structures, and (ii) to enhance the institution of the authorities to ensure better   cross-agency
coordination at different levels in terms of their responsibilities in disaster        the control,
prevention, as well as responding and supporting recovery.

28.     A series of training related to project management and implementation, such as
financial management, procurement, safeguard policies and M&E, etc. was provides to all
project staffs at the national, provincial, district and communes levels. Operation manuals for
the project and its specific components (e.g. CBDRM and Post-disaster reconstruction) were
frequently reviewed and revised based on needs. Trainings on using the manuals were also
provided to all project staffs. A total of 989 project staffs at all levels benefited from these
trainings. In addition, this Component helped to transfer international experiences through the
engagement of international experts with various types of expertise to support project
implementation. Improved project implementation reflected the enhanced capacity of project
staffs. This enhanced capacity is now being continuously used in the implementation of the
follow-up VN-Haz project.

29.      This Component provided numerous capacity building activities (on-job trainings,
class trainings, study tours, workshops and conferences) to Government officials in the area of
DRM. The Component helped to build capacity of Government officials in areas of: (i)
identification of risks, including establishment of geodetic reference system, acquisition of
satellite imagery, and air photography, (ii) risk analysis, including upgrading existing
equipment of national geographic information system (GIS), digital model, risk mapping and
modelling, and (iii) risk management, including planning, forecasting and early warning
systems, public awareness raising, etc.

30.    Along with building-capacity of Government officials, the Component helped to
formulate a strategic legal framework for DRM that allows the country to move from the

                                               61
traditional focus on emergency response and relief to an integrated DRM approach. On
November 16, 2007, Prime Minister approved the National Strategy, and in 2009 the National
Action Plan to guide the implementation steps and progress of the Strategy. The project
supported 17 target provinces to develop their Integrated Disaster Risk Management Action
Plan (IDRMAP) and integrate them into provincial SEDPs. Following the success of the
provincial IDRMAP in 17 project target provinces, all other 47 provinces across the country
and 19 ministries developed their own action plan under Government’s funding. Both the
National Action Plan and ministerial and provincial IDRMAPs are being maintained and
implemented under the guidance and supervision of the CCFSC. Implementation progress
reports are prepared every 1 and 5 years.

4.     Key Factors Effecting Implementation and Outcomes
Project preparation and design
31.      The project, particularly CBDRM component, relied heavily on the availability of trust
funds. NTF had committed to provide a grant support of about US$8.5 million for CBDRM
activities. Unfortunately, due to internal financial reasons, NTF decided to cut off the amount
of US$2 million. This led to a limited expansion of the CBDRM to 20 communes, instead of
30 communes as originally planned.
Project implementation
32.    Government’s readiness for project implementation. The innovation and complexity of
the project design required a complex institutional setting and multi-agencies coordination
mechanism at the national and subnational levels. Furthermore, it also required sufficient
technical and project management skills from the project management units to enable the
implementation progress. Although most start-up conditions were completed theoretically,
capacity of project management units, including staffs and technical skills for necessary areas
(e.g. DRM, procurement, FM, safeguards, M&E) had not been fully in place at project start.
In the first half of the project span, the Government struggled in settling down its project
management structure and building capacity of PMUs at the national and subnational levels.
This led to the slow progress and it was rated as unsatisfactory by the World Bank until the
MTR mission.

33.     Lack of cooperation and coordination between the central Ministries and between the
central and provincial units. The project components and activities were implemented and
monitored by several ministries. For instance, MARD was responsible for the project as the
whole and some specific components, MOF was in charge of implementation of the post-
disaster reconstruction support and the AF, MONRE was responsible for hydromet sub-
project and MOT was responsible for the railway sub-project. A similar set up was also
established at the provincial level. The lack of clearly defined coordination and reporting line
across the ministries and various levels caused delay in the first half of the project
implementation in addition to the limited capacity of the project management units.

34.    In response, actions were taken by the CCFSC and MARD to clarify management
responsibilities and streamline the implementation procedures. It included:
    • Clarifying the responsibilities and reporting line of the CPO/CPMO, involving
       agencies at MARD (e.g. DDMFSC), the PCU and PPMUs in managing, monitoring
       and processing implementation and procurement plans.

                                              62
     •   Resolving bottlenecks in project management, such as procurement processes for
         design and construction contracts for planned civil works, limitation of CPMO and
         PPMUs staffs, and lack of experience in procurement processes, FM, M&E and
         safeguards, as well as acceleration of the process for allocating counterpart funds for
         resettlement and site clearance.
     •   Improving the effectiveness and speeding-up implementation of Component 4 –
         Project Management and Institutional Strengthening.

35.    From the MTR (February 2008) onwards, project progress improved considerably and
the annual disbursement has matched or exceeded expected annual amounts.

36.     Additionally, a few additional difficulties caused numerous extensions of the original
credit’s closing date by a total of 23 months and 28 days. For example, the recurrent bad
weather and frequent unpredictable storms affected the construction of a number of sub-
projects, particularly those exposed to the sea, under Component 1. Complexity in
procurement of hydromet sub-project, and falling exchange value between SDRs, US$ and
VND made it difficult to plan final activities.

5.       Key lessons learnt

37.      Strong coordination and ownership. In order to implement an innovative and
comprehensive DRM project program, it is needed to set up a well-coordinated and simple
organizational structure. The project clearly shows that smooth implementation can only be
achieved when: (a) coordinating agency plays an active role of leadership, emphasizing the
bottom-up approach with the participation of all involving agencies, b) there are good
directions and coordination mechanisms between authorities and agencies at all levels, and c)
adequately-trained and committed staff is available from the beginning of project
implementation. In the first half of the project course, the implementation arrangements failed
to establish a necessary degree of coordination required to guide and channel the project’s
efforts towards achieving its goals.

38.     Community participation. It is important to note that the active participation of local
communities in project implementation, particularly in the CBDRM activities and post-
disaster reconstruction, ensured successful project implementation and reinforced the
participatory planning processes, community’s ownership and outcomes’ sustainability. At the
same time, community participation helped to strengthen their capacity and promote local
knowledge, as well as increase local awareness in project/program implementation and DRM.

39.      Strong partnership between the Government, the World Bank and Trust Fund Donors
as well as other international organizations. Strong coordination and partnership among
partners and donors helped to resolve bottlenecks and accelerate successful project
implementation. Strengthening of the NDMP Network, which was a major platform to
facilitate the coordination and consultation, as well as information-sharing among
stakeholders, including Government agencies, international organizations, NGOs, etc.,
considerably contributed to the project’s results and sustainability. NDMP has now been fully
transformed into the sustained Government-led DRM Working Group (DRMWG).



                                               63
40.     Putting in place a timely and adequacy of project M&E system. Although establishing
an M&E system was challenging due to the high degree of institutional complexity and the
novelty of the new approach in DRM introduced through the project, a timely and adequate
M&E system in place could have been helped to provide timely evaluations of DRM efforts to
ensure effective prioritization in the context of budget constraints and competing priorities. In
addition, M&E should be integrated in Government’s regular M&E and reporting mechanism
to reinforce the institutional capacity and contribute to policy dialogue on DRM.

41.      Streamlining procedures for an effective system of prioritization and budget allocation
for post-disaster recovery. The existing legal framework and administration procedures did
not stipulate a separate process for post-disaster reconstruction works. Due to this, the
Government applied normal investment procedures for post-disaster reconstruction activities
under the project. Consequently, the time-gap between the disaster impact and funding
allocation for post-disaster reconstruction still remained (e.g. each phase of post-disaster
reconstruction took from 8 to 14 months from disaster event occurrence until reconstruction
start). In the last few months before the closing date of the AF, a review of the current
practices was conducted and an improved mechanism for the post-disaster reconstruction was
shared with the relevant national and provincial agencies for their further review and decision.
This activity provided critical input to the efforts of the Government as it continues to address
its responsiveness to the disaster.

42.    Establishing a culture of prevention requires dedicated efforts and resources. The
NDRMP selected a simple strategy combining analytical methodology for hazard,
vulnerability and risk identification, the socialization and formalization of preventive planning
and the development of specific mitigation measures. This has proved to be an optimal way of
capturing and maintaining the interest of stakeholders and strategic partners throughout the
project and beyond, improving their perception and understanding of risk, behavior and
capacity to manage the impact of adverse events.




                                               64
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The task team invited comments from Government agencies (MARD, MONRE and MOF)
and co-financiers (the Netherlands Government and AusAid). No comments were received
from MARD, MONRE and MOF as well as AusAid. The Netherlands Government stated
their view that the US$2 million was withheld due to the slow progress of the implementation.




                                             65
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

1. The World Bank, Natural Disaster Risk Management Project: Project Appraisal
   Document, Report No. 30935-VN, August 16, 2005.

2. The World Bank, Natural Disaster Risk Management Project: Aide-Memoires,
   Management Letters, and Implementation Status and Results Reports, 2005-2013.

3. The World Bank, Natural Disaster Risk Management Project: Project Paper on Additional
   Financing, Report No. 48427-VN, May 21, 2010.

4. Vietnam, Central Project Management Office of MARD, Borrower’s Implementation
   Completion Report, Draft received June 16, 2011.

5. Vietnam, Project Coordination Unit at Ministry of Finance (MOF), Borrower’s
   Implementation Completion Report for Additional Financing, Draft received February 12,
   2014.




                                           66
