Report No. 1167-YU                                                        FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Sarajevo Water Supply and
Sewerage Project Yugoslavia
May 7, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipieiits
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dinar (Din)
US$ 1.0         =  Din 18.0
Din 1.0         =  US$0.055
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Kilometer (km)                                             0.62 mile
Square Kilometer (km2)                                     0.386 square mile
Hectare (ha)                                               2.47 acres
Millimeter (mm)                                            0.03937 inch
Centimeter (cm)                                            0.3937 inch
Meter (m)                                                  39.37 inches
Cubic Meter (3)                                            264 US gallons
Cubic Meters per second (m3/sec)                           264      US gallons
Cubic Metes per secod (m /sec)22.8 million US gallons/day
Liter (1)                                                  0.264 US gallon
Liters per second (1/sec)                                  22,800 US gallons/day
Liters per capita per day (1/cd)                           0.264 US gallon/capita/day
Milligram per liter (mg/l)                                 1.0 parts per million
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BIH                            Bosna i Hercegovina
(Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina)
VODOVOD                            Preduzece Vodovod i Kanalizacija
Sarajevo
SFRY                            Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia
SAS                            Social Accounting Service
VODOVOD'S Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY   .           .........................................
I.      INTRODUCTION   .......            ............. .................
II.   THE SECTOR    ..................................                                                  2
III.       THE  PROJECT  AREA  ................................        .                                 3
A.      Background   ..................................                                       3
B.      Water  Supply  ................................                                       4
C.      Sewerage   ....................................                                       4
IV.      THE  PROJECT  ......................................                                           6
A.      Objectives   ..................................                                       6
B.   Description .................................                                            6
1.     Water  Supply  ...........................                                     6
2.      Sewerage   ...............................                                    7
C.      Status  of  Engineering   .......................                                     8
D.      Cost  Estimates   ..............................                                      8
E.      Financing  Plan  ..............................                                      11
F.      Implementation  ..............................                                       12
G.      Disbursements   ...............................                                      13
H.      Environmental  and  Health  Impacts   ....                       ........            14
V.      THE  PROJECT  ENTITY  ...............................                                        14
A.      Background  ..................................                                       14
B.      Organization  and  Management   .................                                    14
C.      Operation  ...................................                                       15
D.      Accounts   ....................................                                      16
E.      Audit  .......................................                                       16
F.      Insurance  ...................................                                       17
This report was prepared by Messrs. W. IHayden, A. Al-Khafaji, R. Saunders and
J. Lowther.
This docunmet has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
d  tbei ocii dAsies Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                Page No.
VI.  FINANCE .     ...........................................    17
A.  Background       ....................................  17
B.  Past Performance and Present Position .........   17
C.  Tariffs      .......................................  17
D.  Future Performance ............................    18
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................    19
A.  Water  Supply   .. ........ ...............  ...   .....  19
B.  Sewerage       ......................................  20
C.  Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs ........... ..    20
XIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .. ............    21
ANNEXES
1.  The City and Its Organization
2.  Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities
3.  Projections of Population, Water Production, Water Sales
and Water Losses
4.  Description of the Project
5.  Forecast Cost Estimates
6.  Construction Schedule
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.  Organization Chart of Preduzece Vodovod i Kanalizacija Sarajevo
9.  Income Statements - Water Supply
10.  Income Statements - Sewerage
11.  Consolidated Income Statements
12.  Cash Flow Statements
13.  Balance Sheets
14.  Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
15.  Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
16.  Justification
17.  Indicators
MAPS
IBRD 11458R - Water Supply System
IBRD 11459R - Sewerage System



APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SUMMARY
i.        Sarajevo is the Capital and economic center of the Republic of
Bosna i Hercegovina, one of the less developed Republics in Yugoslavia. The
city is located in the narrow valley of the Miljacka River at an altitude
ranging from about 500 to 700 meters above sea level. The climate is conti-
nental characterized by hot summer, severe winter and large diurnal tempera-
ture differences.
ii.       Large scale migration from the surrounding areas took place in the
post-war period and the city's population increased threefold to over 300,000
during the last thirty years. However, investment in infrastructure did not
keep pace with the city's growth and Sarajevo is presently faced with over-
strained public utility services, water shortages and high levels of water
pollution.
iii.      Most of the water distribution pipes are small and in the old part
of the city they are badly corroded. Over one third of the water produced is
unaccounted-for. This is attributed to the age of a considerable part of the
distribution system and high system pressure in parts of the city resulting
from incomplete separation of pressure zones.
iv.       Domestic sewage, hospital and industrial wastes are discharged di-
rectly into the Miljacka River without treatment or disinfection. During the
summer, the Miljacka has the characteristics of an open sewage canal as the
sewage flow is about three times the river's minimum flow. A more serious
problem, however, is the infiltration of sewage into the corroded water supply
pipes. This has resulted in several epidemics of diarrhea and hepatitis in
recent years.
v.        The proposed project aims at improving the water supply facilities
and abating the water pollution in Sarajevo. The project comprises rehabili-
tation and expansion of the water supply and sewer systems and construction
of a sewage treatment plant. The project is estimated to cost US$95.7 million
of which US$38.5 million (40%) is foreign exchange. The project components
are the least cost solution chosen from various alternatives to meet the
project objectives.
vi.       The proposed Bank loan of US$45.0 million would be lent to Preduzece
Vodovod i Kanalizacija Sarajevo (Vodovod) for a period of 25 years including
5 years grace. The loan would provide about 47% of the project costs or 98%
of the foreign exchange cost including interest during construction on the
Bank loan. The balance of the financial requirements would be met by internal
cash generation, local loans and capital contributions.



- ii -
vii.      Expenditure by the City Assembly of Sarajevo and Vodovod for preparation
of feasibility studies, final designs and tender documents amounting to about
US$1.5 million is expected to be incurred prior to loan signature.  Retro-
active Bank financing of not more than US$750,000 is proposed.
viii.     Material and equipment estimated to cost more than US$200,000 will
be procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank Group guidelines. For purpose of bid comparison, it is proposed that
qualified domestic manufacturers of these goods will be given a margin of pre-
ference of 15% or customs duties, whichever is lower. Civil works contracts
estimated to cost more than US$500,000 will be awarded after international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The other equip-
ment supply and civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia which are satisfactory. Most major
equipment supply and civil works contracts are expected to be won by Yugoslav
firms; contracts for specialized equipment for the sewage treatment plant are
expected to be awarded to foreign contractors.
ix.       Project construction is expected to begin in late 1976 and to be com-
pleted in 1980. Vodovod will be responsible for carrying out the project.
However, the Institute for Construction of the City has been designated to
coordinate construction of the project works and the natural gas system, being
installed simultaneously and partially financed by IBRD, to ensure a minimum
disruption of the normal commercial life of the city. Consultants have been
appointed to assist in final design, procurement and construction supervision.
x.        Vodovod is a financially autonomous enterprise and has been profitable
since its establishment. In 1973, Vodovod earned an overall rate of return on
net fixed assets of 9.2% which increased to 13.1% in 1974.  Its main financial
problem has been its inability to generate or borrow sufficient funds to ex-
pand the system to meet the rapidly growing demand.
xi.       The City Assembly has approved in principle tariff increases of
200% and 400% for water supply and sewerage respectively between 1973 and
1980. Vodovod will earn a rate of return on net fixed assets during the project
construction period averaging about 13% and will provide about 30% of the fi-
nancing requirements from internal cash generation.
xii.      The benefits associated with the provision of a reliable supply of
safe water and adequate sewage collection and disposal are partially revealed
by the savings in medical costs, increased productivity, general improvement
in individual well being, greater recreational possibilities and other associ-
ated economic and health benefits. I[sing incremental revenues at 1976 tariffs
as a measure of benefits, the internal economic rate of return for the water
supply investment is about 15.6%. The proposed average water supply and
sewerage tariff during the pioject construction period of Din 6.8 per m3 in
real terms compares favorably with the long term incremental costs of providing
these services at a discount rate of 8%.



- iii -
xiii.     Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$45.0 million to Preduzece Vodovod i
Kanalizacija Sarajevo with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. In view of the five-year construction period an appropriate term
for the loan is twenty five years including five years grace.






APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY)
has requested a Bank loan to help finance a project to abate the water pollu-
tion and to improve the supply of safe water in Sarajevo, capital of the
Republic of Bosna i Hercegovina (BIH).  The project comprises expansion of the
water supply and sewer systems and construction of a sewage treatment plant.
The project is estimated to cost US$95.7 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$38.5 million. A Bank loan of US$45.0 million is
proposed, equivalent to about 47% of the project cost, for a period of 25 years
including 5 years grace. Preduzece Vodovod i Kanalizacija Sarajevo (Sarajevo
Water Supply and Sewerage Enterprise), will be the borrower of the Bank loan.
1.02      The proposed water supply facilities are part of a Master Plan to
rehabilitate and expand the water supply system. Feasibility studies were
prepared in 1970 to provide adequate sewage collection and treatment facili-
ties. The studies were revised in 1974 in consultation with Bank missions and
the proposed sewerage works are part of a program to meet the city's require-
ments to 1985 with provision for expansion.
1.03      In parallel with this project the Bank is also considering financ-
ing the Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project to abate the dangerously severe
air pollution levels in the city, caused primarily by the burning of lignite
coal, wood and fuel oil for heating, by providing a natural gas supply.
1.04      A Bank reconnaissance mission to Sarajevo was undertaken in January
1973 to provide guidance on preparation of feasibility studies for project works.
Several Bank missions subsequently visited Sarajevo to review progress and
assist in project preparation. An appraisal mission comprising Messrs. W.
Hayden, J. Lee, A. Al-Khafaji, R. Saunders and J. Lowther visited Sarajevo in
December 1974. A mission to update this report was undertaken in February
1976. This report is based on information obtained by the missions and pro-
vided by the City Assembly of Sarajevo, Preduzece Vodovod i Kanalizacija
Sarajevo, and their consultants. 1/
1/   Stanford Research Institute, California; Professor Van der Emde, Vienna
Technical Institute; Energoinvest of Sarajevo; Sarajevo Institute of Urban
Planning and members of the Faculty of Civil Engineering, University of
Sarajevo.



II. THE SECTOR
2.01      The Federal Commission for Water Management is responsible for es-
tablishing the basic framework for the maintenance of water quality within
the country. Commissions for Water Management in each Republic coordinate
the water quality actions and report to the Federal Commission. Water quality
standards and streams classification are established by the Republic's Com-
mission and local communes are responsible for complying with the standards.
The Republic of BIHI issued regulations in 1967, 1968 and 1969 concerning the
"Protection of Waters, Classification of Waters, and Categorization of Streams".
The regulations define measures to limit the release of harmful materials into
the Republic's waterways and provide for construction of plants and equipment
to process wastewater and reduce pollution. Four classes of waterways were
established according to the purpose for which the water is intended. Class I
designation represents clean, unpolluted water while Class IV is a highly pol-
luted stream. Furthermore, a Republic Water Fund provides financial assistance
to the communes to achieve water qualitv objectives within their jurisdiction.
The Fund is providing a capital contribution of Din 100 million (US$5.6 mil-
lion) towards the cost of the proposed sewage treatment plant.
2.02      Increasing attention is being paid in Yugoslavia to the problems of
water pollution and to the integrated development of water resources. The
authorities wish to preserve and enhance the quality of their inland and coastal
waters by construction of flow regulating structures and waste treatment facil-
ities. Examples of other projects in the sector with which the Bank is involved
are:
(a)  Ibar Multipurpose Water Project in Kosovo for which the Bank
lent US$45.0 million in 1971 (Loan 777-YU) and
(b)  Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater Project in Croatia, for
which the Bank lent US$6.0 million in 1975 (Loan 1066-YU).
2.03      In Yugoslavia, water supply and sewerage services are not provided
or regulated at the Federal or Republic level. Individual communes are gen-
erally responsible for their own facilities and in the large urban centers the
services are provided by local enterprises. In Sarajevo, Preduzece Vodovod i
Kanalizacija Sarajevo (Vodovod) provides water supply and sewerage services
for the four communes comprising the city (para. 3.04).



- 3 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.   Background
3.01      Sarajevo is the Capital of the Republic of Bosna i Hercegovina (BIH),
one of the constituent Republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. The city is located in the valley of the Miljacka River, a tribu-
tary of the Bosna River. The altitude of the urban area varies between 480 and
720 meters above sea level (m.a.s.l.). The densely populated part of the city
lies in a narrow valley with the slopes rising steeply at about 200 meters per
kilometer. The city is surrounded by mountainous terrain, the highest point
being 1,630 m.a.s.l. The climate is continental characterized by hot summers,
severe winters and large diurnal temperature differences.
3.02      The earliest traces of organized settlement in the Sarajevo region
reach back to the Neolithic period. The city developed as a military and ad-
ministrative center within the Ottoman Empire and its physiognomy was strongly
influenced by its Turkish rulers. In 1878, Turkish power was replaced by the
Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. During the Hapsburgs' forty years rule, the present
commercial center of the city was constructed. On June 23, 1914 Sarajevo's
name became a milestone in history when the Crown Prince, Archduke Francis
Ferdinand, was assassinated in the city. The economic development of the
city was dormant in the inter war years. But in the post-war period a dra-
matic expansion of the city took place and an extensive area of high-rise
apartment buildings was constructed in the western suburbs.
3.03      Sarajevo is the economic center of BIH, one of the less developed
Republics of Yugoslavia.  The city accounts for the largest segment of the
Republic's economy but lags behind other Yugoslav urban centers in development.
Large scale migration from the underdeveloped surrounding areas took place
in the post-war period and the city's population increased threefold to over
300,000 during the last thirty years. Despite substantial investment, infra-
structure of the city did not keep pace with growth and Sarajevo, in common
with other rapidly developing urban centers, is faced with a severe housing
shortage, overstrained public utility services, traffic congestion and water
and air pollution.
3.04      In Yugoslavia, the basic unit of local government is the Commune but
communes in large urban centers may combine to form political units to which
they entrust specific rights and duties. The City of Sarajevo consists of
four communes and has been empowered to govern the Sarajevo urban area, to
raise revenue through taxes, duties and fees and to maintain and develop public
services (Annex 1). The main governing body of the city is the Skupatina
Grada or City Assembly which is composed of delegates elected by work organ-
izations, citizens and political bodies. The City Assembly undertakes the
normal local government functions and has specific authority over local public
utilities enterprises.



-4-
B.   Water Supply
3.05      Sarajevo water sources consist of mountain springs and groundwater
from a well field in the Sarajevsko Polje (Sarajevo Plain) of the Zeljeznica
River. Raw water quality is generally good, less than 10 mg/i of silicate
turbidity and a coliform bacilli count of less than 10 per 100 ml of water.
All water supplies are chlorinated and tested daily to determine the bacterio-
logical, physical and chemical quality. The system was operating at design
capacity in 1969 and it has been standard practice during the five-year period
of 1969-1974 to have the water supply to many areas of the city turned off for
several hours a day. Because of shortage of funds, the expansion planned for
1969 did not commence tntil 1973 and the new facilities were put into operation
in December 1974. The expanded facilities alleviated the water shortages but
will only be adequate to meet water demand through 1978.  IBRD Map 11458R and
Annex 2 provide details of the existing system.
3.06      At present over  one third of the water produced is unaccounted-for.
The high water losses are attributed to the advanced age of a large part of
the distribution system and high system pressure in parts of the city, result-
ing from incomplete separation of pressure zones. There are about 22,600 con-
nections serving about 90% of the population (Annex 3). The number of connec-
tions are low as a significant percentage of the population reside in high-rise
apartment buildings which are served by one or two connections per building.
Consumption per capita in 1974 was 307 1/cd, down from 323 1/cd in 1969.
3.07      Water from the mountain spring flows by gravity into the city re-
servoirs. Groundwater from the Sarajevsko Polje is distributed through three
main pumping stations and several booster stations. The distribution system
consists of some 330 km of pipes. In addition, there are some 50 Ima of gal-
vanized steel pipes, mostly 1/2 inch, which are regarded as service-connections.
Most of the distribution pipes are small - only 125 km are larger than 100 mm
diameter. The distribution pipes in the old part of the city were installed
more than sixty years ago and are badly corroded and broken.
C.   Sewerage
3.08      The present sewer system comprises about 250 km of collector, main
sewers and laterals and about 100 km of house connections. The two main col-
lectors on the right bank of the Miljacka River were constructed between 1902
and 1914 and were sized for a city population of 60,000. The network includes
separate sewers and storm water drainage serving an area of 530 hectares (ha)
and combined sewers serving an area of about 770 ha mostly along the banks
of the Miljacka River. IBRD Map 11459R and Annex 2 provide details of the
existing system.
3.09      At the end of 1974, about 70% of the population, mostly in the
densely populated center of Sarajevo, were connected to the sewer system.
The capacity of the system is inadequate and flooding of low areas occurs
after heavy rainfall. Many sewers have deteriorated badly and infiltration
into the system is excessive. Some 20,000 non-connected households discharge



- 5 -
their sewage into nearby streams or dispose of it to the ground using septic
tanks. In several sections of the town, the soil is relatively impermeable
and the septic tanks have to be emptied frequently.
3.10      The main collectors in Sarajevo discharge directly into the Miljacka
River. Storm water from the areas served by the separate system is discharged
either directly into the Miljacka or into tributaries or creeks. Sewage from
settlements in the Sarajevsko Polje is discharged into the Zeljeznica River
through a principal sewer which passes through the groundwater protection area.
This sewer line must be relocated to reduce the seepage of sewage into the
water supply source. Sewage from the small Vogosca settlement is discharged
directly to the Vogoscar River.
3.11      The storm water and sewage from the city flows into the Miljacka
River without treatment or disinfection. During the summer, the sewage flow
is about three times the minimum flow of the River. At this time, the
Miljacka has the characteristics of an open sewage canal and is the source of
an unbearable stench and a serious health hazard. Furthermore, the city hos-
pitals, i.e., the surgical clinics, the infectious disease pavillion, the
tuberculosis pavillion and leprosarium discharge their extremely dangerous
pathological wastes into the sewage network. The discharge of untreated
sewage to the Miljacka River is a health hazard not only to Sarajevo but also
to the communities along the Bosna River of which the Miljacka is a tributary.
3.12      A more serious problem, however, is the infiltration of sewage from
leaking sewers into corroded water supply pipes through back siphonage. In
spite of the regular chlorination of the city's water supplies, bacteriologi-
cal pollution of the distributed water is detected frequently, particularly
in the old part of the city where water pipes are badly corroded and very
often in close proximity to the sewers. Waterborne diseases are an ever-
present threat to the citizens of Sarajevo. Some typical waterborne bacte-
rial diseases which could be transmitted by this route are typhoid, cholera,
paratyphoid and bacillary dysentery. Waterborne viral diseases include
poliomyelitis and infectious hepatitis.
3.13      An epidemic of diarrhea was reported in the city in 1955, when
5,600 persons were reported ill and two died. The epidemic was caused by
infiltration of sewage from a hospital into the water supply system. A re-
cent diarrhea epidemic caused by sewage infiltration also was reported in
1973 when 2,477 persons were infected but none died. In 1970, an epidemic
of infectious hepatitis struck the city and in certain areas which lack
adequate water supply and sanitation such outbreaks recur frequently. Be-
cause of water shortages and frequent pipe failures in recent years, there
have been several epidemics of hepatitis among school children. Records of
the Department of Hygiene and Epidemiology of the Sarajevo Health Institute
show the following reported cases of waterborne diseases for the period
1967-1973:



- 6 -
Number of   Treated in Hospital   Number of
Disease                        Patients      Number      Days       Deaths
Hepatitis Virosa                      4,155        1,850        30          4
Typhus Abdominalis                      165          131       30           1
Paratyphus A & B                         38           34       30           -
Disenteria                            4,033          739       14           1
Salmonellosis                           252           90       14           -
With Sarajevo receiving tourists from all parts of the world, the threat of a
waterborne cholera outbreak is not remote if the present unsanitary conditions
prevail.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
4.01      The proposed project aims at improving the water supply facilities
and abating the water pollution in the Sarajevo area. The project comprises
rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and sewer systems and con-
struction of a sewage treatment plant. Improvement of the water supply fa-
cilities is needed in order to provide safe and adequate supply of water.
Rehabilitation and extension of the existing inadequate sewer system and
construction of a new sewage treatment plant is essential to safeguard public
health and abate pollution in the Miljacka and Bosna Rivers.
B.   Description
4.02      The project elements are described in detail in Annex 4 and shown
on IBRD Maps 11458R and 11459R. Project components were selected from among
several alternatives as the least cost solution to meet the projected require-
ments. The following is a summary of the proposed project works:
1. WATER SUPPLY
4.03      The proposed water supply facilities are part of a master plan to
expand the production facilities at the Sarajevsko Polje and to rehabilitate
and extend the distribution network.  They are designed to provide Sarajevo
with an adequate supply of water through 1985 and to serve an area approximate-
ly twice that served by the present system. The proposed water supply facili-
ties comprise the following:
(a) construction of an infiltration gallery;



- 7 -
(b) construction of six new reservoirs and expansion of three
existing reservoirs to provide an additional storage capacity
of 24,500 m3;
(c) construction of a booster pumping station and expansion of
four existing pumping stations;
(d)  installation of some 31 km of water mains to improve services
in existing areas and to provide water for new developments;
(e)  replacement of about 51 km of corroded distribution pipes and
about 5,000 house connections, mostly in the old quarter of
the city;
(f) installation of a telemetry control system and master meters
to facilitate operation of the system;
(g) undertaking of hydrogeological studies to prepare a water
resources master plan;
(h) construction of a headquarter for Vodovod and supply of office
equipment; and
(i) provision for engineering services including designs, super-
vision, project administration and training.
2. SEWERAGE
4.04      The present sewer system, mostly old and worn-out, includes sanitary
sewers to remove sewage and combined sewers to remove sewage and storm water.
Several alternatives for collection of sewage and storm water were investigated
including separate sanitary sewers, combined sewers and various possible com-
binations of the two systems. A city-wide sanitary sewer system and a sewage
treatment plant were the least cost solution. The existing combined sewers
will be gradually converted to stormwater sewers. The proposed main sewers
are designed for the projected sewage flows of the year 2000, while the prin-
cipal units of the treatment plant are designed for the 1985 flows with provi-
sions for expansion. The proposed sewerage facilities comprise the following:
(a) construction of about 33 km of collectors and main sewers;
(b)  replacement of 4.5 km of worn-out sewer laterals and about
2000 service connections;
(c) construction of sewage treatment facilities;
(d) installation of sludge filters and renovation of the existing
dump to provide for proper disposal of the dried sludge;



- 8 -
(e) provision for engineering services including designs, super-
vision, project administration and training, and
(f) installation of an activated sludge pilot plant for experi-
mentation in sewage treatment process to attain optimal utili-
zation of the main treatment facilities.
4.05      Several investigations were undertaken by Vodovod and their consultants
to determine the organic and hydraulic loadings of the present sewage and to
assess the probable effects of various sewage treatment processes on the water
quality of the Bosna and Miljacka Rivers. To meet the Republic's water quality
standards for these rivers and because of their relatively low assimilative
capacity during period of minimum flow, a high degree of sewage treatment is
necessary. A sewage treatment plant employing the activated sludge process,
located near the confluence of the Bosna and Miljacka Rivers, is recommended.
The sewage effluent will be discharged to the Bosna River where more dilution
water is available. Primary treatment will be provided for sewage from the
nearby settlement of Vogosca prior to discharge to the Bosna River.
4.06      The sewage treatment will be performed by means of a biological
process, the activated sludge process, in which most of the organic matter
is assimilated by a bacterial mass and taken out from the sewage. Primary
and excess sludge will be digested and pumped to the proposed sanitary landfill
at the site of the existing dump. Dewatering will be undertaken on belt filters
and the dried sludge disposed at the landfill.
C.   Status of Engineering
4.07      Feasibility studies and preliminary engineering for the water supply
and sewerage components were prepared by Vodovod with the assistance of local
and foreign consultants. Energoinvest and the Institute for Urban Planning,
experienced local consultants, in joint venture with Professor Van der Emde
of the Vienna Technical Institute and other foreign consultants were appointed
to prepare final designs, tender documents and assist in bid evaluation and
supervision of construction. The project provides for about 100 man years of
engineering services, training and operational assistance. About 20% of these
services will be provided by foreign consultants. Retroactive financing of
about US$750,000 is proposed (para 4.14).
D.   Cost Estimates
4.08      Project cost estimates, including duties and taxes, but excluding
interest during construction, are shown in Annex 5. The total project cost
is estimated at about US$95.7 million of which about US$38.5 million (40%) is
the estimated foreign exchange. Summary of cost estimates is as follows:



-9-
Project Elements                               Project Costs
of Total
Million Dinars          Million Dollars       Project
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Costs
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
Infiltration Gallery and
River ReRulation              6.7      4.4     11.1      .4      .2        .6     .6
Pumping Stations              10.0      7.9     17.9      .6      .4      1.0    1.0
Distribution Net-
work Extension               53.4    34.5      87.9    3.0    1.9        4.9    5.1
Distribution Pipes
Replacement                  82.4    46.3    128.7    4.5    2.6         7.1    7.4
Reservoirs                    46.5    19.9      66.4    2.6    1.1        3.7    3.9
Telemetry System,
Power & Cathodic
Protection                    7.8    19.2      27.0      .4    1.1       1.5    1.6
Enterprise Head-
quarter                      22.3     9.6      31.9    1.2      .6       1.8    1.9
Office Equipment                .9      3.5      4.4      .1      .1       .2      .2
Water Resource
Investigation                10.4     3.5      13.9      .6     .2        .8      .8
Engineering Services
& Training                   26.7    13.1      39.8    1.5      .7       2.2    2.3
Physical Contingencies        40.0    24.3      64.3    2.2    1.4        3.6    3.8
Price Increases              102.8    62.3    165.1    5.7    3.5         9.2    9.6
Total Water Supply          409.9   248.5    658.4   22.8   13.8        36.6   38.2
SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Collectors & Sewers          117.5    61.3    178.8    6.5    3.4         9.9   10.3
Reconstruction
Sewers & Service
Connections                  17.1     7.3      24.4    1.0      .4       1.4    1.5
Treatment Facilities         215.7   187.1    402.8   12.0   10.4        22.4   23.4
Sludge Disposal Site          17.9    10.2      28.1    1.0      .6       1.6    1.7
Engineering Services
& Training                   25.8    17.2      43.0    1.4    1.0        2.4    2.5
Physical Contingencies        59.1    42.5    101.6    3.3    2.3         5.6    5.9
Price Increases              166.1   119.4    285.5    9.2    6.6        15.8   16.5
Total Sewerage              619.2   445.0   1064.2   34.4   24.7        59.1   61.8
Total Project Costs      1,029.1   693.5   1722.6   57.2   38.5         95.7  100.0



- 10 -
4.09      The cost estimates were prepared by Vodovod and consultants on the
basis of preliminary designs. Unit prices were derived from recent civil
works contracts and suppliers' quotations for pipes and equipment. The cost
of engineering services was estimated using prevailing rates for consultant
services in Yugoslavia and Western Europe. The cost estimates-reflect price
conditions expected to prevail in January 1976 and are reasonable. Physical
contingencies of 15% were added to cover unforeseen conditions which may arise
during detailed designs and construction of the project. Price increases
during the project construction period were calculated using the following
annual rates:
1976    1977-79      1980
Equipment             10        8           7
Civil Works           14       12          10
4.10      During the project construction period, Vodovod would undertake,
in addition to the proposed project works, land purchases and relocation of
houses within the groundwater sources protection zone and routine expansion
and renovation of the water supply and sewerage systems. The capital expendi-
ture required to cover these activities was estimated at about Din 140.0
(US$7.8) million.



E.   Financing Plan
4.11      The following table sets out the estimated total fund requirements
for the project construction period and the sources from which those require-
ments are forecasted to be met:
FY 1976-1980
VODOVOD
Din          USS          %
---------Millions---------
Requirements
Project Expenditures                          1,722.6      95.7         85
Interest During Construction
IBRD                 136.3       7.6           7
Local Banks            22.1       1.2          1
Other Capital Expenditure                       140.0       7.8          7
Total Requirements                          2,021.0    112.3          100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                        757.6     42.1          37
Less: Contributions, Reserve Fund,
Debt Service & Increased
Working Capital                       133.7       7.4          7
Net Internal Cash Generation                   623.9      34.7         30
Borrowi~ns
Proposed IBRD Loan                              810.0     45.0          40
Local Banks Loans                               152.1       8.5          8
Total Borrowings                              962.1      53.5         48
-Capital Contributions
Republic Water Fund                             100.0       5.6          5
City Assembly                                    50.0       2.7          3
Housing Fund                                    150.0       8.3          7
Site Preparation Fund                           135.6       7.5          7
Total Capital Contributions                   435.0      24.1          22
Total Sources:                                 2,021.0    112.3         100
4.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$45.0 million would provide about 40% of
the total financing requirements or about 98% of the foreign exchange cost in-
cluding interest during construction on the Bank loan.  The loan is equivalent
to about 47% of the project costs and is consistent with Bank lending to the
less developed Republics in Yugoslavia. The period of the loan would be 25
years, including 5 years grace.
4.13      The balance of Vodovod's financing will be provided from domestic
sources in BIB as follows: 30% from internal cash generation, 8% from local
loans and 22% by way of capital contributions. The internal cash generation
was calculated using proposed water supply and sewerage tariffs (Annex 15)
and operating costs were escalated for price increases at 16% for 1976, 13%
for 1977, 10% for 1978 and 7% per annum thereafter. The local banks loans are
for a period of 20 years including a grace period of five years, at an interest



- 12 -
rate of 7.5% per annum. The City Assembly has agreed to guarantee the local
financing and provide the additional funds to meet cost overruns, if any. A
condition of effectiverness of the Bank loan is that the financing plan is ra-
tified by the appropriate authorities.
4.14      Expenditure by the City Assembly and Vodovod for preparation of feas-
ibility studies, final designs, and tender documents amounting to about US$1.5
million is expected to be incurred prior to loan signature. Retroactive Bank
financing of not more than US$750,000 is proposed.
F.   Implementation
Construction Schedule
4.15      Construction of the project works is scheduled to commence in late
1976 and to be completed by the end of 1980. Details of the construction
schedule are given in Annex 6. Vodovod will be responsible for construction
and operation of the proposed facilities.
Construction Coordination
4.16      The City Assembly has recently estahlished the Institute for Con-
structior. of the City (Institute) to be responsible for the physical develop-
ment of the urban area. The Institute has been designated to coordinate im-
plementation of this project and a natural gas system, being installed simul-
taneouslv and financed under the Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, to
ensure a minimum disruption of the normal commercial life of the city.  This
is particularlv necessarv in Sarajevo where the streets are narrow and traffic
congestion is a serious problem even in normal times. The City Assembly and
Vodovod have agreed that the Institute will have an overall responsibility
for coordinating the construction of the project but that supervision of
construction of the project works will be the responsibility of Vodovod.
Land Ac uis tion
4.17      Water pipes and sewers will generally be laid in the streets, but
Vodovod must acquire land for the pumping stations, sewage treatment plant and
the administration building. It is understood that the necessary land will
be purchased from the communes. Vodovod has agreed that all necessary land,
as well as easements in the public roadways, will be acquired prior to award
of major contracts.
Groundwater Protection.
4.18      To safeguard against wollution of the groundwater sources, Vodovod
have proposed enactment of a municipal ordinance to establish four protection
zones in the Sarajevsko Polje catchment area with defined land use limitations.
Vodovod will also undertake during the project construction period land purchases
and relocation of about 120 residences which are in close proximity to existing
wells. The City Assembly and Vodovod have agreed that within twelve months from
the date of effectiveness of the loan, they will take all measures necessary
to establish protection zones for the cityTs groundwater sources in the
Sarajevsko Polle area.



- 13 -
Procurement
4.19      Materials and equipment contracts estimated to cost more than
US$200,000 will be procured after international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank Group guidelines. For purpose of bid comparison, it is pro-
posed that qualified domestic manufacturers of these goods will be given a
margin of preference of 15% or customs duties, whichever is lower. Civil
works contracts estimated to cost more than US$500,000 will be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group's guidelines.
Other equipment supply and civil works contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with the
procedures of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia which are satis-
factory. Minor works, such as replacement of service connections and renova-
tions to the existing water supply and sewer networks, may be carried out by
force account, under arrangements acceptable to the Bank, up to a value in
aggregate not exceeding US$10.0 million.
4.20      Contracts for the supply of equipment for the sewage treatment plant
and other specialized equipment are expected to be awarded to foreign contrac-
tors. All other equipment supply and civil works contracts are expected to
be won by Yugoslav firms.
Monitoring Criteria
4.21      Annex 17 shows the indicators which would be monitored during and
after execution of the project to measure the achievement of the technical,
financial, administrative and training goals set for the proposed project.
Vodovod has agreed to prepare and forward to the Bank for comment quarterly
and annual reports covering this monitoring criteria.
G.  Disbursements
4.22      The proposed Bank loan of US$45.0 million would be disbursed as
follows:
(a)  Equipment and Materials        - 100% of the C.I.F. cost of directly
(US$ 11.5 million)         imported equipment, materials and
pipe and 50% of the total cost of
locally supplied equipment, materials
and pipe.
(b)  Civil Works                    - 30% of the cost of civil works and
(US$18.0 million)          force account work.
(c)  Engineering Services           - 50% of the cost of consulting serv-
(US$3.3 million)           ices and training.
{d)  Interest During Construction - 100% of the interest during construc-
(US$7.6 million)           tion on the Bank loan.
(e) Unallocated
(US$4.6 million)



- 14 -
The estimated schedule of disbursements is in Annex 7. On completion of the
project, any unused balance of the loan would be cancelled.
H.   Environmental and Health Impacts
4.23      There are a variety of important environmental and health benefits
associated with the provision of a reliable, convenient and safe supply of
water and adequate collection and treatment of sewage. The proposed project
facilities will eliminate many of the existing serious health threatening de-
ficiencies of the city's water supply and sewer systems such as infiltration
of sewage into corroded water pipes, the possibility of a return of an inter-
mittent supply of water, the unsanitary conditions in areas of the city with-
out sewers and the discharge of untreated sewage and hospital wastes into the
Miljacka River.
4.24      The Miljacka River is presently an open sewage canal degrading the
city's environment and polluting the Bosna River and other streams which are
the source of water supply to many downstream users. The proposed sewerage
project will eventually restore the Miljacka's water quality to allow the re-
establishment of traditional recreational facilities along its banks and
permit water contact sports. The pollutant loadings on downstream rivers
will also be considerably reduced allowing greater utilization of their po-
tential for recreational facilities and as sources of drinking water.
4.25      Predictions of water quality for the Bosna River indicate that
shortly after construction of the sewage treatment plant, this river will
meet the Republic's water quality standards. However, because of the uncon-
trolled sewage discharges throughout the city and the fact that a city-wide
sanitary sewer system would be constructed gradually, it will be several
years hence before the section of the Miljacka River through the city can
meet the Republic's standards.
V. THE PROJECT ENTITY
A.   Background
5.01      Preduzece Vodovod i Kanalizacija Sarajevo (Vodovod) was established
in February 1972 by a merger of the former water supply and sewerage organiza-
tions based on a referendum of the citizens and on decisions of the Workers'
Council for each organization. Vodovod is responsible for the water supply,
sewerage and drainage systems in the four communes forming the city of Sarajevo.
B.   Organization and Manqgement
5.02      In accordance with the Yugoslav law, Vodovod is an Organization of
Associated Labor (OAL) which carries out its activities with socially-owned
resources and is governed by a Self-Management Agreement adopted by the
workers. Direct self-management is implemented through meetings of the



- 15 -
workers and by the election of delegates to the Workers' Council. Vodovod is
further subdivided into three Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOAL) -
Water Supply, Sewerage and Administration which are also directed by separate
Workers' Councils. The BOAL Workers' Councils deal with policy matters af-
fecting their own unit while the OAL Workers' Council deals with matters
affecting the organization as a whole. However, Vodovod is not a fully auto-
nomous organization as proposed tariff changes, construction programs, ap-
pointment of Director General and other decisions must be approved by the
City Assembly. In addition, the 1974 Constitution of the Socialist Federal
Republic has made provision for the establishment of Self-Managing Communi-
ties of Interest, consisting of representatives of consumers and organiza-
tions providing public services, to link the interests of these two parties.
It is envisaged that these Communities of Interest will be established in
Sarajevo in the near future and will take over some of the functions of the
City Assembly relating to Vodovod. The City Assembly will be represented on
the Communities of Interest and will have a constitutional responsibility for
ensuring that decisions meet the needs of the City.
5.03      The organization chart of Vodovod is in Annex 8.  The day to day
operation of the organization is undertaken by the Director General assisted
by the three BOAL managers. The total staff employed is 970 - Wiater Supply
460; Sewerage 230 and Administration 280. Vodovod has been well managed and
has competent and experienced staff particularly in the water supply sector.
To utilize their experienced engineering staff, Vodovod has provided consulting
services to Banja Luka, Split and other cities in Yugoslavia.
5.04      Few cities in Yugoslavia have sewage treatment plants.  Most of
Vodovod's staff have no operational experience in sewage treatment. However,
they have a high academic standard and should only require limited practical
training. Provision has been made in the cost estimates for training abroad
for about six engineers and technicians to form the nucleus of the plant
operating staff. Furthermore, provisions for training on operation and
maintenance of specialized equipment will be included in the contracts for
the supply of such equipment.
5.05      The administrative, clerical and design staff are housed in numerous
inadequate buildings throughout the city with resulting lack of communications
and inefficiency. The project provides for the construction of a new office
building for Vodovod.
C.  Operation
5.06      Operation of the present facilities is adequate.  However, because
of the age of the system, Vodovod is experiencing frequent pipe failures which
require many of the maintenance staff to undertake emergency assignments.
This work, together with the expansion program, has resulted in Vodovod paying
less attention to preventive maintenance than required. Since the proposed
project works will be undertaken primarily by contractors, Vodovod is expected
to devote adequate attention to preventive maintenance in the future.



- 16 -
5.07      The present high water losses, 39% in 1975 (Annex 2) are attributed
to the advanced age of a considerable amount of the distribution system. The
project provides for replacement of about 51 km of corroded pipes and several
thousand service connections to reduce the presently excessive water losses.
Furthermore, Vodovod will continue their program of leak detection and pipe
replacement in parallel with project works.
D.   Accounts
5.08      In 1971, the book values of the fixed assets of the two previous
enterprises were revalued at current prices in compliance with a national
program. The financial accounts are kept in accordance with the system laid
down by the Social Accounting Services (SAS). An adequate budgetary control
and costing system is also in operation. The SAS system is based on the
double entry system but some structural reorganization is required to provide
financial statements in accordance with the Bank's normal format. The ac-
counting staff are competent and should be able to make the necessary adjust-
ments. Key board accounting machines are used but these are in poor condition
and provision is included in the cost estimates for their replacement.
5.09      MIore than 99% of the service connections to the water supply system
are metered and billed monthly. Customers with sewerage connection are sur-
charged according to their water consumption. However, in Sarajevo there are
only about 22,000 meters as the majority of the people live in apartment
buildings served by one or two meters. Vodovod bills the apartment management
committee which prorates the charge to each household on a per capita basis
and collects the money. The system is inexpensive and efficient and bad debts
are negligible. Vodovod has had difficulty in the past collecting accounts from
industrial consumers but this problem should be reduced with the enactment in
1975 of the SFRY Provision of Payments Concerning the Users of Social Resources
which, among other provisions, required enterprises to settle their accounts
promptly.
E.   Audit
5.10      As with all Yugoslav enterprises, an annual audit of Vodovod accounts
is undertaken by the Social Accounting Service (SAS). The scope and quality
of SAS audit have previously been considered inadequate to meet the Bank's
normal audit requirements. Recently, however, a group of SAS auditors has
undertaken an intensive course and in-service training in modern auditing
techniques and this staff will be utilized to audit enterprises receiving
Bank funds. Sufficient qualified staff will not be available to audit all
Bank projects for some time.  Vodovod has agreed to make arrangements with
this SAS special audit group or other independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank to undertake an annual audit of Vodovod's accounts of sufficient scope
and quality to meet Bank requirements and that the annual accounts and auditors'
report will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal
year commencing with the financial statements for FY76.



- 17 -
F.   Insurance
5.11      Vodovod's insurance policy is established by the Workers' Council.
Buildings, equipment and vehicles are insured against the normal risks. The
water supply and sewerage network is not insured except for landslide and
flood risks. This policy is satisfactory.
VI. FINANCE
A.   Background
6.01      Vodovod has been a profitable enterprise since its establishment
in 1972. Its main financial problem has been its inability to generate or
borrow sufficient funds to expand the system to meet the rapidly growing
demand. As a consequence of the proposed major investment program, substan-
tial tariff increases will be necessary to ensure Vodovod's financial viability.
6.02      Vodovod is a financially autonomous enterprise.  Its revenues are de-
rived from monthly water and sewerage charges based on metering. For the
limited number of connections not metered (less than 1%) charges are based on
estimated consumption. Sewerage charges are surcharged on water consumption
for consumers connected to the sewerage system. Full costs are recovered for
connections to the water supply and sewerage system.  Meter rents and deposits
are not required.
B.   Past Performance and Present Position
6.03      In 1973, Vodovod earned an overall rate of return on average net fixed
assets of 9.2% which increased to 13.1% in 1974. The increase in 1974 is due
entirely to increased tariffs as water sales were constant at about 20 million
m3. In 1975, the return is projected to rise to 15.4% with increased water sales
and increased tariffs. Operating costs increased substantially during this
period; 1974 - 13% and 1975 - 61% due mainly to increased labor and power costs.
Both the water supply and sewerage sector contributed to the surpluses each year.
However, the rate of return overstates the position as during these years main-
tenance staff and equipment were diverted to capital works and regular mainte-
nance was neglected.  It is planned to discontinue this practice in 1976.
6.04      Vodovod has not been successful in meeting its objective of providing
an adequate water supply and sewerage system because of insufficient financial
resources to expand the system in line with demand. A policy of low tariffs
in the past did not generate the required resources. With the substantial
improvements in tariffs in the period 1971-74 (water and sewerage tariffs were
increased by about 200%) internal cash generation provided about 44% of the
capital investment costs in 1973-74.
6.05      The debt equity ratio in 1974 at 16:84 was very satisfactory but
this position was due to Vodovod's inability to borrow adequate funds. At



- 18 -
December 31, 1974 Vodovod loans outstanding totalled Din 71 million and con-
sisted of over 40 loans from local institutions with repayment periods ranging
from 5 to 40 years. Most of the loans are at subsidized interest with an over-
all average interest rate of less than 4%.
6.06      In the past, Vodovod has received grants from other local organiza-
tions to assist in financing its capital program. In 1972, all employed
citizens of Sarajevo approved a referendum to contribute, in the form of a
tax on salaries, towards the construction of water supply, health protection
and school facilities. Funds from this contribution financed part of the
water resource development work completed in December 1974.
C.   Tariffs
6.07      Responsibility for proposing tariff increases rests with Vodovod but
any new tariff must be approved by the City Assembly. The Assembly has de-
cided that Vodovod's internal cash generation must provide a substantial con-
tribution to the financing of the proposed project. A resolution was passed
approving in principle annual increase in water and sewerage tariffs up to
1988 (Annex 15). These proposed tariffs provide for a 200% and 400% increase
for water supply and sewerage respectively between 1973 and 1980. However,
each annual increase must be approved by the City Assembly before implementation.
6.08      The tariff schedule provides for two consumer categories:  household
and others. The rate for household consumers is half the rate charged to other
consumers. From a resource allocation point of view, all consumers should pay
a price equal to the incremental cost of supplying the service. However, in
Sarajevo most families reside in multi-unit apartment buildings served by one
metered connection. Water consumption per household is low (about 12 m3 per
month in 1974) as the average apartment is small with one bathroom, common
laundry facilities and no gardens. The lower domestic tariff ensures that
the necessary minimum amount of water would be available to the lower income
households at reasonable cost. To implement a stepped tariff structure for
domestic consumers would involve Vodovod in substantial additional costs for
metering and collection with limited potential water savings.
D.   Future Performance
6.09      The project will increase the net value of fixed assets invested
in water supply threefold to Din 1,115 million and sewerage investment eleven
times to Din l,222 million. The financial forecasts 1975-83 for Vodovod are
in Annexes 9 through 14. Costs were escalated for prices increases at 16% for
1976, 13% for 1977, 10% for 1978 and 7% per annum thereafter. The forecasts
show a rate of return on average net fixed assets during the project construc-
tion period averaging over 13% and rising to a peak of about 19% in 1977.
After completion of the project, the combined rate of return is reduced to
about 6% because of the substantial increase in fixed assets. The rate of
return for water in this period is about 9% and for sewerage about 3%. As
the major part of the assets were recently constructed, this rate of return is
satisfactory.



- 19 -
6.10      A contribution to future capital expansion requirement is more in
line with the Yugoslav Socialist system than a rate of return concept. The
former concept also provides an automatic adjustment against future inflation.
Therefore, to ensure that the internal cash generation target is met and to
provide a satisfactory contribution towards future investment, Vodovod has
agreed to implement whichever is the higher of: (i) the authorized tariff
scale for water supply and sewerage (Annex 15); Gr (ii) a modified tariff scale
which, after making provision for increased working capital, will provide
revenue sufficient to finance not less than 30% of the cost of investment
during the period 1976-1980, and beginning with the year 1981 to finance each
year not less than 35% of the average cost of Investment during each consecu-
tive three-year period comprising one actual and two forecast years.
6.11      The debt equity 1/ ratio at the end of 1980 is projected at 42:58.
The debt service will require about 29% of the gross income in 1981. The
debt service coverage in 1981 is projected at 1.3 and in 1982/83 at 1.5 after
payment of contributions, reserve fund and taxes. Agreement was reached that
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Vodovod will not raise further loans
unless its net cash generation before depreciation and interest, exceed 1.3
times its debt service in any future year, includirg debt service on the amount
to be borrowed.
6.12      The cost of converting the existing dump site to a sanitary landfill
will be borne by Vodovod. However, the city enterprise Rad, which is presently
responsible for solid waste collection and disposal, will operate the landfill.
Vodovod has agreed that within twelve months of the date of effectiveness of
the loan, Vodovod will conclude a contract with Rad for joint ownership of the
landfill and an equitable allocation of operating costs.
VII. BENEFITS AND JISTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed project aims at improvinp the water supply facilities
and abating the water pollution in the Sarajevo area. The project components
were selected from various alternatives as the least cost solutions to meet
the project's objectives.
A.   Water Supplv
7.02      There are a variety of benefits associated with the provision of
a convenient and safe water supply in Sarajevo. AmonR the more important
benefits of the improved water supply will be the health benefits. These
benefits are partially revealed through medical cost savings, a general im-
provement in individual well being, and a cost savings to, or an increased
productivity of business enterprises. This follows from the fact that a
1/   Although the concept of equity does not exist in Yugoslavia, it has been
used here as the best approximation to differentiate between the enter-
prises own funds and borrowings.



- 20 -
healthier population will require less health care, tend to have lower em-
ployment absentee rates, and to be more productive when they are on the job.
7.03      The internal economic rate of return was calculated using incremental
water sales at 1976 tariffs as a measure of benefits. Investment costs were
adjusted for taxes, inflation and replacement works. Costs of replacement of
corroded distribution pipes and service connections were excluded from the in-
vestment costs as the benefits resulting from these works were not added to
the incremental water sales.  The internal economic rate of return on the
water supply investment is estimated at 15.6% (Annex 16). If the incremental
water consumption was reduced by 25%, and the other assumptions remained valid,
the rate of return would be about 9.5%.
B.   Sewerage
7.04      The benefits of the proposed investment in sewage collection and
treatment in Sarajevo fall into the following categories, which are not nec-
essarily mutually exclusive: (a) health benefits; (b) savings on future
septic tank expenditures; (c) an increase in property values along waterways
which are currently polluted by untreated sewage; and (d) recreation benefits
which will result from the partial cleansing of the Miljacka and Bosna Rivers.
These benefits, however, cannot be accurately quantified. The major justifica-
tion for the sewerage investment is that the collection and treatment of sewage
in Sarajevo is necessary for healthful and orderly development of the area and
that the proposed method of collecting and treating the sewage is the least
cost solution.
C.   Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
7.05      The problems of water supply and sewerage benefits measurement high-
light the need to formulate a water supply and sewerage tariff policy which
reflects the true costs of supplying water and disposing of sewage in
Sarajevo. The objective of this would be to assure that investment decisions
can be made with greater confidence as to their economic merit. If the price
of water supply and sewerage services is fixed at a level which approximates
the long run marginal cost of supplying those services, then it will be demon-
strable that increments in the consumption of water supply and sewerage ser-
vices are valued by consumers at least as much as the resources consumed in
providing those increments, i.e. approximate economic efficiency will be
attained from a resource allocation point of view.
7.06      The average incremental cost of water supply and sewage disposal in
Sarajevo is estimated to be approximately Din 6.6 per m3 at a discount rate
of 8% and Din 7.3 per m3 at a discount of 10% (Annex 16). The proposed aver-
age water supply and sewerage tariff during the project construction period of
about Din 6.8 per m3 in real terms compares favorably with the long-term incre-
mental cost of these services at a discount rate of 8%.



- 21 -
VIII.  AGREEMENTS RFACHED AND RFCOMMENDATION
8.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues referred to in
Chapters IV and VI and subject to the condition of effectiveness in para 4.13
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$45.0 million to Preduzece Vodo-
vod i Kanalizacija Sarajevo (Vodovod) with the guarantee of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In view of the five year construction period
an appropriate term for the loan is twenty five years including five years
grace.
May 7, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
THE CITY AND ITS ORGANIZATION
Background
1.        Sarajevo is the capital of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(BIH), one of the constituent Republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. The city is located along the banks of the Miljacka River, a
tributary of the Bosna River. Small settlements within the city are located
along the banks of the Zeljeznica and Josanica Rivers, also tributaries of
the Bosna River. The altitude of the urban area varies between 480 and 720
meters above sea level (m.a.s.l.). A peak elevation of 1,630 m.a.s.l. marks
the highest point of the city's recreational area. The city has a continental
climate characterized by hot summers, severe winters and large diurnal tem-
perature differences.
2.        The earliest traces of organized settlement in the Sarajevo region
reach back to the Neolithic period. The city developed as a military and
administrative center within the Ottoman Empire and its physiognomy was
strongly influenced by its Turkish rulers. In 1878, Turkish power was re-
placed by the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. During the Hapsburgs forty years
rule, the present commercial center of the city was constructed. Sarajevo's
name became a milestone in history when the Crown Prince, Archduke Francis
Ferdinand, was assassinated in the city on June 28, 1914. The economic devel-
opment of the city was dormant in the inter war years. But in the post-war
period a dramatic expansion of the city took place and an extensive area of
high-rise apartment blocks were constructed in the Western suburbs of the city.
3.        Sarajevo is the economic center of BIH; one of the less developed
Republic of Yugoslavia. The city accounts for the largest segment of the
Republic's economy but lags behind other Yugoslav urban centers in development.
Large scale migration from the underdeveloped surrounding areas took place in
the post-war period and the city's population increased threefold to over
300,000 during the last thirty years. In spite of substantial investment in
the infra- and super-structures of the city, it did not keep pace with its
growth and Sarajevo, in common with other rapidly developed urban centers, and
is faced with problems of severe housing shortage, overstrained public utility
services, traffic congestion and water and air pollution.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
The Communes and the City
4.        Under the Constitution of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugos-
lavia, the basic unit of local government is the commune. Communes in large
urban areas may form special social-political communities entrusted with
specific rights and duties normally held by communes. There are four communes
in Sarajevo (Centar - the original old city, Novo Sarajevo, Ilidza, and Vogosca).
They have established the social-political community of the city. The sta-
tutes of the city, which are agreed by each of the communes, define the rights
and duties of the city government. Only those rights and duties pertaining to
the common interest of all the communes are given to the city and rights and
duties not specifically given are retained by the communes.
5.        The city has been empowered to:  govern the Sarajevo urban area.
raise revenue through taxes, duties and other fees, maintain public services,
and plan the future development of the city. The communes retain coordinating
rights regarding the future development of the city and the allocation of bud-
geted resources. Investment funds are centralized in the city and allocated
to communes for projects wholly within a commune or to the city budget for
inter-communal projects.
6.        Although the communes have given to the city major powers for
governing the urban area, there is close coordination between the communes
and the city. Communes may initiate legislation at the city level on matters
over which they have constitutional authority, and most legislation prepared
for the city is coordinated with the communes. Issues on which the city and
the communes cannot agree are referred back to the workers and citizens of
the urban area.
Organization of the City Government
7.        The City Assembly (or Skupstina Grada) is the central authority of
the city (see attached organization chart). It is the city's legislative
body and is composed of delegates from social sector work organizations (about
one delegate per one thousand workers), private sector workers, citizens iden-
tified by regional areas and political bodies such as the League of Communists
and trade union groups. Delegates serve only at the pleasure of their consti-
tuents and may be recalled at any time. The commune assemblies are organized
along similar lines and elections for both are held simultaneously.
8.        The day to day functions of the city government are carried out by
six Secretariats. The Secretariats and their responsibilities are as follows:
(i) Internal Affairs: Internal security such as police and fire
protection,
(ii) National Defense: Coordination with national security efforts,
(iii) Inspections: Insures compliance with established standards
such as building codes, health requirements and so on,



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5 pages
(iv) Economic and Finance: In cooperation with work organizations
plans and carries out the economic development of the city;
oversees the activities of public service organizations; and
prepares budget and tax policy,
(v) Social Activities: Educational, scientific and cultural
activities, and
(vi) General Affairs: Building maintenance, city personnel manage-
ment and execution of the budget (accounting, payroll).
The executive organ of the city government is an Executive Board responsible
to the City Assembly. The Executive Board is composed of the President and
Vice President of the Assembly, the secretary of each Secretariat, and two
members elected by the delegates of the City Assembly. The Executive Board
carries out the decisions of the Assembly and prepares all legislation going
to the City Assembly for approval.
9.        There are two types of special organizations, outside the Secretariats,
which report directly to the City Assembly through the Executive Board. One
type is commissions, composed of citizens and government officials, which serve
as special advisors on specific problem areas of interest to all citizens of
the city. Among the ten commissions is one for environment. It serves as a
special advisor to the City Assembly on general questions of environmental
protection and improvement.
10.       The other type of organization reporting directly to the City
Assembly is institutes created to oversee the future development of the city.
There are institutes for economic research, area planning, and construction
of the city. The Institute for the Construction of the City provides for and
oversees the physical development of the urban area. It coordinates all city
construction programs and functions as the investor in development projects
on behalf of the city. It has been established as a self-financing institute
whose revenues are derived from its function as a land developer--it buys and
sells land, including in the selling price the cost of needed infrastructure
plus one percent for the institute's operational requirements.
The City and the Public Service Enterprise
11.       Work organizations which offer public services are under the control
of the city government. Yugoslav law provides that the means of production are
owned by society as a whole but they are entrusted through the system of self-
management to the control of the workers that use them. When work organiza-
tions provide public services such as education, public utilities, public
transport, health, welfare and so on, local governments share control of these
activities with the workers. In Sarajevo the measure of control is specific-
ally provided for in the statutes of the city. The city has the right to:



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5 pages
(i) approve the working statutes of the work organization;
(ii) review work programs and plans and approve activities
financed by the city;
(iii) approve changes in the functions or organization of the
working organization;
(iv) approve the appointment of the manager or managing body;
(v) approve the creation of any new public service enterprise;
and
(vi) approve tariffs set for the sale of services.
The public service work organizations are obliged to:
(i) provide continuous and lasting services and, in case of failure
to do so, compensate the consumers for damages incurred by the
lack of service;
(ii) plan the future expansion of services in accordance with the
general development plans of the city;
(iii) provide for public scrutiny of work performed and proposed
programs and projects, and
(iv) maintain and improve the quality of services provided.
12.       Over the next few years, some of the regulatory powers currently
vested in the city will be transferred to Communities of Interest. These
communities will be established by self-management agreement among the work
organizations providing services and the consumers of those services. The
self-management agreements will provide for the regulation of the activities
of the public service work organizations, the establishment of tariffs, and
the planning and financing of future expansion. Establishment of the Communi-
ties of Interest will diminish the role of government in the social and economic
affairs of the community. However, the City Assembly will retain ultimate
authority over the activities delegated.
May 1976



CITY ASSEMBLY OF SARAJEVO
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMMUNE ASSEMBLIES
CENTAR        [ NOVO SARAJEVO          ILIDZA             VOGOSCA
COMMISSIONS                                                                                      INSTITUTES
[    ENVIRONMENT                                    CITY ASSEMBLY            l                     ES
EXECUTIVE BOARD
9 OTHERS     _                                                                               CONSTRUCTION
OF THE CITY
SECRETARIATS
INTERNAL AFFAIRS |NATIONAL DEFENSE        INSPECT!CN           FINANCE             ACTIVITIES           AFFAIRS
CD 
May 1 7 6                                                                                                 World Bank-9794    _



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
EXISTING WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FACILITIES
Water Supply
1.        The original water supply system of the City, supplied by gravity
from the Moscanica spring, was built in 1890. As the need for water increased,
several other mountain sources were added between 1904 and 1954. The Jahorina
springs, the largest and furthest (30 km away) of the mountain springs, were
developed between 1917 and 1923. Groundwater from a well field in the
Sarajevsko Polje (Sarajevo Plain) of the Zeljeznica River, about 12 km away,
was first developed in 1962 and further expanded in 1974. At present, Sarajevo
receives about 33 million cubic meter per year (1050 l/s), more than half of
it comes from the Sarajevsko Polje wells.
2.        Water quality of all sources is generally good; no color, less than
10 mg/l of silicate turbidity and a coliphorm bacilli count of less than 10 per
100 ml of water. However, during heavy rainfalls and periods of snow melting,
hiigher levels of turbidity are recorded in the water from the Karst sediments
of the mountain springs sources. Two of the springs (Moscanica and Tilava)
are provided with filtration plants and supplies from the other springs are
usually discontinued during periods of high turbidity. Bacteriological pollu-
tion has been recently detected in the Sarajevsko Polje wells particularly
during heavy rainfalls. Industrial plants located upstream of the well field
dispose their wastewater into the Zeljeznica River and it is believed that
pollutants from this source are reaching the groundwater in increasing quan-
tities. All water supplies are regularly chlorinated and water samples from
35 points on the distribution system are tested daily to determine the bacter-
iological, physical and chemical quality of the distributed water.
3.        Annual water production from all sources has increased from 16.1 mil-
lion cubic meter (106 m3) in 1960 to 31.5 in 1969. Consumption also increased
from 229 litre per capita per day (1/cd) to 323 1/cd during the same period.
Hlowever, in 1969, the water production and transmission facilities were oper-
ating at design capacity. Because of shortage of funds, the expansion pro-
gram planned for 1969 did not commence until 1973 and the increase in annual
production between 1969 and 1974 was marginal. Consumption dropped to 307 1/cd
in 1974 and water was supplied intermittently to most parts of the city.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7 pages
Population                Water Produced
Year           (000)            106 m3/yr.        1/s     1/cd
1960            193                16.1            570     229
1965            233                26.6            845     313
1969            267                31.5          1,000     323
1970            276                31.9          1,010     316
1971           283                 31.8          1,010     308
1972           291                 32.8          1,040     309
1973            298                32.8          1,040     301
1974            305                34.2          1,090     307
1975            312                39.3          1,250     345
The new facilities comprising 5 drilled wells, 1,000 mm transmission line and
a 20,000 m3 reservoir which were put into operation in December 1974, has
alleviated the water shortages and together with the existing facilities are
expected to meet the water demand of Sarajevo through 1978.
4.        Projections of population, water production and water sales are
shown graphically in Annex 3 and outlined in Annex 9.
5.        At the end of 1974, there were 22,600 connections (of which about
99% were metered) serving about 90% of the population. The number of persons
per connection of about 12 is high due to the fact that a significant per-
centage of the population reside in high-rise apartment buildings which are
served by a few connections. The non-connected population is served from 125
public taps, private wells and small springs. Some industrial enterprises
and small settlements within the city have their own water supply systems.
However, the total yield of all private supplies is very small, estimated at
about 25 l/s (0.8 106 m3/yr).
6.        More than one third of the water produced during the last five years
was unaccounted-for and in 1975 was estimated at 39% of total production. The
high water losses are attributed to the old age of considerable amount of the
distribution system and high system pressure in certain parts of the city.
Water sold was divided about equally between domestic and non-domestic con-
sumptions as follows:
Water       Domestic      Non-Domestic         Unaccounted-for
Produced    Consumption    Consumption               Water
Year     106 m3/)Lr  106 m3/yr        106 mS/yr       106 m3rnyr  % Production
1970        31.9         10.2            10.7            11.0        34.5
1971        31.8         11.1            10.8             9.9        31.1
1972        32.8         11.2            10.4            11.2        34.1
1973        32.8         11.3            10.4            11.1        33.8
1974        34.2         11.1            10.4            12.7        37.1
1975        39.3         12.4            11.6            15.3        38.9



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7 pages
7.        The distribution system is divided into several pressure zones.
However, separation of the pressure zones is incomplete resulting in very
high pressure in portions of the distribution network. Expansion of the sys-
tem was undertaken in the past without adequate planning and numerous small
reservoirs were constructed. More than half of the 44 existing reservoirs
have a capacity of 200 m3 or less each. The older reservoirs are constructed
of masonry concrete while the more recent ones are constructed of reinforced
concrete. The total storage volume of 62,000 m3 amounts to about 45% of the
estimated 1975 maximum daily demand of 134,000 m3/day.
8.        Water from the mountain springs flows by gravity into the city
reservoirs. Groundwater from 11 wells in the Sarajevsko Polje is distributed
to various parts of the city through three main pumping stations and several
booster stations. The main pumping stations with the characteristics of each
pump are as follows:
-------------- Pump Characteristics -------------
Pumping         '1        Capacity        Head       Motor Power
Station      No.'            1/s            m              KW
Bacevo        2 + 1          320            21            125
A. Most       1 + 1          210            70            209
2 + 1          160           48            103
1 + 1          70           150            176
Centar        1 + 1          120            77            140
1 + 0         194            64            150
/1   (2 + 1) indicates 2 operating and 1 standby.
All pumps are electrically driven and were manufactured in Yugoslavia. None
of the pumping stations is equipped with standby diesel or other fuel type
power generators.
9.        The distribution system consisted of some 330 km of pipes at the end
of 1974 as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7 pages
--------- Length in meters        -----         Total
Diameter         Cast Iron         Steel         Asbestos         Length
40            28,653            -                -           28,653
50               626            -               254             880
60            24,548            -               975          25,523
80            37,505            -            30,402          67,907
100            32,438          2,355          46,174          80,967
125            11,532            250           1,766          12,548
150            18,295             30          10,735          29,060
200            24,976             53           6,575          31,604
250             2,077             72           2,161           4,310
300             6,644            -             2,252           8,896
350             8,010            763             -             8,773
400             6,359            -               146           6,505
500             3,086            -                             3,086
700               -           11,000                          11,000
1,000               -           10 400             -            10,400
Total  204,749         24,923          101,440         330,112
In addition, there are some 50 km of galvanized steel pipes, mostly 1/2 inch,
which are regarded as service-connections. Most of the distribution pipes
are very small. Only 125 km (about one-third of the pipe network) are larger
than 100 mm diameter. Most of the small distribution pipes in the old part
of the city (about 100 km) were installed 50 or more years ago and are badly
corroded.
Sewerage
10.       The two cast-in-place concrete main collectors along the right bank
of the Miliacka River, constructed between 1902 and 1914, were sized for sewage
from the city's population of 60,000 as well as storm water from the lower
areas of the old city. Sewer laterals were also installed during that period
and were constructed of concrete and clay pipes. Major expansion of the ori-
ginal system was undertaken between 1954 and 1960. The present sewer system
comprises about 250 km of collectors and sewer laterals, shown on IBRD map
11459R, and about 100 km of house connections. The network includes separate
sewers (sanitary sewers to remove sewage and storm sewers to remove drainage
water) and combined sewers to remove sewage as well as drainage water. The
separate system covers an area of about 530 hectares (ha) which includes the
city slopes, the Sarajevsko Polje along the banks of the Zeljeznica River and
Vogosca along the banks of the Josanica River. The combined system covers an
area of about 770 ha mostly along the banks of the Miljacka River.
11.       At the end of 1974 about 17,000 buildings, mostly in the densely
populated center of Sarajevo, were connected to the sewer system serving about
70% of the population. Some 20,000 non-connected households within the city
discharge their sewage either directly into nearby streams and drainage
channels or dispose of it in the ground using septic tanks and/or soak pits.
A typical septic tank in Sarajevo is a lined or unlined hole in the ground



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7 pages
one to three meters deep with a concrete cover. In several sections of the
town, the soil is relatively impermeable and the septic tanks have to be
emptied periodically by pumping. This service is provided by an enterprise
called Rad 1/ which charges Din 250-300 (US$14 to $17) per truckload of
about 5 cubic meters.
12.       The capacity of the existing sewer system is inadequate to meet
the requirements of the connected population and flooding of low areas occurs
after heavy rainfalls. Even during periods of light rainfall, the main col-
lectors and many of the sewer laterals flow under pressure causing an increased
seepage of sewage to the surrounding ground. Furthermore, because of their
age, many of the sewer pipes have deteriorated badly and infiltration in large
portion of the system is excessive.
13.       The main collectors in Sarajevo discharge sewage and storm water
directly into the Miljacka River. Drainage water from areas served by the
separate system is discharged either directly into the Miljacka River or into
canalized tributaries or creeks. Some of the canalized creeks in the old
part of the city are covered and discharged into the main collectors. At
present there are 23 points of discharge into Miljacka River. Sewage from
settlements in the Sarajevsko Polje is discharged into the Zeljeznica River
through a principal sewer which passes through the Sarajevsko Polje ground-
water protection area. To reduce the seepage of sewage into the water supply
source, this sewer line needs to be relocated. Sewage from the Vogosca settle-
ment is discharged into the Josanica River, a tributary to the Bosna River.
Public Health Aspects
14.       The storm water and sewage from the city flows into the Miljacka
River without treatment or disinfection. During the summer, the sewage flow
is about three times the minimum flow of the River. At this time, the Miljacka
has the characteristics of an open sewage canal and is the source of an unbear-
able stench and a serious health hazard. Furthermore, the city hospitals,
i.e., the surgical clinics the infectious disease pavillion, the tuberculosis
pavillion, etc., discharge their extremely dangerous wastes into the sewage
network. The discharge of untreated sewage to the Miljacka River is a health
hazard not only to Sarajevo but also to the communities along the Bosna River
of which the Miljacka is a tributary.
15.       A more serious problem, however, is the infiltration of sewage from
leaking sewers into corroded water supply pipes. In spite of the regular
chlorination of the city's water supplies, bacteriological pollution of the
distributed water is detected frequently, particularly in the old part of the
city where water pipes are badly corroded and very often in close proximity
to the sewers. Waterborne diseases are an ever-present threat to the citizens
1/   Rad is also responsible for solid waste collection and disposal.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7 pages
of Sarajevo. Some typical waterborne bacterial diseases which could be
transmitted by this route are typhoid, cholera, paratyphoid and bacillary
dysentery. Waterborne viral diseases include poliomyelitis and infectious
hepatitis.
16.       An epidemic of diarrhea was reported in 1955, when 5,600 persons
were reported ill and two of them died. The epidemic was caused by infiltra-
tion of sewage from the hospital into the water supply system. A recent
diarrhea epidemic caused by sewage infiltration also was reported in 1973 when
2,477 persons were infected but none died. In 1970, an epidemic of infectious
hepatitis struck the city and in certain areas which lack adequate water sup-
ply and sanitation such outbreaks recur frequently. Because of water shortages
and frequent pipe failures in recent years, there have been several epidemics
of hepatitis among school children, (four schools in 1971, five in 1972 and
four in 1973). Records of the Department of Hygiene and Epidemiology of the
Sarajevo Health Institute show the following reported cases of waterborne
disease for the period 1967-1973:
Number of      Treated in Hospital       Number of
Disease                    Patients       Number          Days        Deaths
Hepatitis Virosa            4,155          1,850           30            4
Typhus Abdominalis            165            131           30           1
Paratyphus A & B               38             34           30
Disenteria                  4,033            739           14            1
Enterocolities Acuta          548             28           11
Intoxicatio Alimentaris       827            461           11
Salmonellosis                 252             90           14
Water Quality Standards for the Bosna and Miljacka Rivers
17.       The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina issued regulations in 1967,
1968 and 1969 concerning the "Protection of Waters, Classification of Waters,
and Categorization of Streams." The regulations define measures to limit the
release of harmful materials into the Republic's waterways and provide for con-
struction of plants and equipment to process wastewater arid reduce pollution.
Further, four classes of waterways for surfacewater, groundwater and lake waters
were established according to the purpose for which the water is intended. Class
I designation represents clean, unpolluted water while Class IV is a highly pol-
luted stream. The Republic Commission for Water Management, which is responsible
for implementation of the regulations, has established the following limits for
some of the indicators for each class of stream:
Stream Clases
Indicator                      I         II          III          IV
Suspended Matter (mg/l)             (10       630         S80
Total Residue (mg/l)              4 350    <1,000      41,500
Dissolved Oxygen (mg/l)        I     8         } 6         O4         ;0.50
BOD5  (mg/l)                        4 2          4         4 7
PH                               6.8-8.5   6.8-8.5    6.0-9.0          -



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7 pages
18.       The Bosna River is the major river flowing through the Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Its source is a large spring in the western portion
of the Sarajevo metropolitan area. There are three major tributaries which
join the Bosna in the vicinity of Sarajevo - the Dobrinja River, the Zeljeznica
River, and the Miljacka River. According to the Republic's stream categories
the Bosna River from its source until the confluence of the Zeljeznica River
should be Class I, from its confluence with the Zeljeznica to the confluence
with the Miljacka should be Class II, and from the confluence with the Miljacka
until joining the Sava River should be Class III. The Miljacka is to be a
Class II stream until reaching the point where the two main collectors from
Sarajevo discharge. From this point Class III standards are to be met until
the confluence with the Bosna River.
19.       Stream surveys of water quality based on physical, chemical, and
biological indicators have shown the quality of the Bosna River to be declining
from year to year, particularly below the confluence with the Miljacka River.
The Miljacka River upstream of the city of Sarajevo is slightly overloaded
with organic matter, but does not show signs of degradation of the natural
biological quality. Physical and chemical data gathered below the city, how-
ever, indicate the Miljacka River is no more than an open sewer for many months
of the years and should be designated a Class IV stream.
20.       Predictions of water quality for the Bosna and Miljacka Rivers with
and without wastewater treatment have been made using a pollution equivalents
technique which indicates the correct trends but is certainly not rigorous.
The conclusion of this analysis is that with secondary treatment for Sarajevo,
the Bosna River will fall in Class II/III as required by law. The Miljacka
River downstream of the city will fall in Class III as required but it will
take several years to meet Class II standards for the Miljacka through the
city because of uncontrolled wastewater discharges.
May 1S76



ANNE 
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECTIONS OF POPULATION, WATER PRODUCTION, WATER SALES
AND WATER LOSSES
60                                                                                             400
56
14-PROJECTIONS
.E\e
-0   -a cs                                                    X             *t
40
E 44       CO '-HH  
0
36 -            /
32    .   ...............
28 -
I     ,~        *'
24 _                           -,
20                   I  I        I        a           I     I        I     I     I           I 200
100                              I                              I    I                         100
9  % POPULATION CONNECTED (Water)
90 -                                                                                          90
80                                                       k,Nf8
I    PLAT-o IO  C
6070                          P.O. .............                                              7 -80
ci 60                                                                                              60
z    50-                                                                                            50
I     WT   LOSSES
30                         I                                                                  30
14-PROJECTIONS
20           ACTUAL                                                 -I 20
10                                                            f I  I  I                       10
1971       1973        1975         1977        1979        1981        1983        1985
World Bank-9580
May 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAYTTA
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
1.        The proposed project aims at improving the water supply facilities
and abating the water pollution in the Sarajevo area. The project comprises
rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and sewer systems and cons-
truction of a sewage treatment plant. Improvement of the water supply facil-
ities is needed in order to provide safe and adequate supply of water. Reha-
bilitation of the existing inadequate sewer system and construction of a new
sewage treatment plant is essential for safeguarding the public health and
abating the pollution of the Miljacka and Bosna Rivers. The project compo-
nents were selected from among several alternatives as the least cost solution
to meet the projected requirements. Cost estimates are provided in Annex 5
and construction schedule in Annex 6. Description of the project components
are as follows:
IWIATER SUPPLY
2.        The proposed water supply facilities are part of a master plan to
expand the production facilities at the Sarajevsko Polje and to rehabilitate
and extend the distribution network. Feasibility studies, prepared by Vodovod
with the assistance of local and foreign consultants, call for the construction
of wells, transmission lines, reservoirs, pumping stations, distribution lines
and replacement of worn-out pipes and service connections. The proposed facil-
ities are designed to provide Sarajevo with an adequate supply of water through
1985. The area served by the expanded system would be approximately twice that
served by the present system. The proposed water supply facilities are shown
on IBRD Map 11458R and detailed below.
Water Resources
3.        According to recent hydrological studies carried out by the Insti-
tute for Water Engineering (Sarajevo), the reliable reserve of the existing
sources is adequate to meet the projected water requirements of the city by
1985. Though the safe yields of the mountain springs are fully utilized,
additional volumes of groundwater can be obtained by construction of new wells
and/or collection galleries in the Sarajevsko Polje. The project includes
development of an infiltration gallery along the banks of the Bosna River
which is estimated to yield about 600 l/s. The estimated maximum daily de-
mand to be provided for 1975 and 1985 is as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6 pages
Maximum Daily                                    Safe
Requirement            Source of                Yield
Year          1/s                  Supply                   1/s
1975         1500            Mountain Springs               300
Sarajevsko Polje
- Existing Wells              650
- Wells completed 1974        550
1500
1985         2150            Mountain Springs               300
Sarajevsko Polje
- Existing Wells              650
- Wells completed 1974        600
- Proposed Gallery            600
2150
The studies further recommend that the water requirements of the city for the
period 1985-2000 should be supplied from surface water of Zeljeznica River
and its tributaries. The Zeljeznica River catchment area is well protected,
hydrologically suitable and located at an appropriate elevation. However,
hydrogeological studies are necessary to investigate alternative sites for
impounding the water. The prospects for further exploitation of the ground-
water sources in the Sarajevsko Polje also need to be investigated. The
project includes provision for hydrogeological studies and preparation of a
water resource master plan to meet the city requirements through the year 2000.
4.        To safeguard against pollution of the groundwater sources, Vodovod
have proposed enactment of a municipal ordinance to establish four protection
zones in the Sarajevsko Polje catchment area with defined land use limita-
tions. Vodovod will undertake, during the project construction period, land
purchases and relocation of about 120 residences which are in close proximity
to existing wells.
Reservoirs
5.        Six new reservoirs will be added and three existing reservoirs will
be expanded to provide for an additional storage capacity of 24,500 m3 as
follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6 pages
New Reservoirs
Igman                     5000 m3
Buca Potok 1              1000 m3
Lukavac                   3000 m3
Tilava                    1000 m3
Skenderija                8000 m3
Hatonj                     500 m3
Reservoirs to be Expanded
Vraca                     1000 m3
Bjelave                   2000 m3
Podhrastovi               3000 m3
The total storage volume of 86,500 m3 which will be available upon project
completion would amount to about 50% of the 1985 maximum daily demand. The
proposed reservoirs are also needed to allow proper separation of the dis-
tribution system pressure zones and to provide adequate volume of water to
meet the hourly fluctuations in consumption within each zone. All reservoirs
will be constructed underground using reinforced concrete.
Pumping Station
6.        Infiltration gallery alongside the Bosna river and one booster pump-
ing station will be constructed and four existing stations expanded. It is
proposed to use electrically driven centrifugal pumps as follows:
New Stations
Infiltration Gallery           5 pumps 100 Kw each
Hrasno                         2 pumps 60 Kw each
4 pumps 100 Kw each
Existing Stations
Alipsan Most                   3 pumps 200 Kw each
Center                         3 pumps 200 Kw each
Stup                           3 pumps 100 Kw each
Becevo                         3 pumps 200 Kw each
3 pumps 180 Kw each
Distribution System Extensions
7.        Some 31.4 km of water mains will be added to the distribution net-
work to improve services in existing areas and to provide water for new de-
velopments. Preliminary designs call for pipes as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6 pages
Pipe Material             Diameter (mm)       Length (m)
Steel                       1000                  300
900                 300
800                 800
700               6,050
600               1,620
500               7,250
Cast Iron                    400                4,150
300               7,040
200               3L900
Total                               31,410
Steel pipes will be provided with cathodic protection to safeguard against
external corrosion.
8.        Vodovod will finance construction of distribution pipes (100 mm and
150 mm diameter) and service connections in the new developments.
Renovation of Distribution Network
9.        About 180 km of the small diameter pipes (80 mn or less) are 50 to
80 years old. These pipes, mostly in the old quarter of the city, are badly
corroded, leaking, operate at reduced pressure and are inadequate to meet
present requirements. Vodovod is continuing their program of identifying and
replacing corroded pipes to reduce water losses and improve the system.
10.       The project provides for replacement of about 51 km of corroded
distribution pipes and about 5000 obsolete service connections. The work will
be done by force account or by small local contractors.
Metering and Teleme     System
11.       Master meters will be installed on major water mains and existing
worn-out master meters will be replaced. A telemetry control system linking
major water sources, pumping stations, reservoirs, treatment plants and the
control center at Bacevo pumping station will be installed.
SEWERAGE
12.       The present sewer system, mostly old and worn-out, includes sanitary
sewers to remove sewage and combined sewers to remove sewage and drainage
water. Several alternatives for collection of sewage and drainage water were
investigated including separate sanitary sewers, combined sewers and various
possible combinations of the two systems. A city-wide sanitary sewer system
and a sewage treatment plant was the least cost solution. The existing com-
bined sewers will be gradually converted to stormwater, sewers and eventually
all drainage water will be discharged directly to the Miljacka River. The



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6 pages
proposed main sewers are designed for the projected sewage flows of the year
2000 while the principal units of the treatment plant are designed for the
1985 flows with provisions for expansion. The proposed sewerage facilities
are shown on IBRD map 11459R and detailed in the following paragraphs.
Sewer System Expansion and Rehabilitation
13.       Preliminary designs provide for the construction of five collectors
to receive sewage from existing and proposed sewer laterals and direct it to
the sewage treatment plant. Construction of sewer laterals in new areas,
replacement of worn-out sewers and construction of sanitary sewers in areas
presently served by combined sewers will be made gradually. Meantime, several
stormwater overflows will be included with collectors along the banks of the
Miljacka River to provide relief during periods of heavy rainfall until sepa-
ration of the stormwater sewers are completed. Sewers layout, capacities and
diameters will be reviewed during final engineering. Data on collectors, main
sewer and laterals included in the project are as follows:
A.   Collectors and Main Sewers
Diameter (cm)             Length (m)
50                     2,200
60                     6,200
70                     7,150
80                     2,900
90                     1,350
100                     2,550
110                     2,800
120                     3,700
130                       500
140                     2,700
150                     1,100
33,150
B.   Reconstruction of sewers in areas presently served by combined system:
Diameter (cm)             Length (m)
30                     2,150
40                       150
50                       450
60                       550
90/120                   550
140                       600
4,450
The project also provides for replacement of some 2,000 service connections,
mostly in the old section of the city.



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6 pages
Sewage Treatment Plant
14.       Several investigations were undertaken by Vodovod and their consult-
ants to determine the present sewage organic and hydraulic loadings and to
assess the probable effects of sewage treatment on the water quality of the
Bosna and Miljacka Rivers. A preliminary investigation of the city's indus-
trial and institutional wastes was also made to identify those that would
require in-plant treatment prior to disposal to the sewer system.
15.       Professor Van der Emde of the University of Vienna and consultants
from the Civil Engineering Faculty of the University of Sarajevo studied
various sewage treatment and disposal process using the data provided by the
foregoing investigations. The consultants concluded that in order to meet
the Republic's water quality standards for the Bosna and Miljacka Rivers and
because of the relatively low assimilative capacity of these rivers during
periods of minimum flow, a high degree of sewage treatment is necessary. A
sewage treatment plant employing the activated sludge process, located near
the confluence of the Bosna and Miljacka Rivers, was recommended by consult-
ants. The sewage effluent will be discharged to the Bosna River where more
dilution water is available. Primary treatment (screens and comminutor) was
recommended for the small sewage flow from the Vogosca settlement.
16.       The sewage treatment will be performed by means of a biological
process, the activated sludge process, in which most of the pollution in
sewage is transferred to bacteria mass and taken out from the sewage. Coarse
materials are removed by screens and/or comminutors, sand settles in an aerated
grit chamber and settleable solids are retained in a primary sedimentation tank.
The biological treatment will be performed in an aeration tank and sewage
effluent is separated from the activated sludge in the final sedimentation
tanks. Primary and excess sludge will be digested in an aerobic digester and
pumped to the proposed sanitary landfill at the site of the existing dump.
Dewatering will be undertaken on belt filters and the dried sludge disposed
of at the landfill. The supernate from the filters and landfill leachate will
be returned to the treatment plant for further processing.
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Cost Estimates - January 1976
Project Items                                     Pipes and Equipment                          Installation and Civil Works                               Total Costs
Local          Fo1rign        Total              Local         Foreign        Total               Local         Foreign         Total
Din (000)                                      Din (000)                                        (Din 000)
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
1.  Infiltration Gallery and River Regulation      1,050         1,950          3,000               5,600         2,400          8,000              6,650          4,350          11,000
2. Pumping Stations                                6,270         6,270         12,540               3,700         1,580          5,280              9,970          7,850          17,820
3. Distribution Network Extension                 20,320        20,320         40,640              33,080        14,180         47,260              53,400        34,500          87,900
4. Distribution Pipes Replacement                 19,205         19,205        38,410              63,200        27,090         90,290              82,405        46,295         128,700
5. Reservoirs                                       -              -             -                 46,510        19,930         66,440              46,510        19,930          66,440
6. Telemetry System, Power and
Cathodic Protection                           4,430        17,740         22,170               3,350         1,440          4,790               7,780        19,180          26,960
7. Enterprise Headquarter                           -              -             -                 22,350         9,580         31,930              22,350         9,580          31,930
8. Office Equipment                                  890          3,540         4,430                -             -              -                    890         3,540           4,430
9. Water Resource Investigation                      890          3,540         4,430               9,580          -             9,580              10,470         3,540          14,010
10. Engineering Services and
Training                                       -              -             -                 26,670        13,130         39,800              26,670        13,130          39,800
Sub-total                                    53,055        72,565        125,620             214,040        89,330        303,370             267,095       161,895         428,990
11. Physical Contingencies (15%)                   7,960         10,885        18,845              32,105        13,400         45,505              40,065        24,285          64,350
Sub-total                                    61,015        83,450        144,465             246,145       102,730        348,875             307,160       186,180         493,340
12.  Price Increases (33.5%)                       13,876         18,979        32,855              93,265        38,925        132,190             102,759        62,286         165,045
Total Water Supply                           74.891        102.429       177.320             339,410       141655         481,.065            409.919       248.466         658.385
SEWERACE SYSTEM
1. Collectors and Sewers                          28,090         22,980        51,070              89,400        38,310        127,710             117,490         61,290        178,780
2. Reconstruction Sewers and                       4,280          1,830         6,110              12,840         5,500         18,340              17,120          7,330         24,450
Service Connections
3.  Treatment Facilities                          39,000        111,420       150,420             176,680        75,720        252,400             215,680        187,140        402,820
4.  Sludge Disposal Site                           4,435          4,435          8,870             13,410          5,745        19,155              17,845         10,180          28,025
5.  Engineering Services and                        -              -             -                 25,835         17,220        43,055              25,835         17,220         43,055
Training
Sub-total                                    75,805        140,665       216,470             318,165       142,495        460,660             393,970       283,160         677,130
6. Physical Contingencies (15%)                   11,370         21,100        32,470              47,725         21,375        69,100              59,095         42,475         101,570
Sub-total                                    87,175        161,765       248,940             365,890       163,870        529,760             453,065        325,635        778,700
7.  Price Increases (36.7%)                       22,426         41,614        64,040             152,963         68,507       221,470             166,116        119,394         285,510
Total Sewerage                              109,601        203,379       312,980             518,853       232,377        751,230             619,181        445,029     1, 064,210
Total Project Costs                         184.492        305.808       490300                             374.032     1.232,295           1_029,10O        693,495     1, 722,595
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Contract 1                                                    1
Category                                                              1 976             1 977              1978               1979               1980
|  WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
1                  SUPPLY                                              I!t amIiil            r
INSTAI tATION
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK EXTENSION
1                  SUPPLy                                       zaz__n    ni.,uu             _
1                  INSTALLATION                                 m               111101i i.1 1_  _
2       DISTRIBUTION PIPES REPLAC71rFrT                         sin m   iL      l      u    m                 
1       RFSERVOIRS PUMPING STATONS AND SOURCE REGULATION        m_____  uIIII III
1      TELEMETRY SYSTEM AND POWER                                     ____in   i       uu..lut
1       ENTERPRISE BUILDING                                                      _    11ligii1,.
II-SEWERAGE SYSTEM
COLLECTORS AND SEWERS
1                  SUPPLY                                       _      m_ iij  j "I
1                  INSTALLATION                                  _rm  ni_    tI lEiullil
I  2     C^^.CCSTRIICTICN S- W RS A-" ^                    j -   - O
SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES
1                  SUPPLY
1                  CIVIL WORKS                                        _        _I                                               _-
2      SLUDGE DISPOSAL SITE                                                                       _ _____1____________
_ =MM  DESIGNS, TENDER DOCUMENTS
i3**illII TENDERING
SUPPLY, MANUFACTURE OR CONSTRUCTION                                                                                    WoRld Bank-1 5740
1 CONTRACT FOR INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
2 CONTRACT FOR LOCAL BIDDING OR FORCE ACCOUNT
lV'y 1976



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Cumulative Disbursements at End of Quarter
and Quarter                   -US$ Million------
1976/77
September 30, 1976                              nil
December 31, 1976                               1.0
March 31, 1977                                  1.5
June 30, 1977                                   2.5
1977/78
September 30, 1977                              4.0
December 31, 1977                               6.0
March 31, 1978                                  9.0
June 30, 1978                                  12.0
1978/79
September 30, 1978                             15.0
December 31, 1978                              20.0
March 31, 1979                                 25.0
June 30, 1979                                  30.0
1979/80
September 30, 1979                             33.0
December 31, 1979                              36.0
March 31, 1980                                 38.0
June 30, 1980                                  40.0
1980/81
September 30, 1980                             42.0
December 31, 1980                              44.0
March 31, 1981                                 45.0
May 1976



AtJEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
ORGANIZATION CHART OF PREDUZECE VODOVOD I KANALIZACIJA SARAJEVO
C yA Si 'lb! Y
WORKERS COUNCIL
VODOOD   ANAL IZACIJA
IORECTOR  GENERAL
11                        1
SANWAR ORK NSP'                    WO|ORKERSCOHNCIL P                                                                              |0RKERS COUNCILS
DEPARTMENT  OETARTSIENT      DEPARTMENT                                                                      DEPARTMENT                DEPARTMENOF
|DVODSTRIBUTIONIRECTOR                                                 | CONSULTANT        ADMINISTRATION |                        |       orA I
I 11    1                                                        |  i                                      iiI  
DEPARTMENTRMNTDPATEN                                                                                                           EPRMETDEATMN
XIANAGER                                          ADMIN SrRAT4ON |                            MANaGER~~~~~PERSNNE
VOD5t'ODMAN sGE HKHO                                                                                            KANALIO  Z CONTRCTO
DEPARTMENTENTEPARTMENT
TUCTCNSPRI                 ACONTN                     ECON M                   COMM RCI AL                LEAAN
SION DEPARTMENT   DEPARTMENT           ~DEPAR IENT                IDEPARITMEINT         |DPRMN
ata  1976
WAVER B-Vk-9470 IR)



APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Preduzece Vodovod i Kanalizaciia Saraievo
Income Statements for the Years 1973-1983
WATER SUPPLY
(Din Millions)
Year Ending December 31               1973           1974         1975           1976           1977          1978           1979           1980           1981           1982          1983
-----Actual------           ------------------------------------------- Estimated ---------------------- ---------------------------------
Production (million m3)               32.8           34.2         39.3           41.4          42.6           42.9           43.6          44.4           45.2           46.8           48.7
Consumption (million m3)
Domestic                           11.3          11.1          12.4           13.6          14.4           15.2          16.3           16.8           17.5           18.2           18.9
other                              10.4          10.4          11.6           12.5          13.3           14.0           15.1          15.6           16.2           16.9           17.6
Total                              21.7          21.5          24.0          26.1           27.7           29.2           31.4          32.4           33.7           35.1           36.5
Unaccounted-for Water (%)              34             37           39             37             35            32             28             27             26             25             25
Population Served (7%)                 91             91           92             92             92            92             93             93             93             94             94
Average Price (Dinars per m3)          2.1            2.5          3.6            4.4            5.2           5.9            6.3            6.7            6.8            7.0            7.1
Revenue
Water Sales                        44.7          55.4          85.4          116.0         143.9          173.1          197.4         215.7          229.6          244.4          259.2
Other Income                        9.1            9.3          9.6           10.D           11.1          12.5           14.0           15.6          17.4            19.3          20.0
Total Revenue                      53.8          64.7          95.0         126.0          155.0          185.6          211.4         231.3          247.0          263.7          279.2
Operating Costs
Wages                              13.1           17.0         22.5          27.2            32.1          36.9           41.3           46.3           51.8           58.0           65.0
Common Services                     5.4            7.7         10.4           12.6          14.9           17.1           19.2           21.5           24.1           27.0          30.2
Electricity                         3.6           5.3           9.0           11.4          13.6           15.6           17.9          19.7           21.9            24.3          27.0
Maintenance                         2.6            1.7          2.5            3.7            4.2           5.4            7.1            8.7            9.1            9.6           10.0
Other Expenditure                   2.9            2.0          6.8            8.2            9.7          11.2           12.6           14.1           15.8           17.7           19.8
Total Oneratine Costs              27.6           33.7         51.2           63.1           74.5          86.2           98.1          110.3          122.7          136.6          152.0
Surplus before Depreciation and
Interast                           26.2          31.0          43.8           62.9          80.5           99.4          113.3          121.0          124.3          127.1          127.2
Depreciation                           6.4            8.3          10.6          11-1           13.6           18.0          22.8           27.1           27.5           28.3           28.5
Surplus before Interest               19.8           22.7         33.2           51.8           66.9           81.4          90.5           93.9           96.8           98.8           98.7
Interest                               1.2            2.4           2.3           3.7            3.7            3.7            3.3           3.1           33.4           32.5           31.7
Ne-t Revenue                       18.6           20.3         309            48.1           63.2          77.7           87.2           90.8           63.4           66.3           67.0
Rate ow  Peturn on Average Net
F5-d Assets                        10.1           11.3         11.6           13.8           14.2           12.3          10.4            9.0            8.8            8.9            6.9
May 15%6



APPRUELSL 1'J
SA,AJE    .X1 LR SEIPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Predsuzece \odovod i Kanalizacija Sarajevo
Income statements for the Years 1973-1983
SEWERACE
(Din Millions)
Year Ending December 31                 1973           1974            1975           1976          1977           1978           1979           1980            1981            1982             1983
_-- Actual------              -___________----____-_-- ---------Estimated-----------------------------------------------------------------
Water Surcharged (million m3
Domestic                              -            11.0           11.7           13.1          13.9           14.7            15.8           16.3           16.9             17.6            18.3
Other                                 -             8.9           10.2           11.2          11.9           12.5            13.4           13.8           14.5             15.0            15.5
Total                               20.1           19.9           21.9           24.3          25.8           27.2            29.2           30.1           31.4             32.6            33.8
Population Served (%)                    70              70             71             72            73             75             77              79             81               83              85
Revenue
Sarcharge on Water                  13.9           22.0           40.2           53.2          66.0           79.4            95.9          110.0          116.7            123.7           130.7
Other Income                         3.4            2.9            5.6            6.6           7.2            8.1             9.2           10.0           10.8             11.5            12.2
Total Revenue                    17.3            24.9           45.8           59.8          73.2           87.5          105.1           120.0          127.5           135.2            142.9
Operating Crsts
Wages                                4.9            5.7            8.7           10.5          12.4           14.3            lb.,           18.9            21.2            23.7             26.5
Common Services                      l.e            1.9            3.5            4.2           5.0             5.7            6.4            7.2             8.0             9.0             10.1
Electricity                           .l             .1             .2              .8            .9            1.0            4.3            5.0             5.6             6.3              7.1
Maintenaec<.                         1. 1            .6            4.1            1.2           1.3             1.5            3.0            6.0             9.4            10.5             10.7
Other Expenditure                    2.2             .8            4.5             5.4          6.4             7.4            9.3           10.4            11.7            13.0             14.6
Total Operating Costs            10.1             9.1           18.0           22.1          26.0           29.9            39.6           47.5           55.9             62.5            69.0
Surplus before Depreciation and
Interest                          7.2            15.8           27.8           37.7          47.2           57.6            65.5           72.5           71.6             72.7             73.9
Depreciation                              2-9            2.9            3.5            3.6           3.9             6.1           13.2           27.7            35.4            37.5             38.0
Surplus before Interest                  4.3            12.9           24.3           34.1          43.3           51.5            52.3           44.8           36.2             35.2             35.9
Interest                                   .1             .3             .3             .1            .1              .1             .1             .1           50.0             48.8             47.6
Net Revenue                          4.2           12.6           24.0           34.0          43.2           51.4            52.2           44.7           (13.8)          (13.6)           (11.7)
Rate of Return on Average Net             6.5           18.3           28.1           31.8          34.6            21.9           10.0            4.8             3.1              2.9             2.9
Fixed Assets
'ayv 197h



APPRAISALL OP
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERACE PROJECT
YIIrnSLAVIA
Preduoece Vodovod i IanaliszaCija Serajevo
Consolidated Income Statements for the Years 1973-1983
WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE COMPONENTS
(Din Millions)
Year Ending Dece.ber 31                1973          1974         1975         1976         1977           1978          1979           1980           1981           1982           1983
------Actual -             -----------------------------------------Estimtated --------------------- ---------------------------------------
Revenue
Water Supply                      53.8           64.7         95.0        126.0        155.0          185.6         211.4          231.3          247.0          263.7          279.2
Sewerage                          17.3           24.9         45.8        59.8          73.2           87.5         105.1          120.0          127.5          135.2          142.9
Total                          71.1           89.6        140.8       185.8         228.2          273.1         316.5          351.3          374.5         398.9          422.z
Operating Costs
water Supply                       27.6          33,7         51.2         63.1         74.5           86.2          98.1          110.3          122.7          136.6          152.0
Seerage                           10.1            9.1         18.0        22.1          26.0           29.9          39.6           47.5          _55.9           62.5           69.0
Total                          37.7           42.8         69.2        85.2         100.5          116.1         137.7          157.8          178.6         199.1          221.0
Surplus before Depreclation
and Interest
Water Supply                       26.2          31.0         43.6         62.9          80.5          99.4         113.3          121.0          124.3          127.1          127.2
Sewerage                            7.2          15.8         27.8         37.7         47.2           57.6          65.5           72.5           71.6           72.7           73.9
Total                          33.4           46.8         71.6       100.6         127.7          157.0         178.8          193.5          195.9          199.8          201.1
Depreciation
Water Supply                        6.4            8.3        10.6         11.1          13.6          18.0          22.8           27.1           27.5           28.3           28.5
Sewerage                            2.9            2.9         3.5          3.6          3.9            6.1          13.2           27.7           35.4           37.5           38.0
Total                           9.3           11.2         14.1         14.7         17.5           24.1          36.0           54.8           62.9           65.8           66.5
Surplus before Interest
Water Supply                       19.8           22.7        33.2         51.8          66.9          81.4          90.5           93.9           96.8           98.8           98.7
Sewrage                             4.3          12.9         24.3         34.1         .3 3           51.5          52.3           44.8           36.2           35.2           35.9
Total                          24.1           35.6         57.5         85.9        110.2          132.9         142.8          138.7          133.0          134.0          134.6
Interest
Water 8upply                        1.2            2.4         2.3          3.7           3.7            3.7          3.3            3.1           33.4           32.5            31.7
Sewerage                             .1             .3          .3           ..1           .1_                         .1             .1           50.0           48.8           47.6
Total                           1.3            2.7          2.6          3.8          3.8            3.8           3.4            3.2           83.4           81.3           71.3
Net Reveoue
Water Supply                       18.6           20.3        30.9         48.1          63.2           77.7         87.2           90.8           63.4           66.3           67.0
Sewerage                            4.2           12.6        24.0         34.0          43.2           51.4         52.2           44.7          (13.9)          (13.6)         (11.7)
Tota1                          22.8           32.9         54.9         52.1         106.4         129.1         139.4          135.5           49.6           52.7           55.3
Rate of Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets
Water Supply                       10.1           11.3        11.6         13.8          14.2           12.3          10.4            9.0            8.8            8.9            8.9
Sewerage                            6.5          18.3         28.1         31.8          34.6           21.9         10.0            4.8            3.1            2.9             2.9
Water Supply & Sewer-ae             9.2           13.1        15.4         17.8          18.5           14.8          10.2            7.0            5.6            5.7            5.8
May 1976



A2PRAISAL OF
SARAJLVO WATER SUFFLY AND S6WERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Pr-duzec. Vodovod i                  --anaSz3a Sarajevo
Cash FtoO  St -e"ets for rho Y'-r  1973 - 1983
TeYr Endin6 Dere-ber 31                             1973         1974          1975         1976         1977         1978           1979         1980           1976- 80           1981            1982           1983
---- At .-1   -----  -   ---------------------------        -------E lid-------------------------------------------------
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal C.sh Gen-ratton
Water Supply                                      26.2         31.0         43.8          62.9         80.5         99.4           113.3        121.0             477.1           124.3           127.1          127.2
S-Rrge                                            7.2..        15.0         27.8          37.7         47.2         97.6            82.5         72.2             280.3            71.6     -     72.7            73.9
T0101                                           33.4          46.8         71.6        100.6         127.7        157.0          178.8         193.5             757.6           195.9          199.8           201.1
1.ans
Etitin  L-en,                                    6.6          -           36.5           -            -            _- _                                                         15.0            10.0            10.0
Propo.ed CRD Lo.                                    -           -            -            23.0        123.9        171.8          276.3         215.3             810.0           -                -               -
frapo-ed L..aI BDak Loans                           .                        -             -                       103.0           39.8           9.3             152.1           _- 
Total                                             6.6          _           36.5         23.0         123.9        274.8          315.8         224.6             92.1            15.0            10.0            10.0
C.pit11 C.ot.ibutiooo
RNpoblir Water FPnd                                 -           -           -              -           25.0         25.0           40.0          10.0             100.0                            -
City Asse.bly bDdget                              42.4         51.5         13.0           -           17.0         17.0            16.0         -                 90.0           _                _               _
Sonoir   Poed F                                                 -            -             -           30.0         70.0            50.0         .                10.0           _
SiPo Prop-ratio- Food                                           .           2Q             -           15.0         63.8           35.0          20.0             1S5.0           _                _               _
Total                                           42.4          91.5         33.0           -           87.0        177.0          141.0          30.0             435.0           _                _
[aRene -- Dacreasel So Corrant
LL,bOllaes                                        1.7.tz       16.4          287)         25.1         74.0         53.0            16.0       (113.0)             55.1           (10.0)           5.0             1.0
I.)TAL SOURCES OF FUNDSO                            8 4.1       114.7        116.4        148.7         412.6        161 .          651.6    _ 33                2.20 9.3            10.9  214M22.1
APPLXICATIO OilFUNDSB
ProJ1et E9seaditoree
wete.  SopPly                                       -                                     32.1        153.9        209.5           197.6         65.3             658.4
Seosrege                                                                     -                       j-8           36 6 3 7                     168.2           1 04 2                                           _
Yotal                        -           -            -          ~~~~ ~~~~~~~              ~~~~~~        ~~~~65.9  330.7  561 5.4 233.5      2.                            -
Oth-r Capit.l E.a..ditutrs
Waer Supply                                       55.6         92.0         62.0          35.0         35.0         30.0            10.0         -                110.0           35.0            34.0            34.0
Sanera                                            18.0         14.7         19.6          10.0         10.0         10.0                                           30.0           33.8            35.0              .0
TotaS                                           73.6         156.7         80.6         45.0         45.0          40.0           10.0          -                140.0           68.0            69.0           89.0
Int-roet Caoit.alieod
11RD                                                                          -               0         11.9         21.8           36.0          61.6             136.3                            _ 
Loc.1 Loana                                                      . _                         _                        3.6             9.2          9.3              7.2.1
Tonal                                              .                          . *.0                    11.9         25.4           45.2          70.9             158.4             _             -
Debt Sa-La
Nepoyast
EiStin6 LDasa                                     6.0          50.0         8.0          4.2          4.2           4.2            4.6           4.8              22.0            4.8             5.O           5.
Propo.ed IBRD LOan                               -             -            .            _            -             -              .             _                 .             16.7            18.3          1[.S
Proposed L.c Bl 8     Lr aa ..                   -             -            -            -             -                           -             -                                5 .2            5.5            6.0
eIrt eg 1.r   .                                   1.3          2.7          [.6           3.8          3.8          3.8            3.4           3.2              18.0            3.2             3.D            3.0
P-opo .d  BRD LDn                                                                        _6 .                                                                                    68.9            67.3           65.8
Prop .a.dLbag   Uaa  La0a ...                                                                          a--                                                                       11.3            11.0     ~      6
Total                                              7.,          7.             6            .0          8.0          8.0            8.5           8.8              49.D          110.1           110.1           110.1
00.10.00 (Sacrea--e in[ Curr-ot
A---t- xienn            - CaseS                   (5.0)         5.6          9.2          (3.1)        26.0         35.0           15.0           8.0              60.9           12.0             5.0            3.0
Contribution  and Taoaa                              1.8          3.5          4.7           9.0         10.5         11.9            13.1         14.4              58.9            15.7           17.0            18.0
DSsela ilead                                         1.1           1.2          1.3         I.a           .2A           2.5          -.-. .          1.               2               3.5            3.8             3.9
Tot l Alloantie-  of Fuod             78 .8                 TZ :7;         103.4         129.6            3       .5  3  
*ncre--a in Cesh                                     5.3        t10.0)        13.0          19.1        (21.7)         2.9            (0.9)         2.8             ( 3.4)         (1.4)             9.9            8.1
Caah Balance at bEnd ot Ye-.r                       12.1          2.1         15.1         34.2          12.5         15.4           14.5         t1.7                .              1.3            13.2           21.3
Debt See-ic  Co."r.                                  4.6          8.1          9.4          12,6         16.0         19.6           22.4          24.1                              1.8             1.6             1.8
Dcbt Srvtoe Cosera e  It,a                           3.3          3.8          5.3           5.4          6.2          7.0             7.5          7.6               _              1.3             1.5            t.S
C.oetribotloe and R-S.-ev Pond
may 1976



APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERACE PROJECT
YEGOOLAVIA
Preduecce Eadavad I i tna,lasacta Sarsteve
Balance  Sheat Es aat Deceber 31. 1973-19~83
(Din Millions)
As at Dece-ber 31                 1973         1974        1975         1976          1977         1978           1979         1980          1981          1982          1983
Assets
Fined Assets
Water Sapply                 270.7        318.7       470.7        517.8         686.7         929.8       I, l.6,        I i20.2      1 338.0       1,370.0       1,406.0
L.ess Dpreciat-en              94.7        103.0      113.6         124.7         138.3        156.3          179.1        206.2         233.7         262.0         11025
NeL Fined Ass.t ie          186.0       215.7       357.1        393.1         548.4         773.5         967.5        1 Tct.       1-04.3        14.0.0        tI,iA.S
DPse_ttnn
Se-SraSe                      118.3        122.0      156.7         170.0        200.0         400.0         800.0        1,255.0      1,372.5       1.407.5       1,442.5
Less Baptecintine                48.1          51.0       54.5          18.1          62.0         68.1           81.3         109.0        144.4         181.9         219.9
Net Fixed AsseCs iD            70.2         71.0      102.2         .11.9         138.0         331.9         718.7       1,;46.0      1,2282.       1,2752,       1.2i,.6
OperLtion
Woek ie Pregtn.s                 00.2         130.2        24.1         77.6         266.3        424.7          421.5          97.3         30.0          20            30.0
To6l_Fixsd Assets            321.4         416.9      43.4          582.6         852.7       1.530.1      2.107,7       2357.3        2 362.4       2,365.6       2.365.
Resee FDtd lst.tb                 3.6          4 E         6.1        ..J9            10.1          12.6          15.4         1.5          22.0          25.8           U.7
Current Asets
Advse fty ts                  11.7          12.8         3.0         12.0          24.0          Z9.0           6.0           5.0          5.0           5.0           5.0
Isseet-rie                     8.8          9.1        12_4          23.0          33.0          87S           30.0          94.0        103.0         106.0          .08.0
Iec.ivahlnr                   22.8          27.0        42.7         20.0          24.0          30.0          30.0          40.0         43.0         46.0            46.0
Cash                          12.1          2.1        IS.           34.2          12.5          S,4           164.5         11.7         3.3           13.2          21.3
Total  rfernt Assets    55.4         ,Q0           73.2         89.2          93.5         13.64         145.5         130.7        LSa3          769.2         15
Total Asesla           3JF4          47 .      7              679.7        1.006.3      1,761.1        2,2'J .t     2.526.5       2.538.7      23560.6        2.517.1
LiabiltRins
Emt
ussimess  osFgd              299.8        369.5       451.4         522.7         616.4         731.1         854.6         972.6      1,003.0       1,034.9       1,068.3
Res.rWe Fund                   3.6           4.8         6.1          7.9          10.1          12.6          1.4           16.5         22.0          25.8          29.7
Proposed Csostrlbntito        __    -                                              d70          264.0         405.0         4fl.0        Mf            433.0        435.0
ThtSI sEwit             303.4         374.3      s52.          11201         713.5      1,007.7       1.,1U.0         1.426.1       1460.0      1.495.7       1,533.0
LOsD Term L18sbilti.e
htSstist leas                 66.1          71.1       102.6         98.4          94.2          90.0          85.4          80.6         73.8          70.8          63.6
Proposed Il=  tnse                                        -          23.0         146.9         3187         594.7         810.0        193.3         775.0          75S.2
Popoesed loc                 -                   -            -                   -                           142.8         152.1    lid               164            170.4
Tor lM I Tlr            66.1           71.1       102.6        121.4         241.1         511.7         822.9      1,04  7              1,03 1.9 1,012.2       991.4
CrstLiablISttlO.
CoDttxctOs                             -      .   .       .          100           80.0          MA           140.0          20.0         14.0      1     4.0          14.0
A.een.ts Payable              10.9          27.3         2.6         17.7         21.7           24.7          30.7          37.7-        33.7 1..2.                  .11
Totl Ctreemat            10.9         V. 3          2.6         27.7         101.7         154.7         170.7          57.7         47.7           52.7     5     i.7
LIabilitte.
tai  LS "ilintles       280.4         472.7       56_7         679.7        1,056.3      1,674.1       2,208.        2,326.5      2,538.7        2 0560.6      2.379.
Ratio.
Debt/tqodty Ratio            18182         16s84       18:E2        19:81         25:75         34:66         39:61         42:58        41:50         40:60          W"S
Hay 1976                                                                                                                                                                              1



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3 page
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
Income Statements
1.        The Income Statements of Vodovod for 1973 and 1974 were adjusted
to conform to the standard Bank format. The principal adjustment was the
elimination of the "income" and "expenditure" for capital works undertaken
by Vodovod and its contractors on its own behalf and on behalf of other water
supply authorities.
2.        Projections were based on the accounts for nine months ending
September 30, 1975. The following inflation rates were used:
1976      -     16%
1977      -     13%
1978      -     10%
1979-1983 -      7% per annum
3.        The revenue for water supply and sewerage were calculated using the
tariff shown in Annex 16. No meter rents or deposits are charged by Vodovod.
4.        Other income includes connection charges, interest charged on out-
standing account, miscellaneous sales and maintenance works.
5.        Wages which include indirect benefits have been increased by 5%
per annum to provide for salary increments and additional staff appointments
to operate the expanded system.  A separate provision has been made for sewer-
age treatment plant staff from 1979 onwards. Wages of the Design and Con-
struction Supervision Department are not included as this department will act
as a contractor to Vodovod. The design costs are included in the project cost
estimates.
6.        The common services of accounting and administration have been in-
creased by 5% per annum. Sixty-two percent was allocated to water and the
balance to sewerage in accordance with Vodovod's present practice.
7.        Electricity has been increased in proportion to water produced.  A
special provision was made for electricity for the sewerage treatment plant
from 1979 onwards.



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 3 pages
8.        Maintenance costs were calculated at 0.75% of gross fixed assets
at the beginning of the year.
9.        Other expenditure was increased by 5% per annum.
10.       By law Vodovod is required to use the following minimum depreciation
rates:
Water Pipes          2.0
Sewer Pipes          1.5
Water Sources        1.5
Water Treatment      2.0
Reservoirs           1.5
Building             1.2
Pumps                7.0
Motor                5.5
Vehicles            20.0
Office Equipment   10.0
However, Vodovod has increased the depreciation rates used and presently charges
rates equal to 2.2% of gross fixed assets. This rate is satisfactory in view
of the skilled level of Vodovod's staff. Depreciation was projected at 2.2% of
gross fixed assets at the beginning of the year and increased to 2.7% in 1980
for sewerage to provide for the sewerage treatment plant.
11.       Interest on loans from IBRD and local banks during the construction
period has been capitalized.
Cash Flow Statement
12.       The following are the details of projected loans:
(a) An IBRD loan of Din 810.0 million (US$45.0 million) for
25 years, including a grace period of 5 years on repay-
ments, at 8-1/2% per annum.
(b) Proposed local bank loans of Din 152.1 million (US$8.5
million) plus interest during construction, for 20 years,
including a grace period of five years, at 7-1/2% per
annum. The Bank's participating are:



ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3 pages
Din million
(i)  Privredna Banka, Sarajevo                       50.0
(ii)  Jugobanka                                       30.0
(iii)  Ljubljanska Banka                               30.0
(iv)  Beogradska Banka                                20.0
Interest During Construction                    22.1
Total                                     152.1
13.       By law Vodovod is required to pay taxes to the City of Sarajevo and to
make contributions to social funds from net income remaining after meeting
legal and contractural obligations. The workers may also authorize additional
contributions. The projections are based on the estimates of the accounting
staff of Vodovod.  Contributions which are in the nature of fringe benefits for
workers are included under wages.
14.       Enterprises are required by law to establish a reserve fund to be
used for payment of legal obligations in case of insolvency. The contribu-
tions are based on the estimare of the accounting staff of Vodovod.
Balance Sheet
15.       Trust funds, such as the Collective Consumption Fund, administered
by Vodovod on behalf of its workers, have been eliminated from the Balance
Sheets.
16.       Inventories have been increased in line with the increase in gross
fixed assets.
17.       Receivables have been increased in line with increased revenue.
18.       Accounts payable have been maintained at about 25% of operating
costs.
May 1976



ANNEX 15
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
YUGOSLAVIA
Proposed Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
Water  Supply                         Sewerage
Date            Price: Din per m3                   Surcharge:Din per m3
Household   Consumers      Indx      Household    Other        Index
January 1,1973    1.50         3.00         100.0       0.50        1.00         100.0
July 1, 1974      2.00         4.00         133.3       1.00        2.00        200.0
January 1, 1975   2.50         5.00         166.7       1.25        2.50        250.0
January 1, 1976   3.00         6.00        200.0        1.50        3.00        300.0
January 1, 1977   3.50         7.00        233.3        1.75        3.50        350.0
January 1, 1978   4.00         8.00        266.7        2.00        4.00        400.0
January 1, 1979   4.25         8.50        283.3        2.25        4.50        450.0
January 1s 1980   4.50         9.00        300.0        2.50        5.00        500.0
January 1, 1981   4.60         9.20        306.7        2.55        5.10        510.0
January 1, 1982   4.70         9.h0        313.3        2.60        5.20        520.0
January 1, 1983   4.80         9.60        320.0        2.65        5.30        530.0
January 1, 1984   4.90         9.80        326.7        2.70        5.40        540.0
January 1, 1985   5.00        10.00        333.3        2.75        5.50        550.0
January 1, 1986   5.10        10.20        340.0        2.80        5.60        560.0
January 1, 1987   5.20        10.40        346.7        2.85        5.70        570.0
January 1,9 1988   5.30       10.60        353.3        2.90        5.80        580.0
May 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 6 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Justification
Background
1.        There are serious deficiencies in the existing water supply and
sewerage facilities in Sarajevo; the infiltration of sewage from leaking
sewers into corroded water supply pipes, the possibility of a return to
rationing and intermittent water supply by 1978, the discharge of untreated
sewage and hospital wastes into the Miljacka River, and the resulting threat
to health and economic productivity (Annex 2).
Water Supply
2.        There are a variety of benefits associated with the provision of a
convenient and safe water supply. Among the more important benefits of the
improved Sarajevo water supply will be health benefits both immediate and long
range. These health benefits will be partially revealed through medical cost
savings, a general improvement in individual well being, and a cost savings
to, or an increased productivity of, business enterprises. This follows from
the fact that a healthier population will require less health care, will tend
to have lower employment absentee rates, and will tend to be more productive
when they are on the job. It is not possible to quantitatively measure these
benefits, however, because the recent health statistics which summarize the
incidence and prevalence of water and sanitation related diseases in Sarajevo,
pertain to the period prior to December 1974 during which time most of the
city had intermittent water supplies. During that period sewage infiltration
into empty water pipes and the resulting water supply and sanitation related
health problems would be expected to be of a different magnitude than they are
currently.
3.        In view of the wide variety of water uses, and of the unknown values
of the exact benefits of each of those uses, the best method by which an at-
tempt can be made to derive at least a minimum estimate of benefits is to
examine the water consumers' demonstrated willingness to pay for the water
which they consume. The internal economic rate of return was calculated using
incremental water sales at 1976 tariff as a measure of benefits. Costs of
replacement of corroded distribution pipes and service connections were ex-
cluded from the investment costs and the benefits resulting from this work
were not added to the incremental water sales. The rate of return on the
water supply investment is estimated at 15.6% (Table 1). If projected incre-
mental consumption was reduced by 25%, the rate of return would be 9.5%. This
indicates that the new water tariff implemented early this year is satisfactory.



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 6 pages
The proposed water tariffs during the project construction period (Annex 16)
will on average maintain the present tariff in real terms given the projected
inflation rates. The proposed tariffs from 1981 onwards would not keep up with
the projected 7% inflation. However, the requirement that Vodovod should ad-
just their tariffs to finance each year from 1981 onward not less than 35% of
the average cost of investment from internal cash generation (para 6.10) should
at least maintain future tariff at the present levels in real terms.
Sewerage
4.        The benefits of the proposed investment in sewage collection and
treatment in Sarajevo fall into the following categories, which are not
necessarily mutually exclusive: (a) health benefits, (b) an increase in
property values along waterways which are currently polluted by untreated
sewage, and (c) recreation benefits which will result from the partial cleansing
of the Miljacka River. These benefits, however, cannot be accurately measured
for the following reasons: (a) as discussed above recent water and sanitation
related health statistics relate to a prior period during which water was sup-
plied on an intermittent basis, (b) the market for land in Sarajevo is regulated
and as a result measurable land market values will not be necessarily change
along the improved waterways, and (c) given that the Miljacka River has been
severely polluted during the summer months in recent years, data do not exist
which can be used to predict the extent to which the river and its shores will
be used for recreational purposes once the river is no longer a depository
for the untreated sewage of Sarajevo.
5.        In addition, a minimum estimate of the benefits of sewage collec-
tion and treatment cannot be derived through consumers' observed willingness
to pay since (a) for reasons of financial viability consumers are required to
connect to the sewerage system and therefore free expression of the value
which they place on the service cannot be revealed, and (b) the surcharge on
water which consumers currently pay for sewage collection may actually be an
additional amount which they are willing to pay for water, i.e. it may actual-
ly be a reflection of consumers' surplus for water supply.
6.        As a result, while the benefits of the investment in sewage collec-
tion and treatment in Sarajevo could certainly be greater than the costs, it
is not possible to quantitatively demonstrate that they are. The major jus-
tification for the sewerage investment is that collection and treatment of
sewage in Sarajevo is necessary for the healthful and orderly development of
the area and that the proposed method of collecting and treating the sewage
is the least cost method. All that can be done in these circumstances is to
ensure that, once the decision to provide sewerage facilities has been made,
the price charged for water and its convenient disposal is set in such a way
that these resources are not used wastefully.



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 6 pages
Water Supply and SeweragzeTariffs
7.        The problems of water supply and sewerage benefit measurement high-
light the need to formulate a water supply and sewerage tariff policy which
reflects the true costs of supplying water and disposing of wastewater in
Sarajevo. The objective of this would be to assure that future investment
decisions can be made with greater confidence as to their economic merit. If
the price of water supplv and sewerage services is fixed at a level which
approximates the long run marginal cost of supplying those services, then it
will be demonstrable that increments in the consumption of water supply and
sewerage services are valued by consumers at least as much as the resources
consumed in providing those increments, i.e. approximate economic efficiency
will be attained from a resource allocation point of view.
8.        In attempting to estimate the long run marginal costs of supplying
and disposing of water in Sarajevo an average incremental cost calculation
was carried out on incremental output and on incremental capital and operat-
ing costs for the years 1976 to 2005. The water supply and sewerage capital
costs which were used in the calculation were only those required to handle
the incremental volume usage. As a result, a portion of the investment in the
sewage treatment plant and in the main sewage collectors was eliminated from
the average incremental cost exercise since these costs are essential to rectify
the present sewage disposal problems. Because of this, they should not enter
into the economic pricing decision for water supply and sewage disposal.
9.        An average incremental cost exercise was carried out using discount
rates of 8, 10 and 12 percent for water supply and sewage disposal (Table 2).
The results are summarized as follows:
Discount             Water Supply
Rate               and Sewerage
Din per m3
8                      6.55
10                      7.32
12                      8.16
Depending on the assumed discount rate, the tariff charged for the provision
and sanitary disposal of water supply and sewage in Sarajevo should be between
6.55 and 8.16 Din per m3 at 1976 price levels.
10.       The city of Sarajevo has proposed to increase water and sewerage
tariffs (in Din. per m3) in approximately the following manner:



ANNEX 16
Page 4 of 6 pages
Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
1976                      Actual                 1976 Prices
Household                   4.50                      4.50
Other                       9.00                      9.00
1978
Household                   6.00                      4.58
Other                      12.00                      9.16
1980
Household                   7.00                      4.55
Other                      14.00                      9.06
11.       Assuming that the two consumer categories (households and other)
will consume approximately equal quantities of water, the mean price (in 1976
dinars) for water supply and sewage disposal during the project construction
period would be approximately Din 6.8 per m3. This compares favorably with
the average incremental cost price at a discount rate of 8 percent.
12.       There are historical and political reasons for the two class tariff
system in Sarajevo. However, on economic grounds there is no resource alloca-
tion reason why household consumers should be charged a price which is much
less than the average incremental cost of supplying and disposing of water
and waterborne wastes while other consumers are charged a price in excess of
average incremental costs. Assuming that the price elasticity of demand for
water supply and sewage disposal is not perfectly inelastic, the two-class
price structure would tend to encourage excessive consumption of water by
households while constraining consumption by commerce and industry at a level
below that which would be desirable from an economic efficiency point of view.
From a resource allocation point of view all consumers should pay a price equal
to the average incremental cost of supplying and disposing of water and water-
borne wastes. However, in Sarajevo most families reside in multi-unit apart-
ment buildings. Water consumption per household is low (about 12 m3 per month
in 1974) as the average apartment is small with one bathroom, common laundry,
facilities and no gardens. The lower domestic tariff ensures that the necessary
minimum amount of water would be available to the lower income households at
reasonable cost. To expand the stepped tariff structure to domestic consumers
would involve Vodovod in substantial additional costs for metering and collec-
tion with limited potential water savings.
May 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 5 of 6 Pages
TABLE 1
Internal Economic Rate of Return
On the Water Supply Investment
Year     Capital Costs        Incremental        Total Costs      Incremental
Operating Costs                        Benefits
-------------------------Din Millions-----------------------------
1976         30.0                 3.2               33.2                9.6
1977         80.0                 5.7               85.7              17.7
1978         90.0                 8.7               98.7               25.4
1979         50.0                12.5               62.5              36.1
1980         30.0                15.7               45.7              41.4
1981         10.0                18.7               28.7              48.0
1982         10.0                21.1               31.1              55.1
1983          5.0                24.1               29.1              61.4
1984          5.0                25.6               30.6               68.1
1985          5.0                27.6               32.1               74.8
1986         25.0                28.6               53.6               81.5
1987          4.0                29.9               33.9               88.2
1988          4.0                31.2               35.2              95.0
1989          4.0                32.2               36.2             101.7
1990          2.0                33.3               35.3             108.4
1991/2005     nil                33.3               33.3             108.4
Internal Economic Rate of Return = 15.6%.
If benefits decreased by 25% Rate of Return will be 9.5%.



ANNEX 16
Page 6 of 6
TABLE 2
Average Incremental Cost for Water Supply and Sewerage
Capital Costs         Incremental
1976 Prices           Operating Costs                    Incremental
Year                                 (1976 prices)       Total       Volume
--------------------Million Dinars-------------         M  Million
1976            50.0                  4.3                 54.3           2.4
1977           160.0                  7.5                167.5            3.9
1978           190.0                 11.5                201.5           5.3
1979           150.0                 20.2                170.2            7.3
1980            80.0                 26.5                106.5           8.2
1981            20.0                 32.3                 52.3            9.5
1982            20.0                 36.2                 56.2          10.7
1983            15.0                 40.3                 55.3          11.9
1984            15.0                 42.9                 57.9          13.1
1985            10.0                 46.0                 56.0          14.3
1986            30.0                 48.1                 78.1          15.5
1987             9.0                 50.5                 59.5          16.7
1988             6.0                52.9                  58.9          17.9
1989             6.0                 55.0                 61.0          19.1
1990             4.0                57.2                  61.2          20.3
1991             4.0                 59.3                 63.3          21.5
1992             4.0                 61.3                 65.3          22.7
1993             4.0                 63.3                 67.3          23.9
1994             4.0                 65.3                 69.3          25.1
1995            80.0                 67.3                147.3          26.3
1996            80.0                 70.5                150.5          27.5
1997            10.0                 74.0                 84.0          28.7
1998            10.0                 76.5                 86.5          29.9
1999             4.0                 79.0                 83.0           31.1
2000             4.0                 81.0                 85.0          32.3
2001             4.0                83.2                  87.2          33.5
2002             4.0                 85.4                 89.4           34.7
2003             4.0                 87.6                 91.6          35.9
2004             4.0                89.8                  93.8          37.1
2005             4.0                 92.0                 96.1          38.3
The average incremental cost of water supply and sewerage services are as
follows:
Discount Rate               Incremental Costs
Din per m
8                            6.55
10                            7.32
12                            8.16
May 1976



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF
SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
KEY INDICATCRS
I. Water Supply
- water produced 106 m3 per year
- total water sold 106 m  per year
- water sold to domestic consumers 106 m3 per year
- water sold to other consumers 106 m3 per year
- unaccounted-for water (%)
- pressure range in system
number of system leaks repaired
* length corroded pipes replaced
t otal number of connections
- population served
number unmetered connections
3 total dissolved solids
* chlorine residual of distributed water
- PH. temperature and turbidity
- Most Probable Number (MPN) for bacteria count of distributed water
II. Sewerage
- volume treated 106 m3 per year total
- numher of connections to combined system
- number of connections to separate system
- population served
- BOD5 of raws and effluent sewage
- SS of raw and effluent sewage
- percent removal (M)
III. Financial
- rate of return
- debt:Equity Ratio
- debt Service coverage
- average depreciation rate
- average revenue   (a) per m3 of water sold (domestic, other)
(b) per m3 of sewerage surcharged (domestic, other)
- number of average days bills outstanding (by customer category)
- revenue effectiveness index
- operating expenses (a) per m3 water produced
(b) per m3 of water surcharged for sewerage



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2 pages
IV. Staffing and Training
- number of permanent employees
- employees per 1,000 connections
- man-months of employee training
- man-month consultants
V. Water Quality for Bosna and Miljacka Rivers
- minimum flows m/s
- average flows m/s
- DO levels near treatment plant outlet
- DO levels at existing sampling stations
- Nitrates and other chemical characteristics
Kq,I 1976



r   Dg  loJ;   0    l  E;3  l  < )  X 0  \-  i  9 gSt51/ < ~~~~~~~~700S/ 2VS /3\ * -2 g / \ t XhL IBRD 1145BF11458
X  ozAuHEu<>9 >  A 0 \V.    t                  t  /<>X 0  0  <                       ~~~~~~YUGOSLAVIA
<  r U G O S L A V I A  n   X   ) *t   )t 5546  ;  4<      t    ) 0 '> g~SARAJEVO WATER SUPPLY
-.<s et Cft pX -<_r: ' s~~~~ <- Ve xy i XXuwx ~WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA    EVD BY E X :C,     ,IS  NG WATE  SUPL  SYS
S  f  X    l    \N  <  - W   X0o,zg- 2         X.,!- -vtri S X,X   0- X   : (T  Bt  X              I~~~~~~~~~~~~ARASWHIH WLL E ERVD UDE
1  (1  *  k  ~~~~~~~~ts JX ~~~~~\  % S 0 z <) jf vE#' i : X X tf X C z-,~~~~~~~TE   ROPSEDPROEC
,i'' ,?    X  'lll  *'E,  <  CS    CAS  ''  w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''r''"''''    'S EXSTIG  ROOS
0  b   ,   (2 X  -0r   ;    >;;+ R!>t                      tX                    4                 S      t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUPIGSTTIN
..   , ..  .   X   i= -- X -  ,/N, - ..   . W    ;X; t  t  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESRVIR
L   A    <i \ ; z - @   ir---e~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  < 9 ->. 1  k '   sra  \:'   -   2 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~WLL
t_)XA   0)   0 /  |   s;   0 6   'ei 6  -  n -  3 =t}    >       X  ( ; /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATE  M   N
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                            MAI STEE NETWORK Hwrr<<l
1,;0?k00S   ,"N,0    ; f>                                   X X a f  m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_    I VR






________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD    11459R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBR   1159
~~  7~~~~'    V                                                                                                  SW                                                                                                                                                                   SEPTEMIER 1975~~~~~SA AJVO WA ERSU PL
X < m 0 00t ' < 0 \ X)/ Y  U  G   O  S L A V I A
4>                                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEWERAGE SYSTEM
>4Yu50;LY Av7  N;                                                                                  X                                                                                                                                    -                                               P <V~  t%  AND SEWERAEC PROJECT
+    '                                                                                                                                                                                                  ''    ;    |   :    (   S   D   ;  : ;:' S < ix 97 X te 7 <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C LL CT O S   ND SE ER
'iS 'g X  TV%  ?\<A                                  4' t 
;. k   U:sil p;6 lS                                                        9   J       t; bf    0,,             W;.   f,.    =  ........  r V E   ( < / < f )   j X   L     t                \               (       C       4      <               4              n      ~      )      STF
/ rRSAEN
C | N ~~~%\                           ,'<-8           -> \-\ |   _C LLETRADE7R 
X   <   X   <  S  \  X  <S X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                                                                                                                                                                COVERED CREEKS USED AS PRINCIPAL  STORM  SEWERS ._|
k lo g E j j / \ x iX X 9 > < ''< < _,#- CONIOUFE5 N MEER5 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONOUFS  I                                                                                                                                                          MEER
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
f X % X \ n ' AS \ ) $ K l i OM
/o  Jvx  X  z 0X-X\ - n 9'"" ) 1l gt'J\''r&@< 0 > <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



