CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1263 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PREDUZECE VODOVOD I KANALIZACIJA SARAJEVO
(Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage Enterprise)
Dated June 8, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and PREDUZECE VODOVOD I KANALIZACIJA SARAJEVO (Sarajevo
Water Supply and Sewerage Enterprise) (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
(A) The Borrower is an Organization of Associated Labor
established and existing under the laws of the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, and in accordance with the Borrower's Self-
Management Agreement, dated December 27, 1973, as amended on May 23,
1975, responsible inter alia, for water supply, sewerage and
drainage systems in the City of Sarajevo;
(B) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) Skupstina Grada Sarajeva (the City Assembly of Sarajevo)
(hereinafter called the City Assembly), has established Zavod za
Izgradnju Grada Sarajeva (Institute for Construction of the City)
(hereinafter called the Institute), to be responsible for the
physical development of the Sarajevo urban area, and has designated
the Institute as the agency which will exercise on behalf of the
City Assembly overall responsibility for the coordination of con-
struction under the Project and the project referred to in Schedule
2 to, and to be carried out by Preduzece za transport i distribuciju
gasa Sarajevo (Sarajevo Gas Enterprise) (hereinafter called Sarajevo
Gas) under, the Loan Agreement (Sarajevo Air Pollution Control


﻿I
Project) of even date herewith between the Bank, Sarajevo Gas and
.Naftagas" Kombinat Naftne industrije Novi Sad "Gas" Radna
Organizacija Transporta Prerade Primene i Prometa Gasa Sa Solidarnom
Odgovornoscu Novi Sad (Naftagas Gas Unit);
(D) The Borrower has made arrangements to secure financing
during the construction period of the Project, in addition to the
Loan and internal cash generation, as follows: (i) a loan from
Privredna Banka Sarajevo in an amount of 50,000,000 Dinars (about
$2,778,000 equivalent at current exchange rates); (ii) a loan from
Jugobanka Sarajevo in an amount of 30,000,000 Diiars (about
$1,667,000 equivalent at current exchange rates); Jiii) a loan
from Ljubljanska Banka, in an amount of 30,000,000 Dinars (about
$1,667,000 equivalent at current exchange rates); (iv) a loan
from Beogradska Banka in an amount of 20,000,000 Dinars (about
$1,111,000 equivalent at current exchange rates); (v) a capital
contribution from the Republicki Fond Voda (Republic Water Fund),
in an amount of 100,000,000 Dinars (about $5,556,000 equivalent
at current exchange rates); (vi) a capital contribution from the
Doprinos za Stambenu Izgradnjv (Housing Fund) in an amount of
150,000,000 Dinars (about $8,333,000 equivalent a- current exchange
rates); (vii) a capital contribution of the Doprinos za Koristenje
Gradskog Zemljista (Site Preparation Fund) in an amount of
135,000,000 Dinars (about $7,500,000 equivalent at current exchange
rates); and (viii) a capital contribution from the City Assembly,
in an amount of 50,000,000 Dinars (about $2,778,000 equivalent at
current exchange rates);


﻿3
(E) By the Project Coordination Agreement of even date here-
with between the Bank and the City Assembly, the City Assembly has
undertaken certain obligations in relation to the implementation
of the Project; and
(F) By an agreement of even date herewith between the Social-
ist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (hereinafter called the Guar-
antor) and the Bank (hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement),
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the Loan as to payment of
principal, interest and other charges.
WHEREAS the Bank, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower on the conditionx here-
inafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely, that the words "(including, but without limitation, its
constituent Basic Organizations referred to in the Borrower's
Statutes and Self-Management Agreement, as amended)" are added
after the words "the Borrower" in paragraph (a) of Section 12.01
of, and in paragraph (a) of Section 12.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless tie con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Project Coordination Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and the City Assembly of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all agreements supplemental to the Project Coordination Agreement:
(b) "City" means the City of Sarajevo;


﻿-5-
(c) "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba Drustvenogj
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paragraph (5) of
Article 281 of the Guarantor's Constitution;
(d) "Borrower's Statutes" means the Statutes of the Borrower
adopted by its constituent basic organizations of associated labor
(within the meaning of the provisions of the Guarantor's Law
published in the Official Gazette (Sluzbeni list) of the Guarantor,
dated April 19, 1973), on February 27, 1974, as amended on June 1,
1975;
(e) "Borrower's Self-Management Agreement" means the Self-
Management Agreement of the Borrower, entered into among the Bor-
rower's constituent basic organizations of associated labor (within
the meaning set forth in paragraph (d) of this Section 1.02 of this
Agreement) on December 27, 1973, as amended on May 23, 1975;
(f) "Dinar" means the currency of the Guarantor; and
(g)  "Rad" means "Komunalno Preduzece "Rad"--Sarajevo" (Sarajevo
solid waste collection and disposal enterprise), an organization
of associated labor established and existing under the Laws of the
Guarantor pursuant to its Statutes adopted by its constituent basic
organizations of associated labor (within the meaning set forth in
paragraph (d) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement) on December 31,
1973, and its Self-Management Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five mil-
lion dollars ($45,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in
respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment
dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall


﻿-7-
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date aq the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor and the City Assembly of such
later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices
under the supervision of experienced and competent management and
with the assistance of qualified staff.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of final designs, tender documents, bid evaluation, and the
supervision of construction of the facilities provided under the
Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, within twelve months after the Effective Date,
enter into an appropriate agreement with Rad for joint ownership
of the sanitary landfill currently owned and operated by Rad and
to be developed pursuant to Part II(d) of the Project and for an
equitable allocation of the operating costs pertaining thereto.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, in order to safeguard against
pollution, make arrangements with the City Assembly to take, within
twelve months after the Effective Date, all necessary measures to
establish protection zones for the City's groundwater sources.


﻿-9-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions there-
to, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the fa-
cilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 10-
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment relevant to the Project and any relevant records and
documents of the Borrower.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed and in any event prior
to the award of major contracts, all such land, and rights in
respect of land (including easements in public roadways) as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times carry out its
operations, manage its affairs and maintain its financial position
and plan its future expansion, all in accordance with sound engi-
neering, business, financial and public utility principles and
practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management, assisted by qualified and competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and properties, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall at all times maintain the
right to carry on its operations, and take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise
dispose of any of its rights, property or assets, related to its


﻿- 12 -
water supply and sewerage operations, except in the ordinary course
of business.
Section 4.06. (a) Prior to the completion of the Project, the
Borrower, before undertaking or executing any major project or
development other than the Project, shall afford a reasonable
opportunity to the Bank to exchange views on the proposed project
or development, and shall not undertake or execute, for its own
account or for the account of any third party or parties, any proj-
ect or development other than the Project, which would substantially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project, the operation
of the facilities included in the Project, the conduct of the Bor-
rower's business, the Borrower's financial situation, or the
efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel.
(b) For the purpose of this Section, the term "major project
or development" meani any project or development with an investment
character resulting in estimated aggregate capital expenditures
exceeding $1,000,000, or the equivalent, or such other amount as
shall be agreed from time to time between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and
comnent, quarterly and annual reports showing the results of its
operations achieved in terms of the key indicators set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time with the agreement of the Bank.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and experi-
enced independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any


﻿- 14
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created or any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any 'Lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) implement whichever is the higher of: (i) the tariff
scale for water supply and sewerage as set out in Schedule 6 to
this Agreement; or (ii) a modified tariff scale which, together
with its other charges related to its operations, shall provide
revenues sufficient:
(A) to cover in any given year all operating expenses
including employee compensation, administrative
and overhead costs, adequate maintenance costs,
interest and adequate provision for taxes and
other contributions provided by law, if any, but
excluding depreciation:


﻿- 15 -
(B) to cover in any given year debt amortization;
(C) to provide for adequate increases in working capital;
(D) to make contributions as necessary to reserve and
other authorized funds; and
(E) to finance not less than 30% of the cost of invest-
ment in water and sewerage facilities, including
interest during construction, during the period
1976-1980, and beginning with the year 1981 to
finance each year not less than 35% of the average
cost of investment in water and sewerage facilities,
including interest during construction, during
each consecutive three-year period comprising the
Adlk                   last actual year and two forecast years.
L
(b) for purposes of the foregoing and as part of such infor-
mation as may be requested under subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a)
of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, within the first six
months of each year:
(i) prepare and furnish to the Bank an updated statement
of sources and application of funds covering in
every case (A) until the year 1980, the period
1976-1980 and (B) thereafter the current year and
the following two years; and
(ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank all other relevant
information concerning the steps taken or planned


﻿- 16 -
to be taken by the Borrower in order to comply with
its obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than debt incurred
for purposes of the Project and referred to in Recital (D) to the
Loan Agreement, if the net revenues for the fiscal year next pre-
ceding such incurrence shall be less than 1.3 times the maximum
debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all
of its debt then outstanding (including the debt to be incurred).
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date the loan contract
or agreement providing for such debt or modifying its
terms of payment is entered into, and (B) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement pro-
viding for such guarantee is entered into;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from
all sources adjusted to take account of tariffs for
water supply and sewerage in effect at the time of
calculation even though they were not in effect
during the twelve consecutive months to which such


﻿- 17 -
revenues related, less operating and administrative
expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes
and levies, if any, or any payments in lieu thereof,
and personnel remuneration, but before provision for
depreciation and debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other currency
is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
the Borrower shall prepay part, or all, of the principal amount
outstanding of any debt of the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepay
a proportionate part, or all, as the case may be, of the Loan.
(b) All provisions of the General Conditions relating to
repayment or redemption in advance of maturity shall be applicable
to any prepayment by the Borrower of the Loan under this Section.


﻿- 18 -
Section 5.07. If the completion of the Project is hindered or
delayed, or is threatened with hindrance or del.Ay, because the
funds available to the Borrower are inadequate to insure its com-
pletion, the Borrower shall promptly demand that the City Assembly
provide the Borrower, or cause the Borrower to be provided, with
the necessary funds as and when required, in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Coordination Agreement.


﻿-19 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the City Assembly shall have failed to perform any
covenant, agreement or obligation of the City Assembly under the
Project Coordination Agreement;
(b) a default materially and adversely affecting the carrying
out of the Project, the operation of the facilities included in
the Project, or the servicing of the Loan shall occur in the per-
formance by any party of any covenant or agreement under any of
the agreements entered into for purposes of securing the financing
referred to in Recital (D) of the preamble of this Agreement;
(c) the Borrower shall have been unable to withdraw any
amount of the loans from Privredna Banka Sarajevo, Jugobanka Sarajevo,
Ljubljanska Banka, or Beogradska Banka, respectively, or of the
capital contributions to be provided by the Republicki Fond Voda
(Republic Water Fund) by the Doprinos za Stambenu Izgradnju (Housing
Fund), Doprinos za Koritenje Gradskog Zemljista (Site Preparation
Fund), or by the City Assembly, referred to in Recital (D) of the
preamble of this Agreement, to meet exnenditures for the Project
as they occur, and other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to
meet such expenditures have not been made;


﻿- 20 -
(d) any provision of: (i) any of the agreements referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section 6.01 or; (ii) such provisions of
the Borrower's Statutes or the Borrower's Self-Management Agreement
as affect in any way whatever (A) the Borrower's ability to carry
out its obligations contained in this Agreement or (B) the Borrower's
existence as an independent enterprise, shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated or terminated without the prior approval of
the Bank;
(e) any other loan or credit to the Borrower, including any
of the loans referred to in Recital (D) of the preamble of this
Agreement, shall have become due and payable prior to its agreed
maturity pursuant to the terms thereof; and
(f) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the City Assembly will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Coordination Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower, the City Assembly and the Guarantor;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Seition 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and the Guarantor; and


﻿- 21 -
(c)  any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has entered into agreements in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank to secure the financing referred
to in Recital (D) of the preamble to this Agreement, and such
agreements are in full force and effect; and
(b) the execution and alivery of the Project Coordination
Agreement on behalf of the City Assembly have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Borrowei has full power and authority to carry
out the construction and installation of the facilities included
in the Project and to operate them upon their completion, and has
all necessary rights and powers in connection therewith;
(b) that all agreements referred to in Section 7.01(a) of
this Agreement: (i) have been duly executed and authorized or rati-
fied by all necessary governmental and corporate action; (ii) are


﻿- 23 -
legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with their
terms; and (iii) are in full force and effect; and
(c) that the Project Coordination Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the City Assembly, and is legally binding upon the City Assembly
in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date September 6, 1976 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 24
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Preduzece Voaovod i Kanalizacija Sarajevo
Ulica Jaroslava ernija br.8
71 .000 Sarajevo
Yugoslavia
Cable address:
VODOVOD
Sarajevo


﻿- 25 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
PREDUZECE VODOVOD I KANALIZACIJA SARAJEVO
By /s/ Midhat Aganovic
Authorized Representative


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Pipes, materials
and equipment for
the Project
(a) Directly im-          6,000,000          100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(c.i.f. cost)
(b) Locally sup-          5,500,000          50%
plied, in-
cluding lo-
cally procured
but imported
goods
(2) Civil works (con-         18,000,000          30%
struction and in-
stallation of the
facilities included
in the Project)
(3)  Services of engi-         3,300,000          50%
neering consultants
for the Project and
staff training


﻿27 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Interest and other         7,600,000          Amounts due
charges on the
Loan accrued on
or before December 31,
1980
(5) Unallocated                4,600,000
TOTAL     45,000,000


﻿- 28 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect
of Category 3 on account of expenditures made by the City Assembly
or the Borrower after January 1, 1974, for the preparation of
feasibility studies, final designs and tender documents for the
Project, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$750,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or,
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to


﻿- 29 -
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of an overall scheme for water and air
pollution control in Sarajevo through the expansion and improvement
of water supply and sewerage facilities for the abatement of water
pollution, and the construction of a natural gas transmission and
distribution system and the conversion of furnaces for the abate-
ment of air pollution.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I.        Water Supply
(a) Construction of an infiltration gallery;
(b)  Construction of six new reservoirs and expansion of
three existing reservoirs to provide for additional
storage capacity of about 24,500 m3
(c)  Construction and equipping of a booster pumping station
and the expansion of four existing pumping stations;
(d) Installation of about 31 km of water mains;
(e) Replacement of about 51 km of distribution pipes
and about 5,000 obsolete service connections;


﻿- 31 -
(f) Installation of: (i) a telemetry control system; and
(ii) master meters on the major water mains; and
(g) Carrying out of hydro-geological studies and preparation
of a water resource master plan to meet the City's
requirements through the year 2000.
Part II.       Sewerage
(a) Construction of about 33 km of collectors and main sewers;
(b) Replacement of about 4.5 km of worn-out sewer laterals
and about 2,000 service connections;
(c) Construction of sewage treatment facilities;
(d) Installation of sludge filters and renovation of the
existing landfill to provide for proper disposal of the
dried sludge; and
(e) Installation of an activated sludge pilot plant for
experimentation in sewage treatment processes to obtain
optimal utilization of the main treatment facilities.
Part III.      Common Works and Services
(a) Construction of headquarters for the Borrower and
provision of office equipment; and


﻿(b) Provision of engineering services for, inter alia, project
administration and training.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1981                                   445,000
May 15, 1982                                        465,000
November 15, 1982                                   485,000
May 15, 1983                                        505,000
November 15, 1983                                   525,000
May 15, 1984                                        550,000
November 15, 1984                                   575,000
May 15, 1985                                        595,000
November 15, 1985                                   625,000
May 15, 1986                                        650,000
November 15, 1986                                   675,000
May 15, 1987                                        705,000
November 15, 1987                                   735,000
May 15, 1988                                       765,000
November 15, 1988                                   800,000
May 15, 1989                                        835,000
November 15, 1989                                   870,000
May 15, 1990                                        905,000
November 15, 1990                                   945,000
May 15, 1991                                        985,000
November 15, 1991                                 1,025,000
h:y 15, 1992                                      1,070,000
November 15, 1992                                 1,115,000
May 15, 1993                                      1,165,000
November 15, 1993                                 1,210,000
May 15, 1994                                      1,265,000
November 15, 1994                                 1,315,000
May 15, 1995                                      1,375,000
November 15, 1995                                 1,430,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 34-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1996                                       1,490,000
November 15, 1996                                  1,555,000
May 15, 1997                                       1,620,000
November 15, 1997                                  1,690,000
May 15, 1998                                       1,765,000
November 15, 1998                                  1,840,000
May 15, 1999                                       3,915,000
November 15, 1999                                  1,995,000
May 15, 2000                                       2,080,000
November 15, 2000                                  2,170,000
May 15, 2001                                       2,270,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determinid as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 35 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years                         1%
before maturity
More than three years but                     2-1/4%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                       4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                5-1/2%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not               7-1/4%
more than twenty-one years
before maturity
More than twenty-one years but                    8%
not more than twenty-three years
before matuxity
More than twenty-three years                  8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, goods, works and ser-
vices shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975, (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Foreign contractors shall not be required to register
in Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the event
that registration shall be necessary after a foreign contractor
has been notified that he will be awarded a contract, the Borrower
shall facilitate the registration.
(b) Each contract for civil works shall include a provision
allowing non-Yugoslav contractors to convert into foreign exchange
a reasonable portion of contract payments.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph A.1 above, civil
works contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$500,000 and contracts for equipment and materials estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 may be awarded on the
basis of local advertising only and in accordance with the usual
local competitive bidding procedures of the Guarantor.


﻿- 37 -
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank


﻿- 38 -
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Yugoslavia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Yugoslavia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group 3 is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs *
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for


﻿- 39 -
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Minor works included in the Project, such as replacement of
service connections and renovations to the existing water supply
and sewer networks, may be carried out, under arrangements accept-
able to the Bank, by force account, up to a value in the aggregate
not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalif4cation. if bidders are to be prequalified,
the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are
notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.


﻿- 40-
With respect to all contracts for: (i) materials and equip-
ment estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and
(ii) for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 vf this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award of the said consultants and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 41-
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission t^ the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
.    the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 42-
SCHEDULE 5
Key Indicators
I.   Water S!Mjy
6 3
-water produced 10 m 3er year
-total water sold 106 m3 per year   6  3
-water sold to domestic consumers6103 m  per year
-water sold to other consumers 10 m per year
-unaccounted-for water (%)
-pressure range in system
-number of system leaks repaired
-length corroded pipes replaced
-total number of connections
-population served
-number unmetered connections
-total dissolved solids
-chlorine residual of distributed water
-PH, temperature and turbidity
-most probable bacteria number counts (MPN) of
distributed water
II. Sewerage
6 3
-volume treated 10 m   per year total
-number of connections to combined system
-number of connections to separate system
-population served
-BOD5 of raw and effluent sewage
-SS of raw and effluent sewage
-percent removal (%)
III. Financial
-rate of return (separately for water and sewerage)
-debt:equity ratio
-debt service coverage
-average depreciation rate (separately for water and
sewerage)


﻿-43 -
-average revenue    (a) per m3 of water sold (domestic,
othe5)
(b) per m of sewerage surcharged
(domestic, other)
-number of average days bills outstanding (by customer
category)
-revenue effectiveness index
-operating expenses (a) per m 3 of water produced
(b) per m of water surcharged for
sewerage
IV. Staffing and Training
-number of permanent employees
-employees per 1,000 conn6ctions
-man-months of employee training
-man-month consultants
V.   Water quality for Bosna and Miljacka Rivers
-minimum flows m/s
-average flows m/s
-DO levels near treatment plant outlet
-DO levels at existing sampling stations
-Nitrates and other chemical characteristics


﻿- 44 -
SCHEDULE 6
Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs 1976-1988
Water Supply _              Sewerage
Price: Din per m3       Surcharge: Din per m3
Other                       Other
Date       Household    Consumers   Household      Consumers
January 1, 1976    3.00         6.00        1.50          3.00
January 1, 1977    3.50         7.00        1.75          3.50
January 1, 1978    4.00         8.00        2.00          4.00
January 1, 1979    4.25         8.50        2.25          4.50
January 1, 1980    4.50         9.00        2.50          5.00
January 1, 1981    4.60         9.20        2.55          5.10
January 1, 1982    4.70         9.40        2.60          5.20
January 1, 1983    4.80         9.60        2.65          5.30
January 1, 1984    4.90         9.80        2.70          5.40
January 1, 1985    5.00        10.00        2.75          5.50
January 1, 1986    5.10        10.20        2.80          5.60
January 1, 1987    5.20        10.40        2.85          5.70
January 1, 1988    5.30        10.60        2.90          5.80


