CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBERS 1264-1 YU
1264-2
1263
PROJECT COORDINATION AGREEMENT
(Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project)
(Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
anLd
SKUPSTINA GRADA SARAJEVA
(City Assembly of Sarajevo)
Dated June 8, 1976


﻿PROJECT COORDINATION AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and SKUPSTINA GRADA SARAJEVA (City Assembly of Sarajevo) (here-
inafter called the City Assembly).
WHEREAS (A) Preduzece Vodovod i Kanalizacija Sarajevo (Sara-
jevo Water Supply and Sewerage Enterprise) (hereinafter called
Vodovod) is an organization of associated labor established and
existing in accordance with its Self-Management Agreement dated
December 27, 1973, as amended on May 23, 1975, responsible, inter
alia, for water supply, sewerage and drainage systems in the City
of Sarajevo;
(B) Preduzece za transport i distribuciju gasa Sarajevo
(hereinafter called Sarajevo Gas) is an organization of asso-
ciated labor with independent legal status established by a de-
cision dated May 8, 1975, of the City Assembly of Sarajevo pub-
lished in the Sluzbene Novine Grada Sarajeva dated May 9, 1975,
to be responsible for the construction and operation of a gas
transmission line from Zvornik to Sarajevo, and a related gas
distribution system in Sarajevo;
(C) "Naftagas" Kombinat Naftne Industrije Novi Sad "Gas"
Radna Organ4zacija Transporta Prerade Primene i Prometa Gasa sa
Solidarnom Odgovornoscu Novi Sad (hereinafter called the Nafta-
gas Gas Unit) is an organization of associated labor with inde-
pendent legal status within "Naftagas" Kombinat Naftne Industrije -
Novi Sad (hereinafter called NAFTAGAS), an oil and gas enterprise
with headquarters at Novi Sad;


﻿-2-
(D) By the Loan Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Vodovod Loan Agreement) between the Bank and Vodovod,
the Bank has agreed to make a loan to Vodovod in an amount equiva-
lent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Vodovod Loan), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Vodovod Loan Agreement;
(E) By the Loan Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Gas Loan Agreement) between the Bank, party of the first
part and Sarajevo Gas and the Naftagas Gas Unit, parties of the se-
cond part, (all such parties of the second part hereinafter some-
times collectively called the Borrowers) the Bank has agreed to
make a loan to the Borrowers in an amount equivalent to thirty-
eight million dollars ($38,000,000) (hereinafter called the Gas
Loan) on the terms and condiLions set forth in the Gas Loan
Agreement;
(F) The City Assembly has established the Zavod za Izgradnju
Grada Sarajeva (Institute for Construction of the City) (hereinafter
called the Institute), to be responsible for the physical develop-
ment of the Sarajevo urban area, and has designated the Institute
as the agency which will exercise on behalf of the City Assembly
overall responsibility for the coordination of construction for
the project described in Schedule 2 to the Vodovod Loan Agreement
and for Part I of the project described in Schedule 2 to the Gas
Loan Agreement (hereinafter called the Vodovod and Sarajevo Gas
Projects);


﻿-3-
(G) The Bank has agreed to enter into the Vodovod Loan
Agreement, and the Gas Loan Agreement only on condition, inter
alia, that the City Assembly agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the City Assembly, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Vodovod Loan Agreement, and the Gas Loan Agree-
ment, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-4-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Vodovod Loan Agreement, and the Gas Loan Agreement, in the
Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as de-
fined in such Loan Agreements) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Execution of the Vodovod
and Sarajevo Gas Projects
Section 2.01. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
City Assembly shall ensure that the Institute will have overall
responsibility on behalf of the City Assembly for coordinating
the construction of the Vodovod and Sarajevo Gas Projects, al-
though the supervision of such construction shall be the respon-
sibility of Vodovod and Sarajevo Gas, respectively.
Section 2.02. The City Assembly unconditionally undertakes,
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds
available to Vodovod or Sarajevo Gas will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out respec-
tively of the Vodovod and Sarajevo Gas Projects, to make arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide Vodovod or
Sarajevo Gas, as the case may be, or cause Vodovod and Sarajevo
Gas to be provided, with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
Section 2.03. (a) The City Assembly covenants that it will
not take or cause or permit any of its organs to take any action
which would prevent or interfere with the performance by Vodovod
or Sarajevo Gas of any of their respective obligations contained
in the Vodovod Loan Agreement or the Gas Loan Agreement and will
take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or ap-
propriate to enable Vodovod and Sarajevo Gas to perform such
obligations;


﻿- 6 -
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section 2.03, the City Assembly shall tak-- qll such action,
including the approval of applications on the part of Vodovod or
Sarajevo Gas for tariff increases, as shall be required to enable
Sarajevo Gas to meet its obligations under Section 6.06 of the
Gas Loan Agreement and to enable Vodovod and Sarajevo Gas, respec-
tively, to generate the revenues necessary to meet the requirements
of Section 5.04 of the Vodovod Loan Agreement and Section 6.04 of
the Gas Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. Within twelve months of the Effective Date of
the Vodovod Loan Agreement, the City Assembly shall, in order to
safeguard against pollution, make arrangements with Vodovod to take
all necessary measures to establish protection zones for the City's
groundwater sources.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
City A3embly shall take all such action as may be required to
cause individuals and entities presently using polluting fuel in
the City of Sarajevo to convert promptly to natural gas in areas
where it is available and when it becomes available and shall
strictly enforce its air quality regulations following the intro-
duction of natural gas to the City.
Section 2.06. (a) The City Assembly shall, at the request
of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of the Vodovod and Sarajevo Gas Projects, the perfor-
mance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other mat-
ters relating to the purposes of the Vodovod Loan and the Gas
Loan.


﻿-7-
(b) The City Assembly shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of such Projects, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Vodovod Loan and the Gas Loan, or the performance by the City
Assembly of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
City Assembly shall make arrangements, by a date not later than
December 31, 1977, for the establishment of a revolving fund or
funds of not less than 30,000,000 Dinars in the aggregate, to
provide loans to householders on commercial terms to meet the
costs of converting to, purchasing, or installing, gas-fueled
appliances.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Vodovod Loan Agreement, or the Gas Loan
Agreement becomes effective, whichever is the earlier.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the City Assembly thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Vodovod Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms or the date
on which the Gas Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with their terms, whichever occurs
later;
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Vodovod Loan Agreement or the Gas Loan Agreement
terminates in accordance with their terms before the date specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly no-
tify the City Assembly of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full f6rce and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Vodovod Loan Agreement, or the Gas Loan
Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the City Assembly:
Skupstina Grada Sarajeva
ul Mis Irbi 1.
71000 Sarajevo
Cable address:
Skupstina Grada
Sarajevo


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be takce,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the City Assembly may be taken or
executed by the President of the City Assembly or such other per-
son or persons as the City Assembly shall designate in writing.
Section 5,03. The City Assembly shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated spec-
imen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
the City Assembly, take any action or execute any documents re-
quired or permitted to be taken or executed by the City Assembly
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Martijn J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SKUPSTINA GRADA SARAJEVA
By /s/ Ante Sucic
Authorized Representative


