Report No. PIC3205
Project Name              Tajikistan-Pilot Poverty Alleviation (@)
Project
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Poverty Reduction
Project ID                TJPA44202
Borrower                  Republic of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency       Tajikistan Social Investment Fund (TASIF)
(to be established)
Date this PID prepared    10/31/96
Appraisal Date            November 1996
Board Date                March 20, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Three basic problems face Tajikistan: considerable poverty among
the people, massive economic problems to be addressed, and a fragile
political situation and some continuing civil strife.
(a) Tajikistan is a small country (six million population) with an
estimated per capita income of around $350 in 1994. The low income
levels are mainly due to inherited poverty, the breakup of the
Soviet Union and economic decline since then. But for some groups,
the situation has also been made worse by the early stages of the
reform process, owing to the processes of price liberalization, the
removal of generalized subsidies, inadequately funded targeted
compensation measures.
(b) There are two fundamental economic problems: (i) the country
has a massive external debt with minimal export earnings; and (ii)
the economy is not yet stabilized and structural reforms are only
just getting started. Most industrial firms are currently
operating below one-third of their capacity. The state budget and
the current account deficit are unsustainably large, and inflation
has been rampant. The real value of monthly wages, when actually
paid, in 1995 was only about 5 percent of their level in 1990.
There are nearly one million workers who are either openly
unemployed or under/partially employed.
There is also a very fragile political situation. Severe internal
conflict lasted from May 1992 to early 1993. Over 50,000 people
were killed in the civil war and 850,000 became refugees. The
heaviest fighting was in Khatlon, where there was extensive
infrastructural destruction. The general security situation has
improved over the last year or so, but the military is still omni-
present and there are still outbreaks of fighting. Peace talks are
now taking place between the Government and the opposition.
2.   In considering the extent of the social problems, three other



factors are important:
(a) The country is far from homogeneous: internal communications
are stretched thin; the industrialized north (Leninabad oblast) is
in deep economic stagnation; the more agricultural southern oblast
of Khatlon suffered some of the worst fighting and extensive
destruction in the recent political unrest; the east is relatively
isolated and sparsely populated, while parts of the center are
still under contested authority. These internal economic divisions
are compounded by ethnic tensions in the competition for state
power.
In the last two years, there has been a significant increase in
externally supported relief and increasingly some development
activities. In particular, various international NGOs have started
starting to implement development projects and activities. some of
which have demonstrated considerable potential for sustainable
poverty alleviation. Overall, there is considerable need for
developmental and labor-intensive projects, as much external
assistance effort is essentially relief in nature. There is need
to build up of national, indigenous institutions and NGOs, many of
which exist but which are still very limited in scope, and to
support the government in its efforts to address the crucial
problems of poverty and national integration.
Although there is some deep urban poverty, by far the greatest
incidence of poverty is in the rural areas. Basic needs of
security, shelter, food and clothing are widely unmet, and the
restoration of family incomes and basic livelihood needs take
priority over the collapsed health and education systems.
Objectives
3.   The project objectives are (i) to create a rapid, although modest,
positive impact on the incomes of the poor (reaching about 5 percent of
the population), and general purpose of the project will be to alleviate
poverty and create gainful employment for the poorest groups of the
population; (ii) to develop national and local capacity to implement
participatory approaches to poverty alleviation and (iii) to demonstrate
successful poverty alleviation initiatives and programs for further
replication.
Project Description
4.   The two-year project has two linked components: (a) the scaling up
of selected existing poverty alleviation programs carried out by certain
international NGOs, together with documentation and training for wider
replication, and (b) the establishment of the TASIF, and the funding of
an initial set of about 70 microprojects which it will support.
(a) Four NGO projects were selected for scaling up: (i) shelter
and housing for 2000 families (Save the Children-US [SCF-US]));
(ii) micro-credit Group Guarantee Loans and Savings program (SCF-
US); (iii) economic support to productive activities of female-
headed households (Save The Children-UK [SCF-UK]); (iv)
- 2 -



Agricultural reform and Seed Multiplication Programme (Aga Khan
Foundation [AKFI and Pamir Relief and Development Programme
[PRDPI). Further NGO activities may be identified for support
during the second year of the project.
(b) The TASIF component has two sub-components: (i) institutional
development of the TASIF through provision of vehicles, equipment
and salaries to an organization set up within the Prime Minister+s
Office but operating under a board and independently of the civil
service; and (ii) support to about 70 micro-projects, of which 10-
15 would be implemented during the first year of the project, to be
implemented by local communities or organizations, and expected to
cover: essential rehabilitation needs including social
infrastructure (housing, waste water canal cleaning, irrigation
systems repair, reconstruction of schools and health points;
environmental projects such as reforestation, terracing, flood and
mud-slide prevention); and small-scale entrepreneurial activities.
Implementation
5.   Implementation of the first project component would be by the
respective NGOs under service contract to TASIF, and using standard
procurement procedures; implementation of the second component would be
by local communities or local/regional governments or NGOs, under direct
contract with TASIF.
Financing
6.   Financing would be by US$10 million IDA credit with [about $1.4
million local financing].
Poverty Category
7.   Program of targeted Interventions.
Environmental Aspects
8.   The project has been rated Category B.   Each project sub-component
has individual environmental aspects. The SCF shelter and house program
restores the built environment, replaces the past use of asbestos
roofing sheets with environmentally sounder tiles, and has no adverse
environmental impacts. The Group Savings sub-component and the support
to Female-Headed households encourages small-scale income generation
activities which are either environmentally neutral, or beneficial as in
the case of encouragement of low external input farming systems and food
production in place of high agrochemical input cotton production. The
farming systems and seed multiplication program in the east does make
minimal use of fertilizers and chemicals for seed preservation, which
will be monitored in the context of a program that aiming to promote
sustainable agricultural systems for small farmers.
9.   Institutional support to TASIF is environmentally neutral;
microprojects to be supported under TASIF will be individually screened
for environmental impacts according to criteria to be included in the
Operations Manual, which will exclude support for projects with adverse
-3 -



environmental impact unsupported by mitigatory actions.
Sustainability
10. The project aims at rehabilitation and sustained poverty reduction;
many of the interventions are therefore +one-off+ removal of constraints
to poverty alleviation and the encouragement of a participatory
development process that, in the long run, should prove sustainable.
The program as a whole, however, will depend on external inputs if the
process and coverage is to continue beyond the two years pilot phase.
Social Aspects
11. The project is based on the findings of a social assessment, and
has major elements explicitly targeted at assisting the most vulnerable
(women, ethnic minorities, female headed households, disadvantaged
regions). It aims to foster social integration, reconciliation, and
strengthening of local elements of civil society, including NGOs.
Program Objective Categories
12. Poverty Reduction
Contact Point:       Michael Mills, Task Manager, EC3HR
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-7870
Fax No.: (202) 477-0954
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 4 -



