Document of
The World Bank
17'C%D ('kEEUTI'T A T T WE CICnXTT XJ
FORJL OJFF~TCAL. USEL O.NLY 
Report No: 24368
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29460; T F -2568i)
ON A
CREPDTT
WThT 'T'TrlrY  A 1LXd-1T~T1T. i r%lrC'rVT%   0  17 XXXT  Y ifd'%IL
I N TLHE AMVIOUNTi ur aSDR 8.7 ivi.LLION
(US$12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
RFPuRTIC nF TA TIKTSTAN
Tnf-Y" A
r %J 1%ti
PILOT POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
06./24!2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
liThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 12, 2002)
Currency Unit= Tajik Somoni
I TJS= US$0.37
US$ I = 2.70 TJS
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AKF           Aga Khan Foundation
ARSP          Agricultural Recovery and Social Protection Project
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EpBI)         Fiirnnean Ranlc for Recnnstnritinn and Develonment
EU            European Union
FHH           FeIm.-ale HeaAdA H1ousehld
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GBAOX         G-orr,o-Badahhshian Autonom,o1L1us ObFlast
GGLS          Group Guaranteed Loans and Savings
GNiPr         Gross National Product
IBTA          Institution Building and Technical Assistance Project
iMF           international Monetary Fund
MIS           Management Information System
PHRD          Population and Human Resources Development (grant)
PPAP          Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project
PRDP          Pamir Relief and Development Program
SCF-UK        Save The Children Fund (UK)
SCF-US        Save The Children Federation (US)
TASIF         Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNHCR         United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
ITSATD        I Inited States Agencv for International Develonment
WFP           World Food Program
IT,~             T L...-  T-'--~ rA  yn*
vice President:  junniiiies r. Liuil, ECAv r
Country Manager/Director:  Dennis de Tray, ECCO8
Sector Manager/Director:  Michal Rutkowski/Annette Dixon, ECSHD
I a1 e i 4aiii L,LdUMO siI I aMr ivianlagr:.  MVichael Mills, AECSHD 



TAJIKISTAN
Pilot Poverty Alleviation
CONTENTS
age NoIV.
I. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                     6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                      10
6. Sustainability                                                          12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                           13
8. Lessons Learned                                                         14
9. Partner Comments                                                        16
10. Additional Information                                                 18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                       19
Annex 2 Prniert Costs annd Financing                                       21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                       23
Ann ex 4. Bank Inpus                                                       24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components       27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bark ar.d Bor-nower DPerforr.ance                     2
r-U1LIL;A  V. I%.4LLib vi. L,iaiKr aiiu  L-PUIJ I  I V.IiIial..
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                      29
Annex 8. neneficiary aurvey Resulis                                        30
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                      31






|roLec ID: P044202                    ILProiect Name: Pilot Poverty Alleviation
lTon,te 1 nd,r ?xC-1 M; pl Vijlle     IITI I/!,, EPCHD-l1
|tCR T  e Intensive Learning ICR       Iyort Date. June 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name.         Pilot Poverty Alleviation        L/C/TF ANumber:  IDA-29460; TF-25681
Countrv/Degpartmnert:      REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN                   Region:  Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector:      SF - Social Funds
KEY DATES
Original       Revised/Actutal
PCD:        01/26/1996                Effective:                          07/18/1997
Appraisal:        021261;997                   MTR:                                VI/0/19
Approval:         04/10/1997                 Closing:        6/30/2000          06/30/2002
Bonoier/lImplementing Agency:    Republic of Tajikistan/Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
(TASIF
Other Partners:   USAID; Aga Khan Foundation; Save The Children (US); Save
The Children (TUI)
PresiAden                      anes                                  _1A App__rais
|Vice President.            io         Lin                           ohannes F. Linn
lCountry Manager:          ||ennis de Tray                     ][    shrat Husain 
jSector Manager:           ||Michal J. Rutkowski                I -|| obert Liebenthal
P           Ata: Laeat________Mi!__________
jICR Priznmmy Aithor:       Dinah McLeod, Michael Mills        if   f
2. Principal Performance Ratings
HS=Highliy Satisi^actory, S=Saiisfiactory, U=Unsatisfiactory, HU=Highly Un.satus-faCtoyLO Highl Likey L=ikly T.=nie
HUN=Highly Unlikely; H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible
Outcome:             S
Sustainability:          L
Institutional Development Impact:         M
Bank Peiformance:            U
Borrowver Peiforniance:          U
QAG (if available)    ICR
Quality at Entry:     S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time:     Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Taiikistan came to independence with relatively 'well developed human development
indicators and individual capabilities, but also with widespread material poverty. The literacy
rates were at the level of highly ind1uctrinli7i7d onirntrii-s infant mnrtnlitv rates were 1nw; mnid
access to education and health services was free and almost universal. However, these standards
were l1argelly thC rnesul1t _of substantial bu-Aea- +-r trnfrs frm Mloscow. Soon alle independence,
Tajikistan entered a period of civil conflict and massive economic decline. The country lost its
traditional markets for imports aiiu exports, anu aiso suiifUed IUoIII LIIt eLU oI uUUgeta y litaisifrs
from Moscow. These developments led Tajikistan to economic collapse. GDP declined
precipitously and infiation soared after 1991. At the same time, the Government budget shrank
drastically, and between 1992 and 1997, Government's revenue as a percentage of the GDP was
reduced by more than half. T hese events had an adverse effect on the material welfare of people,
and also on their capacity to live a healthy and secure life. The conflict disrupted people's lives
and destroyed the civil society; the economic decline worsened the already high levels of poverty,
and created pockets of deep distress and social exclusion; and the sharp decline in public
spending reduced the Government's ability to assist needy people and to provide basic services
such as education and health to all.
The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Tajikistan, discussed by the
Board on May 16, 1996, highlighted the risks associated with political and economic instability in
the countrv and called for a flexible approach to the Bank Groun's assistance program. Its gnals
were to arrest the intensification of poverty through measures designed to foster a supply
response, based on ermpleyunm,pnt intpnsivep nrrnxxt1-, nombihined with direct stps. tn protPe-t tbhe
country's most vulnerable groups. The massive problem of poverty was also recognized in the
B1ank1 G -ru' seon - Countr;--+ Assistanc Q-teO  (AS whic Ia p,-eare    --A 199 zdwic
IJ  &I %.JIVUUJ  2 D%.AJLLU_ %...AU11LLY f"22a1'.'. ULaLIr.~Y I WFJJ 'III~Ll -"a2 y  jai11 1U  "Mi   WIII'.,1I
stated that "...the problem of poverty remains severe and will be the focus of assistance efforts
ior many yea[s Lo UoIIe.
T he design of the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP) was based on the following
realities: (a) there was an urgent need to address the poverty problem directly, to revive economic
activity at the local level and to get some productive incomes into poor households; (b) there was
a severe lack of services and a considerable backlog of maintenance to be carried out on the
country's basic infrastructure; (c) the institutional capacity of the Government was extremely
weak, and the Govemment budget envelope was so constrained that there would not be more than
a marginal impact on the poor from only improved targeting of public resources; (d) both the
Bank Groun and other donors had relatively limited onerational exnerience in the countrvy (e in
contrast, some international NGOs were already then active in the country and they did have
snmor imnlpmpntatinn cpna'itv and ynxpripiinre in drheonnrn.ent pnr orwmc.- and (f) there wase need
to create indigenous capacity for carrying out poverty-focused development programs, but the
cop1ing dIand sur  srtge adopted by the peopl ther..selve b      upon.
Tne development o'bjective of tne PPAP was to increase, on a sustainable basis, tne
incomes of the poor, and improve their access to essential economic and social services. The
strategy adopted by the PPAP was to: (a) provide support for the scaling-up and replication (over
a three-year period) of a few selected programs operated by international NGOs which already
had significant poverty alleviation impact; and (b) build up the national capacity for designing,
2



carrying out, and evaluating community-based projects through the establishment of a social
investment fund and associated institutional development activities. This strategy was clearly
articulated and was consistent with the CAS. The targets were for the project to have a modest
though relatively quick impact on the incomes of approximately 250,000 people; and to develop
capacity at the national and local level to implement participatory approaches to poverty
alleviation.
The PPAP was amone the first projects that the World Bank financed in Taiikistan.
Along with the PPAP, the World Bank provided assistance through the Institution Building and
Technical Assistanre Proiect (MA 28610) and thR Aarinii1tural Recverv and SOGijl Protection
Project (IDA 29170), which aimed to reduce poverty through policy and structural reforns of the
onr,rririlfvrp oA scnial tprotmon sctos asnrc  ve --11s the business seo+r- The fon-, alcs -r-rnAaA
assistance through the Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project (IDA 30370) to support
th   oe+.mn and A     Unite T ajik- poI-\ o  i .h_i_;.._eta;o   of theI :_-,  1997pec
LIl%.. '.JJUV%1IIIIIIL 411U UK;; %L)IILI-U .1ajir. k..JjPUVILIVII III UIVU 1III1IIemen'Ia-LiIVI VI LIIC; 1771 JUL
agreement. Significant contributions were made by other members of the donor community, in
particular, the major uiN agencies i'uiNPI, UINHnCR, wrr, UINLDHA, wriOLu, uINILCEF), as well as
a large number of non-governmental organizations (NGOs).  The PPAP itself received
complementary support from a Japanese PHF<D Grant of US$500,000 signed in 1997 to cover
technical assistance and training costs associated with project preparation. The PHRD grant was
split into two separate parts, one (TF29682; US$249,000 approved; US$189,500 disbursed)
executed by the Bank, and the other (TF29714; US$251,000 approved; US$135,617 disbursed)
executed by the Government/Tajikistan Social Investment Fund (TASIF). USAID provided
US$245,100 for additional micro-projects, as well as support for a long-term management advisor
to the TASIF. These funds were completely utilized.
The project's objectives were fully appropriate given the country's economic outlook, the
Government and Bank's develoDment strategies. the lack of government and local NGO
institutional capacity, and most importantly the alarming level of poverty in Tajikistan.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of the PPAP were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The PPAP, at a total cost of US$12.7 million, proposed to finance the following
components:
(1)    Scaling up of Poverty Alleviation Programs (US$3.2 million). This component had five
subcomponents:
(a)    The Shelter and House Rehabilitation Program (run by Save The Children Federation
(US): SCF-US; US$3.2 million) would assist 2,000 poor and previously displaced families in five
districts through self-help reconstruction of their homes devastated by the civil war. The project
would support essential structural repairs (walls and roofs) through the provision of essential
roofing materials (timber, nails; tiles)> and through the distribution of fond for work to local work
brigades, including home owners. Local project organizers would target the neediest families
with local participation, andl locral communic ws -ould a-sist in the construction monltonn and
distribution of food and materials.
3



(b)    The Micro-Credit (Group Guarantee Loans and Savings) Program (carried out by Save
The Children Federation (US); US$1.0 million) would provide access to credit and mobilize
savings for 3,750 poor women by supporting existing activities in the Kurgan-Tube district and
expanding the NGO's outreach to the Vose district. Savings would be introduced as a component
of the expansion. The management of existing groups would be restructured into an independent
local NGO or financial services institution that could operate a micro finance program
independently to sustain noor women's access to credit. The Droject would sunnort a loan fund of
US$300,000; the training of staff in financial management; a management information system
(MIS); and the formation and training of 250 gyoups of wornmen clients (!8-20 women in each
group) for borrowing and savings.
(c)    The Program of Support to Female-Headed Households (Save The Children Fund (UK):
SCF-uK; USw$1.0 million) wouid provide tne provision of agricultural assets and strenginen tne
capacity of social services to provide some 3,700 female-headed households (FHHS) with access
to, and ownership of, agricultural assets (such as livestock, seed and tools) as well as technical
advice. Approximately 2,100 of the female-headed households would be in Vaksh, and 1,600
would be in four other districts. The program would also include informing clients of their legal
rights, existing social services and assistance programs.
(d)    The Agricultural Reform Program (carried out by the Aga Khan Foundation: AKF;
US$0.6 million) would expand the area under food crop production in the Gorno-Badakhshan
Autonomous Oblast (GBAO); increase food crop production and productivity in GBAO; establish
and support private farm management; and develop human and institutional capacity in the
agricultural sector in the oblast. Some 1.600 farmers would participate in the construction of
irrigation channels and the development of new land in six of GBAO's seven districts. The
construction of 32 irrigation schemes (108 k ilom.eters of channels) wniild enahle an inrreas in
the area of privately managed land by some 3,900 hectares.
(e)    Future sponsored activities (US$1.6 million). Additional funding would be allocated to
these prOgrams if they contirLued to be successful or to other programs that met the same criteria
at the end of the first year of the project. Some of this additional funding could also be allocated
to micro-projects under tne I ASIr, if appropriate.
(2)    Tajikistan Social Investment Fund (US$4.2 million). This component had two sub-
components:
(a)    Development of the Tajikistan Social Investment Fund (US$1.5 million).  This
subcomponent would support the development of the TASIF through the provision of equipment,
salaries, training, technical assistance, and financing for monitoring and evaluation. The project
would also enable the TASIF to make available some technical assistance and training to local
governments, small contractors- NGTO staff and other active community members to heln them
plan, manage, and implement micro-projects and to participate in competitive bidding. Whenever
possible, thedev A eryi of tpch.nical cimpnprt xurl, b- contrarcted to nqulifiei lgrpa! firme or
qualified individuals.
(b)    Micro-projects (US$2.5 million). During the first year of the project, 10-15 pilot micro-
projects would be implemented in order to train stalf and test and modify the targeting,
promotion, appraisal, approval, supervision, monitoring and evaluation procedures that would be
elaborated in the operational manual. Eligible projects would include: (a) social infrastructure,
such as waste water canal cleaning, irrigation repair, pump replacement, small water and
4



sanitation stations, public baths and latrines, and reconstruction of kindergartens, schoois and
health points (especially in war-affected or remote villages); (b) environmental projects, such as
reforestation, terracing, flood and mud-slide prevention; and (c) entrepreneurial activities, such as
small loans to micro-enterprises, and processing of fruits and vegetables. Pending successful
results, an additional 50-60 micro-projects would be financed.
The components were adequately designed to achieve the objectives of the project and
took into account the initially extremely weak administrative, technical and financial management
capacity of the TASIF. Designing a program that used international NGOs as service providers
allowed the nroiect to make full use of the few novertv reduction resources available to deliver
assistance quickly to those most in need. The choice of a social fund, which, in theory, is
independent of Goverriimpnt infl.uence in its day-today activities, as one of the project's main
implementing agencies was appropriate given the situation in the country. Social fund activities
werI'.Le LCG urling proUjectI L Fz ,jaJI  anll Lthe desal JI of LaLUL  "'oO ULLs lf t '
findings from the field. Possible risks and problems with project implementation were identified
early anu re[iecteu in the p-ruj-ect documLLentatiLon andU design.
3.4 Revised Componets:
The original components of the PPAP were not revised. However, there was additional
funding provided for micro-projects from the unallocated sub-component for "future sponsored
activities". With the declaration of "force majeure" by Save The Children-US, it was also agreed
that the TASIF would take over responsibility for the implementation of the remaining part of the
shelter program.
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
The PPAP was prepared in response to the Government's request for poverty alleviation
assistance to be delivered urgentlv to the countrv's noorest citizens. It was undertaken in close
collaboration with UN agencies, the representatives of the international donor community in
Tajiki'stan, the Aga Khan Foundation and Save The Children fol ndations, and other non-
governmental organizations. An identification mission was carried out in May 1996, a social
assessment was then underA-ken And he appraisal mission took place in November !996. The
Bank's Board of Directors approved the operation on April 10, 1997. The project was declared
efi'ectilve on J'uly I18, I19971.
A Quality at Entry Assessment was undertaken in December 1996, and it rated most
aspects of project design and supervision as satisfactory or highly satisfactory. Reviewers noted
in particular that there was good use of existing international NGOs, and that the preparation
process had been handled well. It also noted that the project was high-risk for several reasons
(including security and political issues), and that the social fund might be subjected to political
pressure. Lack of capacity of the social fund was noted specifically as a risk factor, and the need
to build capacity was seen as a priority. The Quality at Entry Assessment also noted that the
Government's commitment to the PPAP was extremely high at project commencement, with the
potential for the project to have a significant institutional impact.
5



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofobiective:
The PPAP's goals were for the project to have a modest though quick impact on the
incomes of approximately 250,000 neonle. and to develop capacity at the national and local level
to implement participatory approaches to poverty alleviation. Overall, the conclusion of this
rponrt ic that thPre vrac a eticfanrtor, achipvprnmpnt nf the nrnojprt's nhiprthv.e. Th.e nroject met andi
exceeded its outreach goals, as it reached over twice the original number of beneficiaries through
m1iLWV-pLUJC% adIIU I11LH..L-I itU1L 1ii.L1at V%.a, wILII 1847 1,LIL4UjFtJsJ.L0 11i1peImenteLdU cLJL1LFQII tL LI.)
target of just 70. While much remains to be done in building national and local capacity to
implement participatory approaches to poverty alleviation, ihe project developed soml1e im,portant
initial capacity, particularly in the TASIF, to implement further community-based poverty
alleviation initiatives. Tinese achievements are considerable given the difficulties of the country
environment, and the fact that the PPAP was one of the first World Bank lending operations in
Tajikistan.
However, there are two major caveats to this conclusion. First, while the overall outcome
anu acuievcmcnl of the ppAD are - atd a saiary, +thee w    siliii-  vaiation -- n
individual subcomponents. Two of the four international NGO programs financed by the PPAP
were highly succssfu:IU  LIIC rCIiaIC flaUHe U HdeIUIIUIU HrUgi,IiL iLIpIcHIteneU by SaUve Lith
Children Fund-UK; and the Aga Khan's Agricultural Reform Program. Another of the programs
was satisfactory: tne Group Guaranteed Lending and Saving (GGLS) Program implemented by
Save the Children-US. However, the shelter program (SCF-US) was not successful, and the
TASIF eventually took over the program after the withdrawal of SCF-US in order to complete it.
Second, TASIF's 4-year history was also one of considerable problems as well as
significant institutional achievements. In 1999, it was increasingly clear that the organization had
serious management and institutional problems, and these came to a head in 2000 and continued
until early 2001. After consultations between the President of Tajikistan and the Regional Vice
President of the World Bank in late 2000 and early 2001, the TASIF began to tum around and
there was a better atmosphere of cooperation between the TASIF, the Govemment and the World
Bank.   The project ended with a very encouraging improvement in working relations,
commitments to community-hased development a desire to continue the prncess of strengthenino
the TASIF further in the future, and the approval of a Second Poverty Alleviation Project on May
. !, I .VVA
I ,Ie,rePPAr Wda a veIy Ud inIgIUIIIr pIrojLe in L14l1n'y Ways, andU mostL LILL; LlengI1sI1  thatL It
encountered are now familiar to all World Bank task managers supervising projects in Tajikistan.
For example, the depth of poverty in itseif posed a consideraole chaiienge, aiong with the iack of
capacity at all levels to undertake poverty alleviation efforts. As with many other projects,
implementation was particularly difficult because of the Borrower's initial unfamiliarity with
World Bank guidelines and procedures, and the shortage of local staff with the necessary
knowledge and skills. The most critical and persistent challenges for the PPAP, however, were
the continuing problems of weak, overall and particularly, financial management, including
fraudulent disbursement applications, and lack of strong and consistent Government support.
These problems not only severely strained relations between the Bank and the Government, but
also hampered the project's ability to address key issues relating to institutional development and
community capnnitv hiiildino. For these reasonn, the fact that the PPAP was ahe to accomnlish
as much as it did may be seen as a considerable achievement. The closing date of the credit was
6



extended four times to June 30, 2002, to allow for the completion of components, to enact
improvements in financial management and to allow for a smooth transition to a second poverty
alleviation project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Two of the four international NGO programs financed by the PPAP were highly
successful. one was successful and one was unsuccessful. The TASIF's micro-proiect activities
were largely successful, though sustainability remains very uncertain. The impact of the
institution hiildincg Pffnrts ws modest andi the sustnirnai1i't nfthe TA.4TF will reqnuire cnntiniued
external support.
(1)    Scaling up of Poverty Alleviation Programs
(a)    The Shelter and House Rehabilitation Program (projected, US$3.2 million; actual US$2.7
million) was not successful. it was piagued by problems from its inception, including due to the
choice of tiles as roofing materials during the preparation of the project. This was a poor decision
given the nature of the mud wvalls and the earthquake prone zone. The component also faced
major delays in implementation and lack of counterpart funding. The responsible international
NGO decided to declare force majeure in October 1998, after a long delay in the timber delivery
as well as a change in the roofing materials. The component was subsequently taken over by
TASIF, and it was then decided to use the micro project approach to construct the remaining
1,000 houses. The TASIF then faced an additional problem as the supply of the roofing materials
for the houses was constantly delayed by the international supplier under the ICB contract.
Finally the TASIF requested the Bank to allow it to build the first 313 houses with procurement
of roof sheets locally through the contractors who were to build the houses. Roof sheets for
another 393 houses were eventuallv procured from another international supnlier. Some housing,
was completed (total 706 houses for 5,500 beneficiaries), although significantly lower numbers
than nredirted when SCF-TUS wns supnnnped tn imnlpmnpnt fully this nrniert UTnder the nr:cminal
design, it had been planned for only wall renovation and roofing to be undertaken, but it was
decided during project implementation that this approach wras insufficient and that m.ore
comprehensive rehabilitation of houses was needed. The target number of houses was therefore
reUUI. A .i LU JUl i,UU. I 1~IIUIk~ VI 11VUUl-- W.UU1U iiaVV UVE 4II aI'Z;VCU IL 41U~;L4UCILU LWUHIUI~LL
reucCd to jus;L 1,100. Illis numbe of_ hose coul hav been- achieve --aeut cutl,
funds had been made available. Finally, some of the remaining timber was provided to another
international INGO, Shelter Nlow- International (SNl), for its nousing program for refugees. Inis
was carried out efficiently: by joint efforts of TASIF and SNI, 56 houses in Kabodien region
(Khation area) for iDPs from Gorno-Badakhshan were rehabilitated.
(b)    The Micro-Credit (Group Guarantee Loans and Savings) Program (projected, US$1.0
million; actual, US$1.1 million) was successful. Management by the international NGO was
successfully turned over to a local NGO, "Sitorai Najot" (SN), which the TASIF continued to
support through a grant for overhead costs. While micro-credit was a small component of the
poverty alleviation strategy in terms of overall funding, it achieved some important successes:
30,182 (SC/US- 10.267; SN - 19. 915) loans were made to over 8,604 (SC/US- 4,250; SN -
4,354) clients; the loans reached the poor, the very poor and the vulnerable non-poor; SN
maintained the lowest average lnan hblance in Taiikistan; there was an impressive level of
portfolio quality which was consistently maintained; and SN was almost able to reach operational
cii ctaiir,,hili r TTJewolxuv.r thD~ nprbprhAl onctc nf' th.a rntp,-nat1irnn,  MC.n mrrl,A tha pnct_f4.,1- ,tivrvcc
~JOtnnAtJn&nLjs . * flJ  -s v SL  tzs 11  v s J Vi7i VL sA,sA  sJOt.,J  t*fl.--- tfllt zfi*%VflIf IA WV .J '.> *SflAf. vfl  tWsL%.ik.  t1
of the program questionable in the initial stage; the capacity of the TASIF to implement and
monitor m.icrocreudi projects remains weakc; andSN's 'lack of financial ma-agemert ca-pacity and7
7



high costs are low points in an otherwise nignly satisfactory component. un balance, the
outcome of the program is considered to be satisfactory.
(c)    The Program of Support to Female-Headed Households (projected, US$1.0 million;
actual, US$0.9 million) was also highly successful. A total of 3,700 female-headed households
received agricultural assistance, and 23 schools and 2 kindergartens were supported with income
generation projects. The program was successful in reaching the poor and vulnerable households
and communities, and community participation was particularly high. The experience of this
program led to the TASIF reviewing its own strategies for developing the sustainability of micro-
projects, and in cooperating with local govemment authorities.
(d)    The Agricultural Reform Program (nroiected- US$0 7million; actual- IS$0.7 million)
was highly satisfactory. The component financed 52 canals, and reclaimed 2,000 hectares of land
for agi.culural production. The results were increases in agricultural yields of 8000 percent .for
the area irrigated by the canals. The level of cooperation between the Mountain Societies
De' veloprrI.ent SUpport Lrograrir and the T  w as igh, ainu LtILh A  suypporLteU a sLUUy LVLUr fo
TASIF staff to its programs in Pakistan. Cooperation between the TASIF and the MSDSP also
leu to thle iniiation ol ihe TASir pilLo 11LrU-prrUJeCs l in GB3AO In Lthe period I999-20 1.
(2)    Tajikistan Social investment Fund (US$4.2 million)
(a)    Development of the Tajikistan Social investment Fund (projected, US$1.5 million;
actual, US$1.8 million). As noted above, the institutional development of the TASIF was not a
straightforward experience. On the negative side, the organization faced serious problems of
financial mismanagement, the irresponsibility of some staff, management weakness, and high
staff tumover. The most serious problem arose when the initial Executive Director was dismissed
by the Govemment without consultation with the World Bank, and when a new Executive
Director was appointed by the Government without following the required procedures and
particularly without any no-objection being given by the World Bank. This led to a period of
severe strain in the relations between the Govemment and the World Bank, which was only
resolved after the personal interventions of the President of Tajikistan and the Region2! Vice
President of the World Bank.
On the positive side, the TASIF has grown to be a major poverty alleviation organization
in lajipPtLaLl, Lth.eL vvaa a e1newU e-ILViL LU Leroain sLt affU Uan VdIjvp LeIL 01garlL1atiOn' insLiLULtionaUi
capacity during Years 2001 and 2002; the TASIF has a relatively capable procurement unit; and
tnc staIi nave suostantiai experience in community participation, the targeting of poor
communities, monitoring and evaluation, and the design and supervision of micro-projects.
Following the dismissal of the Executive Director who had been appointed in Year 2000 by the
Govemment without a no-objection being given by the World Bank, and with the appointment of
a new Director in Year 2001 following an acceptable competitive process, there was a major
improvement in staff morale and the tum-over of staff has dropped considerably.
(b)    Micro-projects (projected, US$2.5 million; actual, US$3.9 million).  Overall, the
implementation of the micro-projects is considered to be satisfactory. The number of successful
micro-projects and beneficiaries reached exceeded original exnectations- Originallv US$2.5
million was allocated to TASIF for micro-project implementation, with an expected 70 micro-
nrniprtc fnr 14 0nn npnnlf AftPr n nrniprWt rprPlit rp2l1nrtntinn nf TTRZ1 K millinn 1Q2A n,rnintc
covering approximately 600,000 people were implemented.
8



An extensive evaluation of the micro-project program was carried out in 1999, with
independent, external assistance. It found that: (i) the micro-projects met priority needs and there
was a high level of community satisfaction with them; (ii) community participation during the
implementation stage of micro-projects was strong, but participation in the other stages was
highly variable and appeared to depend on the size of the community, the role of the micro-
project committee and the nature of the micro-project; (iii) women tended to lack access to
information about the development of the micro-projects and their participation (except during
implementation) was particularly poor; (iv) the micro-projects may have contributed to a positive
shift in attitudes of communities and their sense of ownership of community projects; (v) even
after six months after nroiect comnletion. most micro-nroiect committees were still meeting
regularly and were taking steps (together with their communities) to attempt to address any
problems relating to the micro-pnrojerts; (vi) the micro-project committees worked uwith varving
levels of success depending on the leadership style of the committee, their working relations with
the cotmumuni-, the size of t.e cotm.,unity and 'the trUaining thatth.. Liey hIa vIe receivd I,t-. AS LJ
(vii) most beneficiaries appeared to know about the sustainability plan, but less than half of the
LoI.U11MIU1111e hadU 1i1ple,,iI1ILdU a viaUbl plan1 a41LU Lthe cUI1-ptILUII Uo Lthe 1I11%IU-pPojcICL) (viii) 1w0-
thirds of the evaluated projects were fully functioning, with an additional 25 percent partially
functioning; and (ix) tne Deneficiaries ciearly Delieved tna thne micro-projects were benefiting
their lives, both in terms of improvements in living conditions and in freeing up time for other
activities.
In Year 2000, there was a further evaluation of 56 micro-projects by the TASIF staff,
with the first stage being conducted 1-3 months after the technical hand-over of the micro-project,
and the second stage being conducted not earlier than 6-9 months after the first stage had been
completed. The evaluations focused on group discussions with the beneficiaries about the
sustainability and impact of the micro-project on the local community. The main conclusions
were that: (i) 98 percent of the community members felt-that the completed micro-project were a
priority for them; (ii) 94 percent of the community members were actually using the completed
micro-oroject: (iii) 87 nercent of the beneficiaries were familiar with the micro-project
sustainability plan; and (iv) 89 percent of the micro-projects were functioning fully after 6-9
months.
rn conclusion, it appears thait t -s-. technicai tjuLaIlJo tLhe, ,,,icoiojecF-tsLO was gera!
sound, though sustainability remains an important issue for future follow-up. The SIF structure
allowed for fast and      p-LO processing of mi'crUo-p-1oJects, even in the poores;  and also
potentially for project sustainability. The flexibility built into the project design meant that, when
unexpected circumstances arose aunng project implementation, ine project was aDie to respona
quite quickly. However, unforeseen difficulties associated with staff management and corruption,
tension between the TASIF management and Board, as well as the disagreements between the
Government and the World Bank on aspects of project implementation and supervision, led to a
slowdown in the implementation of some components. Nevertheless, despite the project
slowdown in Years 2000 and 2001, more micro-projects were implemented, and more
beneficiaries were successfully reached, than originally anticipated.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economnic rate of return:
An economic analysis was not carried out at project appraisal.
9



4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not calculated at project appraisal.
4.5 Institutional development imlpact:
It was envisioned that, by the time of the project's closing, the TASIF would have: (i)
developed sigmifiTant policymrmakVing scills; (ii) obtained data that would be helpful to improve the
Govemment's ability to design sound policies; and (iii) trained staff in World Bank procurement,
financial management, disbursem..ent, and Admn,  p +-+.-roced.  a   as irthe assessment
and evaluation of micro-projects, which would in tum assist the Govemment's work in future.
However, as U1S(cUSsU aUove, LhIe tXSLJC 1faUce lidily pro1UlUell. X I.e; Uorganization' s miianLagr,.ent
and institutional problems became increasingly apparent in 1999, increased substantially in the
following year, and continued untii eariy L200. Financiai mismanagement, the irresponsibility of
some staff and management weaknesses were constant challenges. Problems became so severe
that in December 2000 project cancellation was considered by the World Bank, but it was finally
rejected after top-level discussions with the Govemment, which pledged its commitment to the
PPAP and to an action plan to improve project performance.
After that point in time, the TASIF began to tum around and there was a better
atmosphere of cooperation between the TASIF, the Government and the World Bank. A new
interim Executive Director undertook a vigorous program of actions to revitalize TASIF. In
Years 2001 and 2002, the TASIF largelv adhered to a strict Financial Management Action Plan,
resulting in the extension of the project's closing date until the end of June 2002, and a marked
improvement in the onernfionn of the organization. The Acting Executive Director for the TASIF
was confirmed in his position in early 2002, after a competitive selection process. The end result
is a ft,gile, but s-UsfMinable, institutinn that tourlde!A ascict t.hp C.nupornpmnt ffirther in designingn
and implementing its poverty alleviation strategy, provided that the recent management actions
can be biuit uporn by the ExIielcutlV- Director, reinfocedw  consistent 'v...J e  anBard
support. Continued extemal support will also continue to be needed.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofsaovernmnenit or imiplementing agencv:
The most critical problems for the project arose from the combined effects of the tense
seciiritv situation and Tajikistan's macro-economic difficulties. The security situation was the
major reason for the declaration of force majeure by SCF-US regarding the shelter program, and
it also exace.rbated many of the governnance problems especially in the sioth of the conintrv
Security concems made mission planning difficult, as some missions sometimes had to be
cancelledu or L'Ie timring clhiangeU at shlort I noticC, adiu smir..LLL,,es Lthe.y prLeVented1114 full su .J 'JIsio ML
micro-projects in the field. Though the Government did its best to ensure the safety of staff and
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                 . 'F. .  CIT  >  o.rr  _ __rl___ :
otners, worKing conditions were consistently aangerous ior IA t-I staii. I nu precarious SecUHLy
conditions in Tajikistan made it very difficult to recruit high-quality international consultants to
assist TASIF in fhe numbers and length of time that would have been desirable. Ttose
consultants who were able and willing to assist in the project were required to comply with UN
travel restrictions, which often meant they were unable to leave Dushanbe, and the quality of their
work may have been compromised due to security conditions. The difficult security situation also
made mission planning problematic as arrangements sometimes had to be changed at short notice.
10



The macroeconomic constraints led to the very tight govemment budget situation and the
resulting problem of lack of counterpart funds (see below).
5.2 Within the control of the izovernment:
The Government was committed to the implementation of the project at the outset and at
the close. However, the project experienced significant delays midway due to a combination of
factors, including serious disagreements with the Bank over project implementation and financial
management issues. Most serious was the failure of the Government to follow the appropriate
selection process for the new TASIF Executive Director in Year 2000. Moreover, even when
relations were on a more harmonious footing, delays occurred due to reluctance or inability to
take necessar,  project decisions in a timely manner. Board meetings were often dIvelyd due to
the unavailability of key members (who occupied extremely senior positions). Despite being
provideA ..th. 41,_- dea-1 infor...nation, many, off the Board membe s did nt ha  a -friciently
piu V   %A.,  Wit!  Ui3l V fla ..*  UP..,LlhJl 5aft,  .in; 0  A.  .SO  IRI.ILL.fl   -I   L.-J  ...~   Llhf%fLI
clear understanding of the workings of a social investmnent fund and specifically the TASIF. This
was parly Ue to *LLe hCea-vy UUIcIhIL1CIILu adIU ULIohI WoIr UU11oblgaUtion V  laly ofI u11.l
Chief among the problems was tne issue of counterpart funding, wnicn was slow to
materialize and which was effectively halted midway through the project. As a result, many
micro-projects were under- or unfunded. First to suffer were the small contractors who were not
paid in full for their work on TASIF micro-projects. Nonetheless, the final months of the PPAP
saw an improvement in financial management and Government comrnitment to the project, with a
solution to the earlier shortfall of counterpart funds and agreement on the appointment of a new
Executive Director for the TASIF. Finally, there was a lack of clarity about the tax obligations of
international consultants. This issue took time to resolve, and IDA agreed to cover some tax
payments on a temporary basis pending the introduction of a revised procedure to implement
World Bank operational policy.
5.3 Within the control of the TASIF:
The rnncrpitv nf the TASIF staff atFnd govrnance wrP e i isenu   throuahmit miuch of
...-~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ __1_..  _. ...   _. --  -_  _-  _ _-.-c   wer   serious---  --  ---
the life of the project. This was evident first in the area of weak financial management, which led
t+.h A4-;-s...  of so..e of the stff i the Fin-acia! Depat,-.ent and tho "AAA for corrections to
ItO  LIII. tj,aili,aaaIlIIOlfi AIILIS -, 1±  III. ML! ...   IfIIIII!-..-I iItt,   L.---~ t  LS t~ltt L~AS
be made in disbursement application procedures. Although these factors were within the control
oiL iut - IAS13, .he siLUa1ion was exae.-batLeU by Lthe WlUiLage VI L.VUILklpaLL IUIIUlIar  110in l At.;
Government, which created pressure for inaccurate disbursement claims to be made to the World
Bank. Moreover, staff morale sufrerea adunng tne project-s more diiiicult pnases, and turnover
was high. Although staff and institutional capacity did increase by the end of the project,
weaknesses persisted, particularly in the areas of financial management and micro-project and
micro-credit monitoring and supervision. In addition, during Years 1999 and 2000 in particular,
there was severe tensions between the TASIF staff and the Board members. This was the result
of the Board members feeling insufficiently informed about the operations of the TASIF, and also
the difficulties of arranging Board meetings due to the busy schedules and other work priorities of
some of the Board members. The situation improved considerably towards the end of the project
period, especially when Board members were able to learn more about TASIF activities through
field trins etc.
5.4 onstsc nd fillcngrha.
I .e.-e was no cost ove-I Uan and Lthe. FrUjec-tL is .Jig c.IIIIVlted I Lat. MLh  i y agree cost
of US$12.0 million (IDA) equivalent with some US$350,000 undisbursed.
ii



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating.
Overall, the sustainability of the project has been rated as satisfactory. There are two
dimensions to this. First, at the micro-project level, it appears from both the 1999 and 2000
evaluations that the TASTF made a strong effort to achieve good participation of communities in
micro-projects, in the identification and selection of a community's priorities and in micro-project
imnlementation. Within those micro-nroiects where communitv involvement and "ownershin" of
projects are high, sustainability is likely, with communities highly motivated to maintain micro-
projects. TA Sl's initintive nf tnfe.fprring the tendenriig process to mic.ro%roject conmmittees for
selecting contractors, and having pre-tendering and bid evaluation and award conferences at the
comr.r.uni;- sites, is a tagil A-monsatn"n of its work, in -renE,.hXing, the paricipat-r.
LJIU UI IIL I 3L.3  I3  Langi1ule.  U-_.I1JI3 LaLJVll  VI  113 YLa WMI   III  3U'..L_ILLl..111L1a  LiI'..  FaI LIC.LaLuLy
processes. Considering the current and recent social and economic context of Tajikistan, the level
P              .      .J   'A  C'TT'_                   - .   .,.--a …_  --   Ir
o0 community participation reached in I tASir s micro projecis Ueserves Lo DU noteu as one of iLS
most important achievements.
However, not all of the micro-projects achieved sufficient buy-in from the beneficiary
communities, and some of the micro-projects are therefore in danger of falling into disrepair.
There is a need for further building up of the capacities of communities to operate and maintain
their micro-projects, and to help them to find ways to mobilize resources necessary to operate and
maintain them. There is also a need to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the government,
both central and local. However, some sustainability issues were beyond the scope of the project.
While TASIF-funded schools may be well-maintained by the communities that requested them,
for example, school textbooks and teachers, which are supplied by the consistently-underfunded
Ministry of Education, are often in short supply. A re-emergence of threats to security could
further compromise the sustainability of some of the micro-projects.
At the institutional level, the PPAP's prospects for sustainability improved considerably
t,owrAc thes nA nf the nrnipnt rrinA  At thA pnA n- Voor 10M, th rA AiA nnt onnpor tn hi on,,
iVETs~~~p- &Je         petiod.   At ...   end  _o V V _   VVxi __MXV  F0-- -   ..eV   V_ I--
"champions" for the TASTE in the senior realms of the Govemment, and project closure (and the
collapse ofC t,he TrA QTM  ere  ,..ie,.lJt h     esnlitreto A_       the P,-esd
c11a3  01  LILI  InwwijIL   b"~1I1Uk1Z1U LI1J.IL1V1tL.  VY IUII  L11IF  1XI.t0U1al 1I1L;I V;I1LIU11  0I  LIM: 17 1vrMUC1L,
however, and with his written endorsement of the importance of the TASIF in the country's
poverty reduction strategy, the prospects for the survival and further sirengthening of tne
institution increased substantially. This turn-around was then capitalized upon by the newly
appointed interim Executive Director; and by the end of Year Z2I, the sustainability ot the
TASTF as an institution had improved enornously. However, the TASTF is still a fragile
institution, and one dependent on a narrow financing base (presently the Government and IDA).
Staff capacity also remains weaker than might be hoped. Nonetheless, the project has supported
the establishment and building up of an institution that has already shown itself capable of
pioneering community-based development in an extremely difficult environment, and which has
considerable potential to continue helping the Government to develop and implement its poverty
reduction strategy, if continuing attention is given to addressing the outstanding management
issues.
6.2 Transition arrangement to r egutlar operations.
The PPAP was a pilot project that, if successful, would be followed by a second project
to continue financing the TASTi. it was envisioned inai ine TASir would become a primary
12



instrument in the Govemment's poverty alleviation strategy. A Second Poverty Alleviation
Project, with a second credit of US$13.8 million for the TASIF, was approved on May 21, 2002.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance, as observed in the project's 1996 QER, was satisfactory. The
-proUjelct was one ofr the- first lulfegdproje-ctss zin Tajikidstan, and Ah Ban - ae out, project
pIUJt..LW~1 ULI UtLLI~LII~ IU1LI~~U 1UJ~~L ai  1IUL1,Gu Lit%.. LJaILN V-I -  UL jJIVJL-%,L
identification, preparation, appraisal, and Board presentation in a difficult environment in a
comparatively short timeframe. Project preparation was completed in fiull agreement witi- the
Government's development priorities, and in close coordination with the other donors active in
Tajikistan, particularly the agencies of the UN system and the NGO community.
7.2 Sipervision:
World Bank staff made noteworthy and intensive efforts to ensure that the project was
implemented according to Bank guidelines and according to the original project objectives.
Many challenges were faced by the team. Some of these challenges were common to the
supervision of other projects in the portfolio: the limited World Bank supervision resources, the
lack of intemational technical assistance available and willing to travel to Tajikistan, security
concerns, and travel restrictions that prevented more regular visits to the more remote project
areas. However, the World Bank's performance during supervision was also severely strained by
a series of misunderstandings and disagreements between the World Bank, the TASTF Board and
the Govemment over project management issues. In particular, the project suffered from a lack
of supe.vision in eVa. 20AAA vhepn thpre wvas an imancsp hPetxiPpn tlGo ( e.n.prnrnp,t ndii the World
Bank over the selection of the new Executive Director for the TASIF. For this reason, even
UIhughII reLiUons iiiip.-veu Vy Lte endU VI the p1rJect"L, Lac,1iLaLting anL aJpJpiVjJaLte level and.Z LLntes31Ly
of supervision again, the Bank's supervision performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory, despite the sheer difficulty of
successfully implementing projects in Tajikistan. Also despite the genuine commitment that the
supervision team made to ensure that the project was implemented according to World Bank
guidelines and with maximum community participation, there was a failure to resolve sufficiently
quickly the extremely tense relationship between the World Bank and the Govemment, especially
in Year 2000. This stemmed from a lack of adequate communication and understanding between
the supervision team and the Govemment and TASIF Board. The result was a hardening of
positions on both sides, to the detriment of the project and its efficient implementation. The
issues were eventually resolved through the nersonal interventions of the World Bank Regional
Vice President and the President of Tajikistan. While it is comnmendable that this led to a
satisfactory conclusion to the project, the pesalation nf the issue shnould have hben avoietd and
the differences of opinion settled sooner and more amicably. This failure needs to be balanced
against the extreLCmely detailed and highly satisfactory monitoring that was done of the project, but
the overall conclusion is that the World Bank's performance was unsatisfactory.
13



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Initial Borrower performance was satisfactorv. The Quality-at-Entrv review undertaken
in 1996 gave the highest rating possible to the category "strength of borrower commitment to the
proiect;" as well as to countermart funding arrangements. The Borrower's contribution to nroiect
preparation was rated as satisfactory, as were the project's readiness for implementation with the
necessap1C2ry x 7,-rnrmrnt anprnvas1c
InIS cLatLgUly IS raLtU UsN UMsU,1cULUYtL0r  ior two reasons: (i) the persistent probICm U1
inadequate counterpart funding, and (ii) the Government's failure to follow an appropriate
selection procedure for the new TASiw Executive Director in Year 2000, the appointment of an
Executive Director without the Bank's "no-objection, and the refusal of the Govemment for
several months to correct the situation through an acceptable selection process. Fortunately,
solutions were found to both of these problems towards the end of the project, and even much of
the troubled shelter program was implemented by the end of the project. The country's fiscal
situation will inevitably cause continuing difficulties for the Government in making available
sufficient counterpart funds for IDA-supported projects in Tajikistan, and this issue should be
reviewed carefully as part of the formulation of the next country assistance strategy.
7.6 Iinleinentinz Aeencv:
TASIF performance is rated a unsatisfactonry, despite good progress in micro-project
implementation and other areas, due to persistent problems of poor project management and the
irresponsibility, of somre kystaff mrerr_.br hog .. c ....  the - -roec  r.pe...... -o- pe-o.-
At the same time, it again needs to be emphasized that the performance of the TASIF improved
substantially aLL%er early 2001 I, andtisu bode veryb V ell W for the LLL.LUC.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfLormance:
Since two of the three performance categories are rated as unsatisfactory, the rating for
Overall Borrower Performance is rated as nnsatisfh_tory.
8. Lessons Learned
The project was deliberately designed as a pilot, and it afforded many lessons, both good
and bad. On the positive side, the project confirmed that many communities are motivated to
work together in the selection and implementation of small infrastructure micro-projects, and that
they are willing to contribute to costs. Small private contractors emerged in response to the
competitive bidding procedure used by the TASIF, even in remote regions, and an acceptable
quality of work was produced in most cases. The most successful projects in terms of quality,
imnact and sustainabilitv were those in which the communitv was directlv involved in all sta(es
of micro-project design and implementation. Perhaps above all, the experience of the project
shows that the outconmp pupn of "nrohlprn, nrojpt-t" mayu be imprnoed subst,antia11!y txvhen there is
top-level focus and joint commitment to resolving sensitive relationship and procedural issues.
14



Along with these successes, the deep problems within the TASIF provided a wealth of
learning opportunities which need to be considered for the future. The institutional lessons
learned include the following:
High-level and sustained borrower commitment is of utmost importance. This appears to
have been reasonably strong at the outset of the project, but was not sustained during the
course of nroiect imnlementation. One of the major reasons for this was lack of clarity
about the respective roles and responsibilities of the TASIF management, the TASTF
Board, the- fg%wsrnrm.ent and tlhe MTA. T.his ic a conm..licanted issue, epcially'11 whe-n MA
funds are provided to a government and are then passed on to a social investment fund
focuseA on pov.-, reA ution, -And,hn - he.e is ;a B ordA cr.  a l%tI, --oth-gove.nt
LO ULU  tn  IJV   Ly  IUUcl4UII,  ULIIt  VILLIL Llltd'.  *o  a  -aiant  S.--JL ..... lOlil  -J..LZ - . .....
officials and non-government members. The situation was exacerbated by the fact that
Lnc I A>ir was nCwIy U.IidLU-, MGlov UUVeVIIImntI'llOU LU 1ncllUClnu0atU11 11-i-iiy uOtr ibssuebs
of national importance in the post-conflict environment; and the World Bank team staff
gave particularly strong emphasis to working with the TASir officials and to focusing on
poor communities as the "client". This led to a loss of ownership of the project among
government officials. Correspondingly, the Government then did not give high priority
to allocating sufficient amounts of its extremely limited budget to the required
counterpart funds for the TASIF, which in turn compounded the financial management
problems that the TASIF faced. It also led to a situation in which the issue of the
performance of the first Executive Director could not easily be reconciled between the
Government and the World Bank.
*      The continuing fiscal constraints facing the country will inevitably cause difficulties in
the future for the Govemment in making available sufficient counterpart funds for IDA-
supported projiets in Tajikisttan  This iuiie should, therefore, be reviewed carefully as
part of the fornulation of the next country assistance strategy.
*      Another institutional lesson learned is that it is also important to involve the local
govemment at an early sLage of project UdVe1UPllpl1L LU i IIoUIC n ure  11MMllnI.  eIII-C 15
need to coordinate service improvements with sector ministries to ensure the
rationalization and utilization of resources.
*      There is continuous danger of corruption, particularly in the financial management of
projects, and political interference has to be avoided especially when appointing key
TASEF staff. Although the TASTF followed World Bank procedures for the appointment
of its staff, there was a lack of due process in the dismissal of the first Executive Director
in Year 2000. The appointment of a proposed replacement by the Government was not
done in accordance with the World Bank guidelines, partly due to the lack of knowledge
in the government but also due to the deteriorating relations between the Government, the
TASTF Board and the World Bank over the implementation of the nroiect. The nroblems
of financial management became increasingly apparent by 1999, but action by TASTF
management to dismiss the staff concernred wvas delayed. This led to seriousg rnc
concerns and only qualified audit reports.
*      The TASTF needs strong management and leadership, and training is critically important.
in addition to the need to ensure the selection of the most appropriate staff, training is
extremely important at every level: within the TASIF, to build institutional capacity; in
the communities, to ensure they are capable of implementing and maintaining projects;
15



and witn intermediary NGOs, if used as implementing agencies, to ensure that tney are
equipped to deal effectively with their clients. In particular, it is necessary to invest in
project implementation capacity by financing the training of staff in World Bank
procedures. There is also need for high standard technical assistance to build capacity
rather than just carry out functions. However, at least some of the technical assistance
provided to the project may not really have been wanted by the TASIF or the
Government. The reasons for this were complex, but they were partly due to the cost,
partly due to mixed performance by some of the experts, and partly due to the feeling
that the experts may have been providing too much information directly to the World
Bank. In any event, this led to tension with the World Bank team which was rightly
concemed about its fiduciary responsibilities. In retrospect, it may be concluded that
there shoiild have been more training of the TASIF staff nerhanp counled with more
imaginative use of technical assistance (for example, through a series of short-term visits
Iand~ cor.bined ,Al,B t sdy~ tor, rahr h.n.b;.rl ogtr.)
Te lnigadric----oetlessons 'camle' nld hefloig
IL ILV IKI1U1IIr, 411U I11llLIo-pkuJVL I UI~ Z~1u iIII UU Ll1l~ IVI1UJWIllr.
*      Agreed operational procedures need to be followed throughout tne duration of the
project. For example, the investment plan is essential, and it needs to be updated
annually. It is also critically important for procedures regarding community participation
and tendering actually to be followed. All of the requirements for a micro-project need to
be fully addressed (for example, providing equipment for a school as well as the
building). Care should be taken to ensure that timetables are not rushed, simply for
institutional reasons, and that genuine community involvement and participation are
sought and developed. Micro-projects should be kept simple enough to be designed and
maintained by communities; and in some cases, a phased approach to micro-project
lending should be adopted.
T nocal co.mmunities in Tiilstatnn, even if verv nnnr and dizadv2nvtntged, are ahle and
willing to play a major role in the identification, preparation, execution and sustainability
ofr micr-oaprojecnt. HTAlowever, th- ineed tA -e -   that ...icroroeA-ts do not ex cludeA
UI  IQL,trjJIJLt.I.  flYYtV~1~ l%I.d~  la  U ttt   I'.  ~ LfU . --  .... "flhFu% J1 -aLtJ.tL   SAU  ..LU  - -LfJ
the poorest through an inappropriate level of required community contributions, and for
elter tvargeting andU outL[eacLI to ensure ilat projects hIlel p .Lhe ve 1y pUoUore.  ,III  Is LndU
to improve initial information and education activities and campaigns, and other public
awareness activities.
*      The micro-credit component was successful, though the overhead costs were relatively
expensive, and it needs to be expanded through the use of cost-effective local NGOs.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/inplementing agenca:
The following is the text of a letter dated May 7, 2002 from the Prime Minister.
"Let me express our appreciation to the World Bank for the support extended to allocate
funds for the implementation of the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project and joint undertaking of the
Project itseylin Tajikistan.
16



HLlavinlg thoroughly familiarized ourselves with the impleme.ntation. Comrpletion Report,
we want to underline that this project was amnong thefirst investment projects in the Republic of
Tajikistan tnat receivedjinanciai support jrom tne Worla Bank. Despite the jact tnai the project
preparation process and project flexibility envisaged in project components has been carried out
by the World Bank at a high level and in fuii compliance with the priorities of thre Tajik
Government and guiding principles of the World Bank, several shortcomings and mistakes have
been discovered during the course of project implementation which slowed down the pace of
implementation of some of the coinponents and affected performance. We consider the following
as the main reasons for this: lack of capacity within TASIF and poor financial management of the
Project. During the implementation of the project, TASIF was faced with serious problems that
have been successfully resolved by the country and the World Bank management.
Taking into account that the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project was one of the first
investment nrniect.v iointlv imnlemented with the World Bank and lack of exnerienoe tn implement
these kind of projects, the Government of Tajikistan gives satisfactory assessment of the project
imnnlm,na,intin"/ as a whonle startina, from nrniDot nrepnnrtiodn and  mption  f the nrn;,io, and
endorses all efforts on part of the World Bank to complete the above Project."
(b) Cofinianciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The fnllewuina it thts tt't tf ni Pmnil rilterd Mnu 7 9009 frnm th- Aon Kh:,n Fthiinintinn
"TrASI vvr'-a ko,'d a,,d i,rp-rta,.t i,.oai. ---  E-rl4 Ba,.k- f ----c,. ;-- us it. brouht
NGOs into the program, by financing critical aspects of their poverty alleviation projects while at
iWe same tiime seking o buil a lUcul lafulftiurl fthut couil leuu ouiaul chua,ge. in grnrua rhigh
marks must be given to the Bank and the Government for designing such a program, at a time
when Tajikistan was new to World Bank rules and procedures and still emergingjfrom a daficuit
period of civil conflict. Overall AKF/MSDSP experience was good. Despite occasional delays in
Jundingfrom TASIF, the contribution oj $70),U00 resulted in the construction and rehabilitation
of 52 irrigation channels, which in turn has created sustainable farming on some 2,000 hectares
of land for some of the poorest farmers in the country. Village Organizations initiated and
supported by AKF/MSDSP have also benefited from direct TASIF support which shows the
growing capabilities of TASIF as well as the Village Organizations themselves. We are pleased
to see that many of the difficulties faced in the first phase of the program are being resolved and
the TASIF willform part of the Bank's continuing Poverty Alleviation Program. If well-governed
and managed, TASIF could provide a much needed leadership role in the formation of civil
society in Tajikistan as well as supporting a better interface between government and civil society
from its untniqe position of one foot in hbth c'ampnns"
T1.e following is an extact fro.. a 14-page report sent to the Wor1l -_ nk  -- Save T1, a
Children Fund (UK) on May 29, 2002. The extract consists of the opening section and the
cnI uS - -- u 1   .
"A Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP) was imnpiementea by SrC- UK over a two-year
period, fromn August 1997 till July 31" 1999, in Aini, Vahsh, Penjikent, Dushanbe and Shaartuz
Districts of the Republic of Tajikistan.
17



T77is project was a sub component of the overall Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project of the
Government of Tajikistan and the World Bank. Apart from SC- UK other INGOs namely SC-US
and the Aga Khan Foundation (AKF) participated in the PPAP. T7he PPAP was coordinated by
Taiikistan Social Investment Fund (TASIF). T7he overall budget of the PPAP was $ 12 million.
7The Propram of Sunnort to Female-Heandd 11nusohnlds was involved in the nrovisinn of
agricultural assets and strengthen the capacity of social services to provide some 3, 700 female-
headed households (PFHH,) with access to and ounership of agricultural assets (such as
livestock, seed and tools) as well as technical advice. Approximately 2,100 of the female-headed
Louse'.o.'ds where -- 'akshL  -4 d  1A 600 i,_ 4n# Sour othe              ;--it.  h  rgrma'oi .c..uded
itJL  Is  9&t.)  YVIt  &F ill unall31,  Uri"  I  VU,UI   CFO J(JL4   Ulr5ic   Ugag1 5(4.  1 S  i(5  J l  uLI  mL( "ULL4SC
provision of information to clients on their legal rights, existing social services and assistance
programs.
l ne Program of Support to Female-Headed Househoids (projected, i.0 mitlion; actual,
$0.9 million) was highly successful. A total of 3,700 female-headed households received
agricultural assistance and 23 schools and 2 kindergartens were supported with income
generation projects.  The program was successful in reaching the poor and vulnerable
households and communities, and community participation was particularly high.  T7he
experience of this program led to the TASIF reviewing its own strategies for developing the
sustainability of micro-projects, and in cooperating with local government authorities...
Conclusions
The PPAP was designed as a very ambitious project which underestimated program
develonmnent and research reauired to achieve high level nf institutional development at central
and local level. It had great potential in the experience of INGOs in the country and for its
ronnortunih) i eto cf)wich rnt7nhnorntirn" iv;lh Fontr-l1n rs 
}>r   -   --.          -- ... . _.. sa.5  .nW
The project was implemented under the pressure of many expectations from different partners,
which limited opportunities to understand current social policy of the country and WB policy
assistance for the social systems.
Some open questions remain: How far are Tajikistan and WB open to let NGOs
participate in the policy dialogue? How much does Tajikistan and WB count on international
NGOs to implement poverty alleviation interventions? How could rights based programming be
experimented in working with WB and the local government? How much are other INGOs
interested in developing resources to undertake research for policy development?"
The Save The Children Federation (US) was invited to send comments, but none were
received.
10. Additional Information
18



Annex 1. Key Performance indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:      1                                l
Indicator/Matrix                 Proiected in last PSRI                    Actual/Latest Estimate
|Componentl1. Scaling up ofPoverty  |ll
I Alleviation Proarams               1                                I 1
A. Shelter and Housse Rehabiliration  Unsatisfactory as of end Dec.   Unsatisfactory, despite recent improvement in
Progranm                             2001                            implementation with final partnership with Shelter Now
intemationa; .
B. Micro-credit Program             _                              T_I
Satisfactorily met as of end Dec.  I
and the vulnerable non-poor. However, some concerns
2001.                           regarding the sustainability of the program and the Sitorai
Najot have arisen. The SN now has some major financial
management problems, and its Director has recently
resigned and a new financial manager has been annointed
C Program of Stipport to Female-
Highly satisfactorily met as of end  Highly satisfactory. The program was successful in
reaching the poor and vulnerable households and
Dre 200                          communities, and community participation was
particularly high. The experience of this program led to
the TASIF reviewing its own stratezies for developing the
sustainability of micro-projects, and in cooperating with
local government authorities.
D Agrictiltural Reforrtl Program   lll
Highly satisfactorily met as of end  Highly satisfactory. The results were increases in  .
Dec. 2001   ~ ~ ~  ~~to7imilittil vipirkd of Rn-1 00 n rrent fnr then mriam-
the canals. The level of cooperation between the-
Mountain Societies Development Support Program and
lthe TASiF was high, and cooperation between tne TASiF-
and the MSDSP led to the initiation of the TASIF pilot
l _______________________________   l  ___________________________   |        micro-projects  in  GBAO  in  the  period  1999-2001.
| Component 2: Tajikistan Social
Investment Fund (TASIF1
A. Development of TASIF            j Unsatisfactorily met as of end   Unsatisfactory. However, despite the serious problems of
Dec. 2001                     I financial mismanagement, the irresponsibility of some
}                  }                                S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~stafi- rnanagement weakriess, and' hig,, stftuli- .uover, the -
latest NSIFT management improvements suggest that the
TASIF/NSIFT has grown to be a major poverty alleviation
organization in Tajikistan; and that there has been a
renewed effort to train staff and develop the organization's
I                  I                                I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~insti-tioinal capacity.I
B. Micro-projects                  | Satisfactonly met as of end Dec.  Satisfactory. Despite the project slowdown in Years 2000
2001                             and 2001, more micro-projects were implemented, and
more beneficiaries were successfully reached, than
originally anticipated. The technical quality of the micro-
projects is generally sound, though sustainability remains
l __________________________        l  _______________|_______           an  important issue  for future  follow-up.
19



Output Indicators:                     |      _      .    _|
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR'                  ActuaVLatest Estimate
Component 1. Scaling up of Poverty
A1_evi_ation Progr_rams1
A. SlIelter and House Rehabilitation
Program                                              .
1. the quantity of shelter improved as a  Unsatisfactory as of end Dec.  Some housing was completed (total 706 houses for
result of the project and the number of   2001                          5,500 beneficiaries) by TASIF, although significantly
households benefitina. in nrnnortion to the                             lower numbers than nredicted when SCF-US was
overall identified need;                                                supposed to implement fully this project. Shelter Now
2. the inclusion of poor and vulnerable                                 Intemational (SNI) and TASIF then jointly built
categories of nousehoids as beneficiaries;                              another 56 houses in Kabodien region, foliowed by 30v
3. the adoption of tile technology.                                     more in Khatlon area.
B. Mi.^ro-credit Program
I. the active loan portfolio, comprising the  Satisfactonly met as of end  30,182 loans were made to over 8,604 clients; SN
nimher nfh npfi,cin,ies thp Innn vnhlme   Der inl                       maintained the lnweci avernae tnan hnlanre in
and the repayment rates, indicating the                                 Tajikistan; impressive level of portfolio quality
extent to which poor women are able to                                  consistently maintained.
access the benefitj
2. the change in household incomes as a
result of the project;
3. the creation of productive micro-
enterpnses.
_   tJu,guitn uJ ouppur/ lu remtO u-M
Haou sell olds
I . the number of parolcipang households;  Highly satisfactorily met as of  Highly satisfactory. 3,700 female-headed households
2. household incomes                      end Dec. 2001              | received agricultural assistance.
3. food productivity                                                 l
landevelopment potential (length of   Highly satisfactorily met as of  Highly satisfactory. The component financed 52
channels constructed and potential        end Dec 2001                  canals, and reclaimed 2,000 hectares of land for
command area realized;                                                  agricultural production.
2. actual land development (number of
hectares develoned for cultivation, number
of households benefiting;
3. actual increase in food production and
productivity by family and unit area.  l                             l
Component 2: Tajildstan Social
_ Investment Fund (TASIF)                l
A. Development of TASIF                   | Unsatisfactoly metasofend   |Unsatisfactory. However, at the end of the project, 
Dec. 2001                     there was a major effort made to improve the
(managementoft.heAClurkft cr C.1.--i
appointment of a new Executive Director in early Year
2002. A new Regulation on TASIF was approved; a
new Board was formed; a new TASIF structure was
developed and approved; and the TASIF was renamed
I as NSIFT (National Social Inve,tment Fund of
Tajikistan). The NSIFT Board then approved a training
program for the staff that, inter alia, includes training in
financial management, procurement, management
information system, Social Investment Fund procedures
I and development, and community-based develoDment.
These training activities are under way The NSIFT
management has made some key promotions among its
senior staf, and is cuti-eELt:y rutitiuttg the selectio iI
Bl Micro-projects                      t Satisfactorily met as of end   process for new staff.
| B. Micro-projects                    | Satisfactorily met as of end  I lmplementation of the micro-projects is considered to
|  | Dec. 2001              | be satisfactory. 184 projects covering approximately
l ___________________________________    l  Dec.  2001                 j  600,000  people  were  im plem ented.
End of p,ojec2.
20



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    [ Actual/Latest  Percentage of
___I  Estimate        Estimate       Avoraisal
Project Cost By Component                US$ million      US$ million   _    _   _
1. Scalina-un of Existina Povertv Alleviation Proarams  T  7F5n   r        560          74 7
of NGOs. Total
1a.hetr anr rnd House Pphabilitation Program. Tota!       3.20             28           87.
1.a.1.  SC/US                               _____________3.20        1.90          59.4
1a., TAF_                                               _   _ n_n           no           nn
.b. Micro-credit Program                                   1.0              1.1         110.0
-c Program o,' supor to,eml-eaded househols                4 1.0           f% 0.        nf 900
II -'%"31 Ul OUPjUiIL LU IWI I dIV-I I ~U   U  It IU I aiuI  1.1.  4    .V  U4.
1.d. Agricultural Reform Program                           0.7              0.7         100.0
1 .e. ruture Spunsored Programs                            I.               0.V          V.0 
Z. Creation OT ane I ajlKistan :ociai investmen -una       4.Z                    4     1bt.
2.a. Institutional Development of TASIF                    1.5              2.1         140.0
I 2.b. TASIF Micro-projects                                 2.5    1         4.1   1     164.0
2.c. Integrated Evaluation of PPAP                         0.1              0.2   .     200.0
[ 2.d. Audit of thePPAP                           I         0.1    |         0.2   4     142.9
SDRs/USD rates difference loss                   |                          0.3    _         _
USD/TJ Somoni rates difference loss                               I         0.2                  j
I TA* _I  I  A  r,A*                            I CU4      7^ IUC%  L     O___________  L.I  I  4  U.^.0 ^. I
Pyical Contingencies                                      0.7              0.0          0.0
Total Project Costs                  12.70           12.70          99.7
Total Financing Required                  12.70    J      12.70    |
21



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category          ICB              NCB           Other2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00             0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
I __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __(0OOn                 (n              m { or  4      (0o n   Io    (o0oo
_2. Goods                 |_0.00           |_     0.00_    |     0.00     |      0.00     |    0.00 
I2 Goods  IA     r     mn I (A         AArn nm        Innn      I   m'i nn
f3. Services               |      (0 00     |     0 00      |     0000     1
4. Operating Cost                0.00             0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.0V)          k.u  v)         (O. u)         k (U.UU)       (U  W)
Total                          0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00 ?         .00 
I__________________I________     (O.w0)     I     (0.00)    I    (0.00)    1     (0.00)    1   (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
r              |                |   ~~~~~~~~Procurement |Method'
Expenditure Category   I       ;CB      1    PoCu      n   M     ithid I      N.B.r.   I Toial Cost
1. Works                  |      0.00              3.43            1.13          0.00          4.56
°U.UU)           (2.9i)       -(0.96j           (U.UU)          i (3.87)
2. Goods                          1.26             0.41            1.02           0.00         2.69
(1.26)           (0.41)           (1.02)        (0.00)       (2.69)
3. Services                      0.00              0.00            3.37           0.00         3.37
(0.00)           (0.00)           (3.37)        (0.00)       (3.37)
4. Operating Cost                0.00              0.00            1.71           0.00         1.71
0.00)     J      (0.00)          (1.36)        (0.00)    j   (1.36)
Total                  J       1.26      |      3.84      j     7.23      j    0.00         12.33
(1.26)     1     (3.32)     1     (6.71)    1   (0.00)   j   (11.29)
I/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies..
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Comnnnont             AnnrnisaiPEstimfat           A f'l~inil 2fact Petim!Xt   Percentage of Appraisal
| Bank       Govt.   | CoF.       Bank      Govt.   | CoF.    | Bank   | Govt.    CoF.
I  _  _ _ _ _  _ _   [  _ _ _  I   i _ _   I  _  I  _      I  _        I  _    _          1       1_ _     1 2
22



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Because of the emergency nature of the project the PPAP was not subject to costs and benefits
analysis (see paragraphs 4.3 and 4.4)
23



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                                               I    Performance Rating
|               ~~~~~No. of Persons and Spedciaty 
Ion      ~  1(e.g.2 Economists, 1 FMSretc.)
IMond-VVear-               Cour..      t        Q I Se ci a I !}!re.ainDvylp.n
_________________________________  ________________  ____________________________  P rogress  |  O bjective
..il-May 1996          v      ,    ^    , "^^g«u^ ... 8  Task Manager; Economist;
Tociak Scieiis; INGO'
Specialist; Micro-Project
SpCialsi Si As
IDP/Refugee Specialist;
Specialist
June 1996                             I TasK ivianager; Suciai Scieinist;
Micro-Project Specialist;
________ _______ ______  I_______ ___  ~   H L UU LIUId W M VC HIU __  _   4  j 
Specialist; Social Assessment 
July-August 1996            6         Task Manager; Social Scientisi;
Micro-Project Specialist;
Procurement; Micro-Finance
Specialist; Micro-Project
I~~                    ~     ~~~~~~~~~ I   pecianist 
September/October 1996      4       | Task Manager; Micro-Project  4
Speciaiist; Economist; Sociai
Scientist
jAppraisal/Negotiation
November 1996          I    4        1 Task Manager; Operations
| Analysts; Procurement Analyst; |
January 199-7               2         Social Fund Specialists
(Consultants)              .1.
April 1997                  2       1 Task Manager; Consultant    |    _I
ISu,pervision      
September 1997              3         Task Manager; Procurement           S             S
Specialist; Social Fund
I Specialist                     _            j
October-November 1997       1 /       International NGO Programs                  |     S
April 1998                  2         S ocial Funds (Consultants)  |      S_|           S
May-June 1998          I    2         NGO Specialist;             |                     S
S  Procurement Specialist      _              _
| September-October 1998      5       rProp-ram Team Leader;                s S           S
Task Manager;
Institutional SDecialist: Micro-
projects Specialist; Procurement
I ______________________  I __________  I  C onsultants              I               I
|   November-December           3    1    Program Team Leader;              s Ss
24



ISage of rroject Cycle     I                     I                            rerormance Rating
No. of Persons and Specialty
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)
Month/Year              Count                Specialty            Implementation  Development
Frogress    IObjective
1998                                   Task Manager;
Procurement Specialist        I
February 1999                 2        Task Manager;                         S              S
Procurement Specialist
June-July 1999                6        Task Manager;                         S              S
Program Team Leader; Micro-
finance/NGO Specialist;
Procurement Advisor; Financial
Specialist; Procurement Analyst
| November 1999           |    2        |Task Manager;
|Program Team Leader
| January-February 2000   |    4        |Task Manager;
Program Team Leader;
Financial Management
Specialist;
I ________                  I             |___  Procurement Specialist
March 2001                   5         Task Manager;
Operations Analyst;
Financial Management
Specialist;
Procurement Specialist;
____________________________  ___________ _ | D isbursem ent A nalyst    j  _             _
April 2001                   5         Task Manager;                         U       |      U
Operations Analyst;
Procurement Specialist;
Financial Management
LI                          I               Specialist
June-July 2001                         Task Manager;                                        S
Sector Manager;III
________________________     _________  _ | O perations_A nalyst          _               _   _    _
September 2001               4 4       Task Manager;                                        S
Procurement Specialist;
Financial Management
Specialist;
| Operations Analyst;
November -December                     P         TeTaskManager;
2001                    1              Program Team Leader
Operations Analyst;
Procurement Specialist;
Financial Management
Specialist;
Social Protection Specialist; Sr.
I ___________________________  I ________ I___  O nerations   A nalvst    _               _    _  _
|ICR                                        ..
ICM    Tu-mp 2002         1     A          r Tsek Manager; Prnrilremrnt I
._,_ _ ___________________ __  I ________ __ [  Specialist; Operations Analyst  |
25



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle              Actual/Latest Estimate         1
No. Staff weeks            TTUS$ ('000)' A
Identificaton/Preparation  14.80
Appraisal/Negotiation               16.80 |       l                    l
Supervision                        149.31                    178.973.001
|ICR                                 16.34|                    36,000.001
II Total                             i?9.25                    2 [  Z14,9/7.U0
$ amount includes onlyFYOO and FY01 expenses.
26



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Fl Macro policies                           1 H  I SU  I M l N Z NA
L Sector Policies                         El H   SU E M O N E NA
O Physical                                C3 H  3 SU O M O N O NA
O Financial                                l H l SU Z M O N l NA
E] Institutional Development              L H [1 SU Z M   l N Io NA
L Environmental                           L H O SU Z M OI N EJ NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction                El H 3 SU O M O N O NA
El Gender                           O H 3 SU O M O N ONA
Z Other (Please specify)            L H 3 SUE] M O N o NA
Community mobilization
L Private sector development              L H L SU E M O N O NA
El Private sector management              L H L SUE] M m    N iv  NA
l Other (please specify)                  LIH   I SU FlM m    N E NA
27



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                            E] HS [3 S OU O HU
Mi Supe.rviswin                                      F] I-S ~1F ](JFn 2HU
Z Overall                                              I HS E S [DU L    HU
6.2 Rnrrnwer perfonrmnce                             Rating
1 Preparation nr- HS? 1Ss n                                          u  - HiU
J Government implementation performance              2 HS O s N u CI1 HU
I ImnlmPntntin napgev nprfnrmnnrp                   Fn iHIS n] S s1 u F-1 HU
- Overall                        -HS E S                       [U     I HU
28



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
REPORT
"On Support to Female-Headed Households Project under the PPAP, Save Te Children/UK"
29



Annex 8. Beneficiarv Survey Results
30



Annex 9. Stakehoider Workshop Results
31



/'  Reanort Nn.:       2
Type:    ICR



